Item 1A. Risk Factors Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have made forward-looking statements in an attempt to better enable the reader to understand our future prospects and make informed judgments. By their nature, forward-looking statements are subject to numerous factors that may influence outcomes or even prevent their eventual realization. Such factors may be external to Enzon and entirely outside our control. We cannot guarantee that our assumptions and expectations will be correct. Failure of events to be achieved or of certain underlying assumptions to prove accurate could cause actual results to vary materially from past results and those anticipated or projected. We do not intend to update forward-looking statements. Certain risks and uncertainties are discussed below. It is not possible to predict or identify all such factors, however. Accordingly, you should not consider this recitation to be complete. Risks Related to Our Business If any of these risks are realized our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to service debt could be materially adversely affected. We expect to incur losses over the next several years. As of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of $302.2 million. We expect to incur losses over the next several years, including for the year ending December 31, 2009, as we expect to make significant research and development expenditures. Our ability to achieve long-term profitability will depend primarily on: • the success of our research and development programs; 24 • the continued sales of our marketed products and the products on which we receive royalties; and • our and our licensees’ ability to develop and obtain regulatory approvals for additional product candidates. Development of any successful product candidates is highly uncertain due to the extended testing and regulatory review process required before marketing clearance can be obtained and failure to develop, obtain regulatory approval and commercialize our product candidates could materially harm our business. There is a high risk of failure for pharmaceutical product candidates. Only a small minority of all research and development programs ultimately result in commercially successful drugs. We may never succeed in developing an approved drug. Further, due to the extended testing and regulatory review process required before marketing clearance can be obtained, the time periods before commercialization of any of these products are long and uncertain. Risks during development and commercialization include the possibility that: • any or all of our product candidates will be found to be ineffective; • our product candidates will have adverse side effects or will otherwise fail to receive the necessary regulatory approvals; • our product candidates may be effective but uneconomical to manufacture or market; or • our competitors may market equivalent or superior products. The risk of failure is increased for our product candidates that are based on new technologies or approaches to the development of therapeutics. For example, the LNA technology is a novel technology and there are currently no approved drugs, or even late-stage drug candidates, employing this technology. Product candidates employing these technologies may not advance to pivotal stages of product development or demonstrate clinical safety or efficacy. If we do not succeed in the development of these product candidates, or if our technologies fail to generate products, our business could be materially harmed. At the present time, the vast majority of our research and development operations are focused on the early stages of product research and development, and we are conducting or first commencing clinical trials on our product candidates. Success in preclinical testing and early clinical trials does not necessarily predict success in later clinical trials. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in later-stage clinical trials due to such factors as inconclusive results and adverse medical events, even after achieving positive results in earlier trials. If our product candidates fail in the clinical trial stage, it could materially harm our business prospects. From time to time, we may establish and announce certain development goals for our product candidates and programs; however, given the complex nature of the drug discovery and development process, it is difficult to predict accurately if and when we will achieve these goals. If we are unsuccessful in advancing our preclinical programs into clinical testing or in obtaining regulatory approval, our business prospects may be harmed. We do not expect any of the drugs resulting from our current research and development efforts to be commercially available for several years, if at all. In order to fill our pipeline of product candidates under development, we may attempt to acquire rights to products under development by other companies. The competition for the acquisition of rights to products that are viewed as viable candidates for successful development and commercialization is intense, and we will be competing for such opportunities with many companies with resources that are substantially greater than ours. As an example, we recently discontinued our Phase Ib clinical trials for our rhMBL product candidate. These trials did not produce results that would support advancing the compound to further clinical trials. 25 Our financial results are heavily dependent on the continued sales of our marketed products and the products on which we receive royalties; if revenues from these products fail to increase or materially decline, our results of operations, financial position and prospects could be materially harmed. Our results of operations are heavily dependent on the revenues we derive from the sale and marketing of our products Oncaspar, DepoCyt, Abelcet and Adagen as well as the royalty revenues we receive on the sale of PEG-INTRON, marketed by Schering-Plough. As a consequence of the significance of these products to us, stagnation or decline in the sales of one or more of them could adversely affect our operating results, financial position and prospects. Sales of our products can be affected by, among other things, competition, patient demand and manufacturing issues. We cannot assure you that Schering-Plough will continue to be successful in marketing PEG-INTRON. The amount and timing of resources dedicated by Schering-Plough to the marketing of PEG-INTRON is not within our control. Our royalty revenues will be negatively affected if sales of PEG-INTRON are limited for any reason, including if Schering-Plough cannot market PEG-INTRON as a result of manufacturing, regulatory or other issues. Sales of PEG-INTRON and Abelcet have been adversely affected by competitive products introduced into their respective markets and we have experienced in the past and may continue to experience in the future a decline in sales of Abelcet, which if not reversed, will adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Products that compete with both PEG-INTRON and Abelcet have been and potentially will be introduced by other drug manufacturers into their respective markets. Hoffmann-La Roche’s Pegasys, a competing PEGylated interferon-based combination therapy, has resulted in significant competitive pressure on PEG-INTRON sales in the U.S. and all international markets. Pegasys has taken market share away from PEG-INTRON and the overall market for PEGylated alpha-interferon for the treatment of hepatitis C has been contracting. As a result, sales of PEG-INTRON in certain markets where it competes with Pegasys and the royalties we receive on those sales have declined. We cannot assure you that Pegasys will not continue to gain market share at the expense of PEG-INTRON which could result in lower PEG- INTRON sales and lower royalties to us. While we receive a royalty on sales of Pegasys under our Nektar agreement, it is a smaller royalty than that received on sales of PEG-INTRON and our royalties on Pegasys end in October 2009. Similarly, the continued sale of newer products from Merck, Pfizer, Schering-Plough and Astellas Pharma in the antifungal market (where Abelcet competes) has negatively impacted Abelcet sales as clinicians utilize these other therapeutic agents. Pfizer and Schering-Plough have each recently obtained approval for an additional new product in the antifungal market that is expected to further increase competition. In addition, Astellas Pharma and Gilead Sciences, Inc. are currently marketing AmBisome, and Three Rivers Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is marketing Amphotec, each of which is a lipid-based version of amphotericin B, for the treatment of fungal infections. AmBisome and Amphotec each compete with Abelcet which has resulted in greater competitive pressure on Abelcet sales. During calendar year 2007, we continued to experience increasing pricing pressure with respect to Abelcet. In particular, Astellas Pharma and Gilead Sciences, Inc., have aggressively lowered the price of their product in certain regions and for certain customers in the U.S. This has resulted in the shrinkage or loss of certain of our customer accounts. While we are developing and implementing strategies to address the competitive threats facing Abelcet, we cannot assure you that we will be able to increase sales of Abelcet or prevent further decreases in Abelcet sales. If we are not successful in addressing the competitive threats, it could adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and prospects. If our contract manufacturing customers terminate their agreements with us and we fail to replace contract manufacturing for third parties, we will lose revenues and our costs of goods on our own products will increase. We utilize excess manufacturing capacity to provide contract manufacturing services for a number of third parties. This provides revenues and also allows us to spread fixed costs of our manufacturing facility across 26 those third party products in addition to our own products manufactured at that facility. If the volume of contract manufacturing services decreases, our revenues from those activities will decrease. Additionally, a greater portion of the fixed costs of our facility will be allocated to our products, which will increase the overall cost of goods on those products. Currently, we manufacture Abelcet (for sale outside of the U.S. and Canada) and Myocet, both for Cephalon. Our manufacturing agreements with Cephalon are scheduled to expire on January 1, 2010 for Myocet and November 22, 2011 for Abelcet. We also currently manufacture the injectable multivitamin MVI for Hospira. Pursuant to a notice of termination from Hospira, our manufacturing agreement with Hospira will terminate effective April 30, 2010. Other of our manufacturing agreements do not have long term commitments. If we fail to enter into new manufacturing agreements with third parties to replace agreements that terminate, our revenues, cost of goods and our overall profit margins will suffer. We will need to obtain additional financing to meet our future capital needs and our significant debt level may adversely affect our ability to do so. Failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operations. Our current development projects and marketing initiatives require substantial capital. We will continue to expend substantial resources for research and development, including costs associated with developing our product candidates and conducting clinical trials. We believe that our current cash and investments and our anticipated cash flow from operations will be adequate to satisfy our capital needs for the near future, but we will likely need to increase our cash flow from operations or obtain financing to meet our future capital needs, which we expect will be substantial. We will require substantial additional funds to conduct research activities, preclinical studies, clinical trials and other activities relating to the successful commercialization of potential products. In addition, we may seek to acquire additional products, technologies and companies, which could require substantial capital. The competitive pressures impacting PEG-INTRON and Abelcet will cause our cash flow from operations to decrease rather than increase in the future and we cannot be sure that additional funds from other sources will be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If adequate funds are unavailable from operations or additional sources of financing, we may have to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our research or development programs or one or more of our potential acquisitions of technologies or companies, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operations. We may seek to raise any necessary additional funds through equity or debt financings, collaborative arrangements with corporate partners or other sources which may be dilutive to existing stockholders. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain additional funds on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, particularly if the current macroeconomic trends continue. As of December 31, 2008, we had $270.5 million of outstanding indebtedness related to our outstanding that are due in 2013 convertible notes. Our significant debt level could limit our ability to obtain additional financing and could have other important negative consequences, including: • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our expected cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of our expected cash flow available for other purposes; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we compete; • placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage relative to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have better access to capital resources; and • making it difficult or impossible for us to pay the principal amount of the 2013 notes at maturity, or the repurchase price of the 2013 notes upon a fundamental change, including accrued and unpaid interest. 27 We depend on our collaborative partners; if we lose our collaborative partners or they do not apply adequate resources to our collaborations, our product development and financial performance may suffer. We rely and will depend heavily in the future on collaborations with partners, primarily pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, for one or more of the research, development, manufacturing, marketing and other commercialization activities relating to our product candidates. In particular, we depend on Santaris for development of additional LNA compounds. If we lose our collaborative partners, or if they do not apply adequate resources to our collaborations, our product development and financial performance may suffer. The amount and timing of resources dedicated by our collaborators to their collaborations with us are not within our control. If any collaborator breaches or terminates its agreements with us or fails to conduct its collaborative activities in a timely manner, the commercialization of our product candidates could be slowed or blocked completely. For example, Santaris can terminate its agreement with respect to a specific LNA compound provided by Santaris if we do not achieve certain development milestones for that compound. In addition, our collaborative partners may change their strategic focus, pursue alternative technologies or develop alternative products as a means for developing treatments for the diseases targeted by these collaborative programs and these could compete with products we are developing. Also, due to the recent tightening of global credit, there may be a disruption or delay in the performance of our collaborators’ commitments. If such third parties are unable to satisfy their commitments to us, our business would be adversely affected. Further, our collaborations may not be successful. Disputes may arise between us and our collaborators as to a variety of matters, including financing obligations under our agreements and ownership of intellectual property rights. These disputes may be both expensive and time-consuming and may result in delays in the development and commercialization of products. If any of the product candidates that we are commercializing with collaborators are delayed or blocked from entering the market or we experience increased costs as a result of our relationship with our collaborators, our financial performance could be adversely affected. We purchase some of the compounds utilized in our products from a single source or a limited group of suppliers, and the partial or complete loss of one of these suppliers could cause production delays and a substantial loss of revenues. We purchase the unmodified compounds and bulk PEGs utilized in our approved products and products under development from outside suppliers. In some cases, we have a limited number of suppliers. Moreover, in some cases, we have no supply agreement. Specifically, our ability to obtain compounds for our respective products may be limited by the following factors. Oncaspar. We have supply agreements with Ovation Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Kyowa Hakko to produce the unmodified forms of L-asparaginase, the active ingredient used in the production of Oncaspar. Our agreement with Ovation Pharmaceuticals, Inc. provides for Ovation to supply L-asparaginase to us through 2009. We have committed to effectuate a technology transfer of the cell line and manufacturing of the L-asparaginase to our own supplier by December 31, 2009, and then supply L-asparaginase back to Ovation during the years 2010-2012. It is possible that we will not be able to successfully complete the technology transfer by the deadline or at all, due to technological, manufacturing, regulatory, clinical development or other issues. If we are unable to effectuate the technology transfer by the deadline, we may not be able to manufacture or sell Oncaspar, which would result in a substantial loss of revenues and damage to our business. Also, if we are unable to supply L-asparaginase back to Ovation during the years 2010-2012, we could be required to pay damages to Ovation in the amounts of $5.0 million in 2010, $10.0 million in 2011 and $15.0 million in 2012 in connection with a breach of our obligation to supply L-asparaginase to them. Adagen. We purchase the unmodified adenosine deaminase enzyme used in the manufacture of Adagen from Roche Diagnostics. Roche Diagnostics, which is based in Germany, is the only FDA-approved supplier of the adenosine deaminase enzyme, or ADA, used in Adagen. During 2002, we obtained FDA approval of the use of the ADA enzyme obtained from bovine intestines from cattle of New Zealand origin. New Zealand currently certifies that its cattle are bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE or mad cow disease) free. Beginning in September 2002, the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) required all animal-sourced materials shipped to the U.S. from any European country to contain a veterinary certificate that the product is BSE free, regardless 28 of the country of origin. Our ADA supply agreement with Roche Diagnostics terminated in 2004 although we are still receiving our supply of ADA from them. We are currently developing ADA using a recombinant source as an alternative to the naturally-derived bovine product. This is a difficult and expensive undertaking as to which success cannot be assured. Roche Diagnostics continues to supply us with our requirements of ADA and indicated when they terminated the supply agreement that they will continue to do so for a reasonable period of time as we work to develop another source of ADA. We may have little or no notice if Roche Diagnostics decides to stop supplying us with ADA. If we are unable to secure an alternative source of ADA before Roche Diagnostics discontinues supplying the material to us, may experience inventory shortages and potentially a period of product unavailability or a long-term inability to produce Adagen. If this occurs, it will have a measurable (and potentially material) negative impact on our business and results of operations and it could potentially result in significant reputational harm and regulatory difficulties. Abelcet. In the manufacture of Abelcet, we combine amphotericin B with two phospholipids to produce an injectable lipid complex formulation of amphotericin B. We currently have a long-term supply agreement for amphotericin B,with Axellia. Additionally, we are seeking to qualify at least one additional source of supply of amphotericin B. We might not be able to obtain production and regulatory approval of Abelcet incorporating the alternative amphotericin B. In addition, due to recent tightening of global credit, there may be disruption or delay in the performance of our suppliers. If we experience a delay in obtaining or are unable to obtain any compound for any of the products discussed above on reasonable terms, or at all, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. No assurance can be given that in any case alternative suppliers with appropriate regulatory authorizations could be readily identified if necessary. If we experience delays in obtaining or are unable to obtain any such compounds on reasonable terms, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are required to obtain an alternate source for an unmodified compound utilized in a product, the FDA and relevant foreign regulatory agencies will likely require that we perform additional testing to demonstrate that the alternate material is biologically and chemically equivalent to the unmodified compound previously used in our clinical trials. This testing could delay or stop development of a product, limit commercial sales of an approved product and cause us to incur significant additional expenses. If we are unable to demonstrate that the alternate material is chemically and biologically equivalent to the previously used unmodified compound, we will likely be required to repeat some or all of the preclinical and clinical trials conducted for the compound. The marketing of an FDA approved drug could be disrupted while such tests are conducted. Even if the alternate material is shown to be chemically and biologically equivalent to the previously used compound, the FDA or relevant foreign regulatory agency may require that we conduct additional clinical trials with the alternate material. Our product candidates must undergo extensive clinical testing, the results of which are highly uncertain and could substantially delay or prevent us from obtaining regulatory approval. Before we can market a product, we must obtain regulatory approval for a product candidate. To obtain regulatory approval, we must undertake extensive clinical testing in humans to demonstrate safety and efficacy to the satisfaction of the FDA and similar foreign regulatory authorities for each indication. The pre-clinical testing and clinical trials for any product candidates that we develop must comply with the regulations of numerous federal, state and local government authorities in the U.S., principally the FDA, and those of similar agencies in other countries. Clinical trials of new product candidates sufficient to obtain regulatory marketing approval are expensive and take years to complete. Even though they consume substantial resources, the outcome of these trials is highly uncertain. Safety and efficacy results from pre-clinical studies involving animals and other models and from early clinical trials are often not accurate indicators of results of later-stage clinical trials that involve larger human populations, and, moreover, may not always be representative of results obtained while marketing an approved drug, particularly with regard to safety. In addition, we may suffer significant setbacks in clinical trials, even after achieving promising results in earlier trials. For example, Phase II activity may not replicate Phase I results or 29 Phase III efficacy data may not replicate Phase II data. Any adverse results from studies, including clinical trials, could have a negative effect on our ability to obtain the approval of the FDA or other regulatory agencies. Unfavorable results of clinical trials conducted by our competitors or other biotechnology companies could also adversely affect our ability to gain regulatory approval of our product candidates by increasing government examination and complexity of clinical trials. Government and public concerns over safety issues associated with pharmaceutical and biological products could potentially result in termination of clinical trials on entire classes of drug candidates, lengthen the trial process for product categories, increase legal and production costs relating to certain drug categories, and/or expand the safety labeling for approved products. As an example, we recently discontinued our Phase Ib clinical trials for our rhMBL product candidate. These trials did not produce results that would support advancing the compound to further clinical trials. Clinical development of any product candidate that we decide to take into clinical trials may be delayed or prevented at any time for some or all of the following reasons: • negative or ambiguous results regarding the efficacy of the product candidate; • undesirable side effects that delay or extend the trials or make the product candidate not medically or commercially viable; • inability to recruit and qualify a sufficient number of patients for our trials; • regulatory delays or other regulatory actions, including changes in regulatory requirements; • difficulties in obtaining sufficient quantities of the product candidate manufactured under current good manufacturing practices; • delays, suspension or termination of the trials imposed by us, an independent institutional review board for a clinical trial site, or clinical holds placed upon the trials by the FDA; and • our failure to obtain adequate financial resources to fund these trials. We depend on third parties to conduct the clinical trials for our product candidates and any failure of those parties to fulfill their obligations could harm our development and commercialization plans. We depend on independent clinical investigators, contract research organizations, academic institutions and other third-party service providers to conduct clinical trials for our product candidates. Though we rely heavily on these parties for successful execution of our clinical trials, we are ultimately responsible for the results of their activities and many aspects of their activities are beyond our control. For example, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocols for the trial, but the independent clinical investigators may prioritize other projects over ours or may fail to timely communicate issues regarding our products to us. Third parties may not complete activities on schedule or may not conduct our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our stated protocols. The early termination of any of our clinical trial arrangements, the failure of third parties to comply with the regulations and requirements governing clinical trials or our reliance on results of trials that we have not directly conducted or monitored could hinder or delay the development, approval and commercialization of our product candidates and would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. If our clinical trials are not successful, if we experience significant delays in these trials, or if we do not complete our clinical trials, we may not be able to commercialize our product candidates, which would materially harm our business. We depend on patents and proprietary rights, which may offer only limited protection against potential infringement and the development by our competitors of competitive products. The U.S. and foreign patents upon which our original PEG technology was based have expired. The pharmaceutical industry places considerable importance on obtaining patent and trade secret protection for new technologies, products and processes. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to develop and maintain a strong patent position for our products and technologies both in the U.S. and in other countries. If we are unable to obtain and enforce patent protection for our products and product candidates, our business 30 could be materially harmed. We have an extensive portfolio of issued U.S. patents and filed applications, many of which have foreign counterparts. These patents, if extensions are not granted, are expected to expire beginning in 2009 through 2028. Under our license agreements, we have exclusively licensed patents related to our commercial and development products. Of the patents owned or exclusively licensed by us, seven relate to PEG-INTRON, 17 relate to Abelcet and three relate to DepoCyt. Our products, Oncaspar and Adagen, are not covered by any unexpired patents. We have exclusively licensed patents from Santaris related to our HIF-1 alpha antagonist and our other LNA compounds in development. Although we believe that our patents provide certain protection from competition, we cannot assure you that such patents will be of substantial protection or commercial benefit to us, will afford us adequate protection from competing products, or will not be challenged or declared invalid. In addition, we cannot assure you that additional U.S. patents or foreign patent equivalents will be issued to us. Issued patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. In addition, court decisions may introduce uncertainty in the enforceability or scope of patents owned by biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. The legal systems of certain countries do not favor the aggressive enforcement of patents, and the laws of foreign countries may not protect our rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. Therefore, enforceability or scope of our patents in the U.S. or in foreign countries cannot be predicted with certainty, and, as a result, any patents that we own or license may not provide sufficient protection against competitors. We may not be able to obtain or maintain patent protection for our pending patent applications, those we may file in the future, or those we may license from third parties. While we believe that our patent rights are enforceable, we cannot assure you that any patents that we have issued, that we may issue or that may be licensed to us will be enforceable or valid or will not expire prior to the commercialization of our product candidates, thus allowing others to more effectively compete with us. Therefore, any patents that we own or license may not adequately protect our product candidates or our future products. If we are not able to protect our patent positions, our business could be materially harmed. We may become aware that certain organizations are engaging in activities that infringe certain of our patents, including our PEG and single-chain antibody, or SCA, technology patents. We cannot assure you that we will be able to enforce our patents and other rights against such organizations. Legal or administrative proceedings may be necessary to defend against claims of infringement or to enforce our intellectual property rights. We have in the past been involved in patent litigation and other proceedings and we may likely become involved in additional patent litigation or proceedings in the future. If we become involved in any such litigation or proceeding, irrespective of the outcome, we may incur substantial costs, the efforts of our technical and management personnel may be diverted, and such disputes could substantially delay or prevent our product development or commercialization activities, which could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Blocking patents or claims of infringement may stop or delay the development of our proprietary products. Other entities may have or obtain proprietary rights that could impair our competitive position. Our commercial success depends in part on avoiding claims of infringement of the patents or proprietary rights of such third parties. Although we investigate the patent protection surrounding our technology and product candidates, there are numerous patents, each with multiple claims, which makes it difficult to uncover and interpret the extent of patent protection which can lead to uncertainty about our freedom to operate. It is possible that we will not be aware of issued patents or pending patent applications that are relevant to our product candidates because our searches do not find them or because they are not yet publicly available. Our interpretation of patents could be challenged, leading to litigation, and we could face claims of infringement of rights of which we are unaware. There have been significant litigation and interferences proceedings regarding patent rights, and the patent situation regarding particular products is often complex and uncertain. As we proceed with the development of our product candidates, we may face uncertainty and litigation could result, which could lead to liability for damages, prevent our development and commercialization efforts and divert resources from our business strategy. 31 Third parties from time to time may assert that we are infringing their patents, trade secrets, or know-how. In addition, our technology may infringe patents that may issue in the future to third parties. We could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves and our partners against any such claims. Furthermore, parties making such claims may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief, which could effectively block our ability or our partners’ ability to further develop or commercialize some or all of our products or technology in the U.S. and abroad, and could result in the award of substantial damages. If we are found to infringe, we may be required to obtain one or more licenses from third parties or be unable to proceed. We may not be able to obtain such licenses at a reasonable cost, if at all. Defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any such required license could have a material adverse effect on us. We may have to develop or license alternative technologies if we are unable to maintain or obtain key technology from third parties. We have licensed patents and patent applications from Santaris. Some of our proprietary rights have been licensed to us under agreements that have performance requirements or other contingencies. The failure to comply with these provisions could lead to termination or modifications of our rights to these licenses. Additionally, we may need to obtain additional licenses to patents or other proprietary rights from other parties to facilitate development of our proprietary technology base. The ownership of patents exclusively licensed to us may be subject to challenge if inventorship was not adequately investigated and represented. If our existing licenses are terminated or if we are unable to obtain such additional licenses on acceptable terms, our ability to perform our own research and development and to comply with our obligations under our collaborative agreements may be delayed while we seek to develop or license alternative technologies. The patents upon which our original PEG technology was based have expired and, as a result, the scope of our patent protection is narrower. The U.S and corresponding foreign patents upon which our original PEG technology was based expired in 1996. Without that patent protection, other parties are permitted to make, use or sell products covered by the claims of those patents, subject to other patents, including those which we hold. We have obtained numerous patents with claims covering improved methods of attaching or linking PEG to therapeutic compounds. However, these patents may not enable us to prevent competition or competitors may develop alternative methods of attaching PEG to compounds potentially resulting in competitive products outside the protection that may be afforded by our patents. We are aware that others have also filed patent applications and have been granted patents in the U.S. and other countries with respect to the application of PEG to proteins and other compounds. We or our suppliers could experience delays or difficulties in manufacturing, including problems complying with the FDA’s regulations for manufacturing our products. These problems could materially harm our business. Manufacturers of drugs must comply with current cGMP regulations, which include quality control and quality assurance requirements as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation. Manufacturing facilities are subject to ongoing periodic inspection by the FDA and corresponding state agencies, including unannounced inspections of our commercial manufacturing facilities. We or our present or future suppliers may be unable to comply with the applicable cGMP regulations and other FDA regulatory requirements. Adagen and Oncaspar, which we manufacture, use our earlier PEG technology which tends to be less stable than the PEG technology used in PEG-INTRON and our products under development. Due, in part, to the drawbacks in the earlier technologies we have had and may continue to have manufacturing problems with these products. We continue to face manufacturing and stability issues with Oncaspar. To date, we have been unable to identify the cause of these issues. If we continue to have these issues with Oncaspar, we may have a disruption in our ability to manufacture Oncaspar. Manufacturing and stability problems have required us to implement voluntary recalls or market withdrawals for certain batches of Oncaspar periodically since 2002 and as recently 32 as the fourth quarter of 2006. Mandatory recalls can also take place if regulators or courts require them, even if we believe our products are safe and effective. Recalls result in lost sales of the recalled products themselves and can result in further lost sales while replacement products are manufactured or due to customer dissatisfaction. We cannot assure you that future product recalls or market withdrawals will not materially adversely affect our business, our financial condition, results of operations or our reputation and relationships with our customers. Disruption in supply or manufacturing difficulties relating to Oncaspar could cause a disruption in our ability to market and sell Oncaspar and result in a substantial loss of revenues. The FDA and the MHRA, the British equivalent of the FDA, have conducted periodic inspections of our manufacturing facilities related to Abelcet, Oncaspar and Adagen. Following certain of these inspections, the FDA has issued Form 483 reports citing deviations from cGMP, the most recent of which was issued in July 2008 for our Indianapolis facility. We have worked with the FDA to resolve the matters identified therein. We are aware that the FDA has conducted inspections of certain of the manufacturing facilities of Schering-Plough, who manufactures PEG-INTRON, and Merck, who manufactures the L-asparaginase that we receive from Ovation Pharmaceuticals for use in the production of Oncaspar, and those inspections have resulted in the issuance of Forms 483 citing deviations from cGMP. If we or our partners face additional manufacturing problems in the future or if we or our licensees are unable to satisfactorily resolve current or future manufacturing problems, the FDA could require us or our licensees to discontinue the distribution of our products or to delay continuation of clinical trials. Our arrangements with third-party manufacturers involve significant financial commitments and costs that may be incurred if we terminate or delay manufacturing. We depend on the manufacturing capabilities of third parties to manufacture drug substances used in certain of our products. Our contractual arrangements with these manufacturers require us to commit to planned manufacturing activities. If we were to terminate or delay these activities, we may be required to pay termination fees or other delay-related charges and these amounts may be significant. The need to terminate or delay planned manufacturing activities could arise from a delay in a clinical trial or regulatory approval, an inability to transfer our technology and complex processes to the third-party manufacturers or other reasons that may be beyond our control. We may be subject to a variety of types of product liability or other claims based on allegations that the use of our products has resulted in adverse effects, whether by participants in our clinical trials or by patients using our products, and our insurance may not cover all product liability or other claims. We may face liability claims related to the use or misuse of our products and product candidates in clinical trials or in commercial use. Liability claims may be expensive to defend and may result in large judgments against us. Although we maintain product liability insurance for claims arising from the use of our products in clinical trials prior to FDA approval and for claims arising from the use of our products after FDA approval at levels that we believe are appropriate, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our existing insurance coverage or obtain additional coverage on commercially reasonable terms for the use of our other products in the future. Also, our insurance coverage and our resources may not be sufficient to satisfy any liability resulting from product liability claims, and a product liability claim could materially harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. Generally, our clinical trials are conducted in patients with serious life-threatening diseases for whom conventional treatments have been unsuccessful, and, during the course of treatment, these patients could suffer adverse medical effects or die for reasons that may or may not be related to our products. Any of these events could result in a claim of liability. Any such claims against us, regardless of their merit, could result in significant costs to defend or awards against us that could materially harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. 33 We depend on key personnel and may not be able to retain these employees or recruit additional qualified personnel, which would harm our business. Because of the specialized scientific nature of our business, we are highly dependent upon qualified scientific, technical and managerial personnel, including our Chief Executive Officer. There is intense competition for qualified personnel in the pharmaceutical field. Therefore, we may not be able to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business. Although we have employment agreements with our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Scientific Officer, our ability to continue to retain such officers, as well as other senior executives or key managers is not assured. The loss of the services of one or a combination of our senior executives, particularly our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Scientific Officer, as well as the failure to recruit additional key scientific, technical and managerial personnel in a timely manner, would have an adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to Our Industry Significant competition for our technology platforms and product candidates could make our technologies or product candidates obsolete or uncompetitive, which would negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. The biopharmaceutical industry is characterized by extensive research and development effort, and rapid technological change. Our future success will depend on our ability to maintain a competitive position with respect to technological advances. Rapid technological development by others may result in our product candidates and technologies becoming obsolete. We face intense competition from established biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, as well as academic and research institutions that are pursuing competing technologies and products. We know that competitors are developing or manufacturing various platform technologies and products that are used for the prevention, diagnosis or treatment of diseases that we have targeted for product development. For example, PEG INTRON faces increased competition from Hoffman La-Roche’s Pegasys, Abelcet faces increased competition from Astellas Pharma and Gilead Pharmaceuticals’ AmBisome and Three Rivers Pharmaceuticals’ Amphotec. DepoCyt competes with the generic drugs, cytarabine and methotrexate, and Oncaspar competes with ELSPAR® (asparaginase). In November 2006, the FDA accepted an IND for OPiSA (France) for its product, Erwinase (Erwinia chryanthemi L-asparaginase). Erwinase is approved in several countries outside the U.S. for treatment of ALL. Other existing and future products, therapies and technological approaches will compete directly with out products. Current and prospective competing products may provide greater therapeutic benefits for a specific problem or may offer comparable performance at a lower cost. In addition, any product candidate that we develop and that obtains regulatory approval must then compete for market acceptance and market share. Our competitors in the PEGylation technology field include The Dow Chemical Company, Nektar Pharmaceuticals, Inc., SunBio Corporation, Mountain View Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Neose Technologies, Inc., NOF Corporation and Urigen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Several other chemical, biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies may also be developing PEGylation technologies. Some of these companies license or provide the technology to other companies, while others develop the technology for internal use. Other companies are conducting research and developing products utilizing antisense technologies that compete with the LNA technology. These include Isis Pharmaceuticals Inc., Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Regulus Therapeutics LLC, Eli Lilly and Company and others. In addition, there are a number of existing therapeutic regimens designed to treat the cancers that we may target with the HIF-1 alpha antagonist. However, we are not of aware of any development of another compound that would have a mechanism similar to our HIF-1 alpha antagonist. There are a number of drugs in various stages of preclinical and clinical development from companies exploring cancer therapies or improved chemotherapeutic agents to potentially treat the same cancer indications that our PEG-SN38 may be developed to treat. Additionally, there are a number of drugs in development based on the active metabolite SN38. If these drugs are approved, they could compete directly with our PEG-SN38. These include products in development from Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Pfizer Inc., GlaxoSmithKline plc, 34 Antigenics Inc., Hoffman-La Roche Ltd., Novartis AG, Cell Therapeutics, Inc., Neopharm, Inc., Meditech Research Limited and others. Nektar Therapeutics is also developing a PEGylated form of irinotecan. Irinotecan is a pro-drug of SN38. This product candidate is currently in Phase II for colorectal cancer. Nektar commenced Phase II studies in metastatic breast, platinum-resistant ovarian, cervical, and second-line colorectal cancer in January of 2009. There are a number of existing therapeutic regimens designed to treat the cancers that we may target with the Survivin antagonist. We are aware of several companies, including Isis Pharmaceuticals/Eli Lilly, Astellas, Erimos and Aegera, that are actively working on compounds targeting Survivin. Also, we are aware that other companies provide contract manufacturing for the pharmaceutical industry, including liposomal and PEGylation services such as Bell-Moore Labs, Ben Venue and Abbott One 2 One. These companies also provide manufacturing services from preclinical to commercial. Many of our competitors have substantially greater research and development capabilities and experience and greater manufacturing, marketing and financial resources than we do. In addition, many of our competitors have much more experience than we do in pre-clinical testing and human clinical trials of new drugs, as well as in obtaining FDA and other regulatory approval. We face competition from these companies not just in product development but also in areas such as recruiting employees, acquiring technologies that might enhance our ability to commercialize products, establishing relationships with certain research and academic institutions, enrolling patients in clinical trials and seeking program partnerships and collaborations with larger pharmaceutical companies. Accordingly, our competitors may develop technologies and products that are superior to those we or our collaborators are developing and render our technologies and products or those of our collaborators obsolete and noncompetitive. If we cannot compete effectively, our business and financial performance would suffer. The regulatory approval process is highly uncertain and we will not be allowed to market products if regulatory approval has not been obtained. The marketing of pharmaceutical products in the U.S. and abroad is subject to stringent governmental regulation. The sale of any new products for use in humans in the U.S. requires the prior approval of the FDA for each new product. If our products are marketed abroad, they will also be subject to extensive regulation by foreign governments, whether or not we have obtained FDA approval for a given product and its indications. The FDA has established mandatory procedures and safety standards that apply to the clinical testing and marketing of pharmaceutical products. The FDA regulates the research, development, pre-clinical and clinical testing, manufacture, safety, effectiveness, record-keeping, reporting, labeling, storage, approval, advertising, promotion, sale, distribution, import and export of pharmaceutical and biological products. Obtaining FDA approval for a new therapeutic product may take many years and involve substantial expenditures. Compliance with these regulations can be costly, time-consuming and subject us to unanticipated delays in developing our products. Neither we nor our licensees may be able to obtain or maintain FDA or other relevant marketing approval for any of our products. There may be limitations placed on our ability to successfully market our products by the FDA or foreign regulators. Regulatory approval may: • limit the indicated uses for a product; • otherwise limit our ability to promote, sell and distribute the product; • require that we conduct costly post-marketing surveillance; and • require that we conduct ongoing post-marketing studies Material changes to an approved product, such as manufacturing changes or revised labeling, may require further regulatory review and approval. Once obtained, any approvals may be withdrawn for a number of reasons, including the later discovery of previously unknown problems with the product, such as a safety issue. If we or our third-party manufacturers fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements at any stage during the regulatory process, such noncompliance could result in: 35 • refusals or delays in the approval of applications or supplements to approved applications; • refusal of a regulatory authority, including the FDA, to review pending market approval applications or supplements to approved applications; • warning letters; • import or export restrictions; • product recalls or seizures; • injunctions; • total or partial suspension of production; • fines, civil penalties or criminal prosecutions; and • withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications or licenses. In addition, any approved products are subject to continuing regulation. Among other things, the holder of an approved biologic license application or new drug application is subject to periodic and other FDA monitoring and reporting obligations, including obligations to monitor and report adverse events and instances of the failure of a product to meet the specifications in the biologic license application or new drug application. Application holders must also submit advertising and other promotional material to the FDA and report on ongoing clinical trials. Failure to meet these post-approval requirements can result in criminal prosecution, fines or other penalties, injunctions, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, or denial or withdrawal of pre-marketing product approvals. Even if we are granted regulatory approval in one jurisdiction, we may not receive regulatory approval in another jurisdiction. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions would prevent us from marketing our products abroad. In order to market our products in the European Union and many other jurisdictions outside the U.S., we must obtain separate regulatory approvals and comply with numerous foreign regulatory requirements. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing. The time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval. We may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or by the FDA. We may not be able to file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in any market. The failure to obtain these approvals could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we or our licensees fail to obtain or maintain requisite governmental approvals or fail to obtain or maintain approvals of the scope requested, it will delay or preclude us or our licensees or marketing partners from marketing our products. It could also limit the commercial use of our products. Any such failure or limitation may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Once approved, our products may not be accepted in the marketplace. Even if clinical trials demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our product candidates and all regulatory approvals are obtained, the commercial success of our products depends on gaining market acceptance among physicians, patients, third-party payors or the medical community. The degree of market acceptance will depend on many factors, including: • the scope of regulatory approvals, including limitations or warnings contained in a product’s FDA-approved labeling; • establishment and demonstration of clinical efficacy and safety; • cost-effectiveness of our products; • alternative treatment methods and potentially competitive products; and 36 • the availability of third-party reimbursement. Market acceptance could be further limited depending on the prevalence and severity of any expected or unexpected adverse side effects associated with our product candidates. If our product candidates are approved but do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, third party payors and patients, we may never generate significant revenue from these products, and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially harmed. Our operations are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations. Our operations are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations concerning, among other things, the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of hazardous, toxic and radioactive substances and the discharge of pollutants into the air and water. Environmental permits and controls are required for some of our operations and these permits are subject to modification, renewal and revocation by the issuing authorities. If we were to become liable for an accident, or if we were to suffer an extended facility shutdown as a result of such contamination, we could incur significant costs, damages and penalties that could harm our business and exceed our resources or insurance coverage. The successful commercialization of our products and product candidates will depend on obtaining coverage and reimbursement for use of these products from third-party payors and these payors may not agree to cover or reimburse for use of our products. Our future revenues and profitability will be adversely affected if U.S. and foreign governmental, private third-party insurers and payors, and other third-party payors, including Medicare and Medicaid, do not agree to defray or reimburse the cost of our products to the patients. If these entities refuse to provide coverage and reimbursement with respect to our products or provide an insufficient level of coverage and reimbursement, our products may be too costly for many patients to afford them, and physicians may not prescribe them. In addition, the amount of reimbursement for our products may also reduce our profitability. In the U.S., there have been, and we expect will continue to be, actions and proposals to control and reduce healthcare costs. Government and other third-party payors are challenging the prices charged for healthcare products and increasingly limiting, and attempting to limit, both coverage and level of reimbursement for prescription drugs. If our products or product candidates are unable to obtain adequate coverage and reimbursement by third-party payors our ability to successfully commercialize our product candidates may be adversely impacted. Any limitation on the use of our products or any decrease in the price of our products will have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve profitability. In certain foreign countries, pricing, coverage and level of reimbursement of prescription drugs are subject to governmental control, and we may be unable to negotiate coverage, pricing, and reimbursement on terms that are favorable to us. In some foreign countries, the proposed pricing for a drug must be approved before it may be lawfully marketed. The requirements governing drug pricing vary widely from country to country. Our results of operations may suffer if we are unable to market our products in foreign countries or if coverage and reimbursement for our products in foreign countries is limited. The law or FDA policy could change and expose us to competition from “generic” or “follow-on” versions of our products, which could adversely impact our business. Under current U.S. law and FDA policy, generic versions of conventional chemical drug compounds, sometimes referred to as small molecule compounds, may be approved through an abbreviated approval process. There is no abbreviated approval process under current law for biological products approved under the Public Health Service Act through a Biologic License Application, such as monoclonal antibodies, cytokines, growth factors, enzymes, interferons and certain other proteins. However, various proposals have been made to establish an abbreviated approval process to permit approval of generic or follow-on versions of these types of biological products under U.S. law, and the FDA’s counterpart in the European Union has recently approved a number of follow-on biologicals. It is not clear whether any proposed legislation on generic or follow-on biologics will become law, or what form that law might take. However, if the law is changed or if the FDA somehow extends its existing authority in new ways, and third parties are permitted to obtain approvals of 37 versions of our biological products through an abbreviated approval mechanism, and without conducting full clinical studies of their own, it could adversely affect our business. Risks Related to Our Common Stock and Our Convertible Notes The price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile, which also may significantly affect the trading price of our convertible notes. Historically, the market price of our common stock has fluctuated over a wide range, and it is likely that the price of our common stock will continue to be volatile in the future. The market price of our common stock could be impacted due to a variety of factors, including, in addition to global and industry-wide events: • the level of revenues we generate from our sale of products and royalties we receive; • the losses we incur or the profits we generate; • the results of preclinical testing and clinical trials by us, our collaborative partners or our competitors; • announcements of technical innovations or new products by us, our collaborative partners or our competitors; • the status of corporate collaborations and supply arrangements; • regulatory approvals; • developments in patent or other proprietary rights; • public concern as to the safety and efficacy of products developed by us or others; and • litigation. In addition, due to one or more of the foregoing factors in one or more future quarters, our results of operations may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In that event, the market price of our common stock could be materially and adversely affected. Volatility in the price of our common stock may significantly affect the trading price of our convertible notes. Events with respect to our share capital could cause the shares of our common stock outstanding to increase. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the open market, or the availability of such shares for sale, could adversely affect the price of our common stock. We had approximately 45 million shares of common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2008. As of that date, the following securities that may be exercised for, or are convertible into, shares of our common stock were outstanding: • Options. Stock options to purchase 8.4 million shares of our common stock at a weighted average exercise price of approximately $11.30 per share; • 4% convertible senior notes due 2013 (the “2013 convertible notes”). Our 2013 convertible notes may be converted into 28.3 million shares of our common stock at a conversion price of $9.55 per share. • Restricted stock units. 1.8 million shares of our common stock issuable in respect of outstanding restricted stock units held by officers, employees and directors. The shares of our common stock that may be issued under the options, restricted stock units, and the 2013 convertible notes are currently registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and, therefore, those shares of common stock that may be issued will be eligible for public resale. The conversion of some or all of the convertible notes will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the notes could depress the price of our common stock. 38 Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law may make it more difficult to acquire us, even though such acquisitions may be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even though such acquisitions may be beneficial to our stockholders. These anti-takeover provisions include: • a classified board of directors whereby not all members of the board may be elected at one time; • lack of a provision for cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; • the ability of our board to authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; • advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and • limitations on who may call a special meeting of stockholders. Further, we have in place a stockholder rights plan, commonly known as a “poison pill.” The provisions described above, our stockholder rights plan and provisions of Delaware law relating to business combinations with interested stockholders may discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us. These provisions may also discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring a large portion of our securities, or initiating a tender offer, even if our stockholders might receive a premium for their shares in the acquisition over the then current market price. We also have agreements with our executive officers that provide for change of control severance benefits which provides for cash severance, restricted stock and option award vesting acceleration and other benefits in the event our employees are terminated (or, in some cases, resign for specified reasons) following an acquisition. These agreements could discourage a third party from acquiring us. The issuance of preferred stock may adversely affect rights of common stockholders. Under our certificate of incorporation, our board of directors has the authority to issue up to three million shares of “blank check” preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences and privileges of those shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to the rights of the holders of any shares of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. In addition to discouraging a takeover, as discussed above, this “blank check” preferred stock may have rights, including economic rights senior to the common stock, and, as a result, the issuance of such preferred stock could have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock. We may be unable to redeem our 2013 convertible notes upon a fundamental change. We may be unable to redeem the 2013 convertible notes in the event of a fundamental change, as defined in the related indenture. Upon a fundamental change, holders of the 2013 convertible notes may require us to redeem all or a portion of the 2013 convertible notes. If a fundamental change were to occur, we may not have enough funds to pay the redemption price for all tendered 2013 convertible notes. Any future credit agreements or other agreements relating to our indebtedness may contain similar provisions, or expressly prohibit the repurchase of the 2013 convertible notes upon a fundamental change or may provide that a fundamental change constitutes an event of default under that agreement. If a fundamental change occurs at a time when we are prohibited from purchasing or redeeming 2013 convertible notes, we could seek the consent of our lenders to redeem the 2013 convertible notes or could attempt to refinance this debt. If we do not obtain a consent, we could not purchase or redeem the 2013 convertible notes. Our failure to redeem tendered 2013 convertible notes would constitute an event of default under the indenture governing the 2013 convertible notes. The term fundamental change is limited to certain specified transactions as defined in the indenture governing the 2013 convertible notes and may not include other events that might adversely affect our financial condition or the market value of the 2013 convertible notes or our common stock. Our obligation to offer to redeem the 2013 convertible notes upon a fundamental change would not necessarily afford holders of the 2013 convertible notes protection in the event of a highly leveraged transaction, reorganization, merger or similar transaction involving us. 39 The market for unrated debt is subject to disruptions that could have an adverse effect on the market price of the 2013 convertible notes, or a market for our notes may fail to develop or be sustained. The 2013 convertible notes are not rated. As a result, holders of the notes have the risks associated with an investment in unrated debt. Historically, the market for unrated debt has been subject to disruptions that have caused substantial volatility in the prices of such securities and greatly reduced liquidity for the holders of such securities. If the notes are traded, they may trade at a discount from their initial offering price, depending on, among other things, prevailing interest rates, the markets for similar securities, general economic conditions and our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The liquidity of, and trading markets for, the notes also may be adversely affected by general declines in the market for unrated debt. Such declines may adversely affect the liquidity of, and trading markets for, the notes, independent of our financial performance or prospects. In addition, certain regulatory restrictions prohibit certain types of financial institutions from investing in unrated debt, which may further suppress demand for such securities. We cannot assure you that the market for the notes will not be subject to similar disruptions or that any market for our notes will develop or be sustained. Any such disruptions may have an adverse effect on the holders of the notes. We may not have sufficient funds available to pay amounts due under our 2013 convertible notes. We may not have sufficient funds available or may be unable to arrange for additional financing to satisfy our obligations under our 2013 notes. Our ability to pay cash to holders of the notes or meet our payment and other debt obligations depends on our ability to generate significant cash flow in the future. This, to some extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors, as well as other factors that are beyond our control. Also, the indenture governing our 2013 convertible notes does not contain any financial or operating covenants or restrictions on the payments of dividends, the incurrence of indebtedness or the issuance or repurchase of securities by us or any of our subsidiaries. We cannot assure you that our business will generate cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our payment obligations under the notes and our other obligations and to fund other liquidity needs. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 