Item 1A. Risk Factors Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have made forward-looking statements in an attempt to better enable the reader to understand our future prospects and make informed judgments. By their nature, forward-looking statements are subject to numerous factors that may influence outcomes or even prevent their eventual realization. Such factors may be external to Enzon and entirely outside our control. We cannot guarantee that our assumptions and expectations will be correct. Failure of events to be achieved or of certain underlying assumptions to prove accurate could cause actual results to vary materially from past results and those anticipated or projected. We do not intend to update forward-looking statements. Certain risks and uncertainties are discussed below. It is not possible to predict or identify all such factors, however. Accordingly, you should not consider this recitation to be complete. Risks Related to Our Business If any of these risks are realized our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to service debt could be materially adversely affected. We expect to incur losses over the next several years. As of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $382.6 million. In the past, we have incurred net losses. For example, during the six-month period ended December 31, 2005 and the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005, we incurred net losses of $291.3 million and $89.6 million, respectively. Our net loss in the six-month period ended December 31, 2005 was primarily attributable to a write-off of goodwill and a write-down of intangible assets associated with our acquisition of Abelcet in 2002. Our net loss in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005 was primarily the result of lower sales of Abelcet and a $78.0 million charge we incurred to increase our valuation allowance associated with our deferred tax assets based upon our assessment that it was more likely than not that we would not benefit from these assets. Our ability to achieve long-term profitability will depend primarily on: • the success of our research and development programs; • the continued sales of our marketed products and the products on which we receive royalties; and • our and our licensees’ ability to develop and obtain regulatory approvals for additional product candidates. We expect to incur losses over the next several years, including for the year ending December 31, 2007, as we expect to make significant research and development expenditures. Our financial results are heavily dependent on the continued sales of our marketed products and the products on which we receive royalties; if revenues from these products fail to increase or materially decline, our results of operations, financial position and prospects will be materially harmed. Our results of operations are heavily dependent on the revenues we derive from the sale and marketing of PEG-INTRON marketed by Schering Plough that incorporates our PEG technology and for which we receive royalties, and our marketed products, including Oncaspar, DepoCyt, Adagen and Abelcet. In addition, we expect these products will account for a significant portion of our future revenues. As a consequence of the significant portion of our revenues derived from these products, the stagnation or decline in the sales of one or more of these products could adversely affect our operating results, financial position and prospects. Sales of these products can be affected by, among other things, competition, patient demand, and manufacturing issues. We cannot assure you that Schering-Plough will continue to be successful in marketing PEG-INTRON. The amount and timing of resources dedicated by Schering-Plough to the marketing of PEG-INTRON is not within our control. If Schering-Plough breaches or terminates its agreement with us, the sale of PEG-INTRON could be slowed 26 Table of Contents or blocked completely. Our revenues will be negatively affected if Schering-Plough cannot meet the marketing or manufacturing demands of the market. Sales of PEG-INTRON and Abelcet have been adversely affected by competitive products introduced into their respective markets and we have experienced in the past and may continue to experience in the future a decline in sales of Abelcet, which if not reversed, will adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Products that compete with both PEG-INTRON and Abelcet have been and potentially will be introduced by other drug manufacturers into their respective markets. Hoffman-LaRoche’s Pegasys, a competing PEGylated interferon-based combination therapy, has resulted in significant competitive pressure on PEG-INTRON sales in the United States and all international markets. Pegasys has taken market share away from PEG-INTRON and the overall market for PEGylated alpha-interferon for the treatment of hepatitis C has been contracting. As a result, sales of PEG-INTRON in certain markets where it competes with Pegasys and the royalties we receive on those sales have declined. We cannot assure you that Pegasys will not continue to gain market share at the expense of PEG-INTRON which could result in lower PEG-INTRON sales and lower royalties to us. Hoffmann-LaRoche reported that they expect approval in Japan for Pegasys combination therapy. The launch in Japan of Pegasys is expected to have a negative impact on PEG-INTRON’s Japanese market share and sales. Similarly, the continued sale of newer products from Merck, Pfizer, Schering-Plough and Astellas Pharma in the antifungal market (where Abelcet competes) has negatively impacted Abelcet sales as clinicians utilize these other therapeutic agents. Pfizer and Schering-Plough have each recently obtained approval for an additional new product in the antifungal market that is expected to further increase competition. In addition, Astellas Pharma and Gilead Sciences, Inc. are currently marketing AmBisome, and Three Rivers Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is marketing Amphotec, each of which is a lipid-based version of amphotericin B, for the treatment of fungal infections. AmBisome and Amphotec each compete with Abelcet which has resulted in greater competitive pressure on Abelcet sales. During calendar year 2006, we continued to experience increasing pricing pressure with respect to Abelcet. In particular, Astellas Pharma and Gilead Sciences, Inc., have aggressively lowered the price of their product in certain regions and for certain customers in the United States. This has resulted in the shrinkage or loss of certain of our customer accounts. While we are developing and implementing strategies to address the competitive threats facing Abelcet, we cannot assure you that we will be able to increase sales of Abelcet or prevent further decreases in Abelcet sales. If we are not successful in addressing the competitive threats, it could adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and prospects. Significant indebtedness may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to repay or repurchase our 2013 convertible notes and 2008 convertible notes. As of December 31, 2006, we had $397.6 million of outstanding indebtedness, primarily related to our outstanding 2013 convertible notes and 2008 convertible notes. Our significant debt level could have important negative consequences, including: • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; • requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our expected cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of our expected cash flow available for other purposes, including capital expenditures; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we compete; • placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage relative to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have better access to capital resources; and 27 Table of Contents • making it difficult or impossible for us to pay the principal amount of the notes at maturity, the interest on or the repurchase price of the notes upon a fundamental change, thereby causing an event of default under the indenture. In addition, the notes are our obligation exclusively. We may have difficulty paying what we owe under the notes if we or our subsidiaries incur additional indebtedness or other liabilities. We depend on our collaborative partners; if we lose our collaborative partners or they do not apply adequate resources to our collaborations, our product development and financial performance may suffer. We rely and will depend heavily in the future on collaborations with partners, primarily pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, for one or more of the research, development, manufacturing, marketing and other commercialization activities relating to most of our product candidates. If we lose our collaborative partners, or if they do not apply adequate resources to our collaborations, our product development and financial performance may suffer. The amount and timing of resources dedicated by our collaborators to their collaborations with us is not within our control. If any collaborator breaches or terminates its agreements with us, or fails to conduct its collaborative activities in a timely manner, the commercialization of our product candidates could be slowed or blocked completely. We cannot assure you that our collaborative partners will not change their strategic focus or pursue alternative technologies or develop alternative products as a means for developing treatments for the diseases targeted by these collaborative programs. Our collaborators could develop competing products. We cannot assure you that our collaborations will be successful. Disputes may arise between us and our collaborators as to a variety of matters, including financing obligations under our agreements and ownership of intellectual property rights. These disputes may be both expensive and time-consuming and may result in delays in the development and commercialization of products. If any of the product candidates that we are commercializing with collaborators are delayed or stopped from coming to market or we experience increased costs as a result of our relationship with our collaborators, our financial performance could be adversely affected. We will need to obtain additional financing to meet our future capital needs and our failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operations. Our current development projects and marketing initiatives require substantial capital. We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and investments and our anticipated cash flow from operations will be adequate to satisfy our capital needs for the near future, but we will likely need to increase our cash flow from operations or obtain financing to meet our future capital needs, which we expect will be substantial. We will require substantial additional funds to conduct research activities, preclinical studies, clinical trials and other activities relating to the successful commercialization of potential products. In addition, we may seek to acquire additional products, technologies and companies, which could require substantial capital. The competitive pressures impacting PEG-INTRON and Abelcet may cause our cash flow from operations to decrease rather than increase in the future and we cannot be sure that additional funds from other sources will be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If adequate funds are unavailable from operations or additional sources of financing, we may have to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our research or development programs or one or more of our potential acquisitions of technologies or companies, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operations. As of December 31, 2006, we had $122.6 million of our 2008 4.5% convertible subordinated notes outstanding. The notes will mature on July 1, 2008 unless earlier converted, redeemed at our option, or redeemed at the option of the noteholder upon a default by us or fundamental change, each as described in the indenture for the notes. We will be required to repay the notes at maturity unless we can refinance the debt. Noteholders are very unlikely to convert their notes into common stock before the maturity date. We expect that we will need to refinance or obtain new financing to pay at least a portion of the principal amount of these notes. We currently are considering financing alternatives; however, we cannot be certain that any of such financing alternatives will be consummated on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. 28 Table of Contents We may seek to raise any necessary additional funds through equity or debt financings, collaborative arrangements with corporate partners or other sources which may be dilutive to existing stockholders. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain additional funds on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We purchase some of the compounds utilized in our products from a single source or a limited group of suppliers, and the partial or complete loss of one of these suppliers could cause production delays and a substantial loss of revenues. We purchase the unmodified compounds and bulk PEGs utilized in our approved products and products under development from outside suppliers. In some cases, we have a limited number of suppliers. Moreover, in some cases, we have no supply agreement. Specifically, our ability to obtain compounds for our respective products may be limited by the following factors. Oncaspar. We have supply agreements with Ovation Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Kyowa Hakko to produce the unmodified forms of L-asparaginase, the active ingredient used in the production of Oncaspar. Our agreement with Ovation Pharmaceuticals, Inc. provides for Ovation to supply L-asparaginase to us through 2009. We have committed to effectuate a technology transfer of the cell line and manufacturing of the L-asparaginase to our own supplier by December 31, 2009, and then supply L-asparaginase back to Ovation during the years 2010-2012. It is possible that we will not be able to successfully complete the technology transfer by the deadline or at all due to technological, manufacturing, regulatory or other issues. If we are unable to effectuate the technology transfer by the deadline, we may not be able to manufacture or sell Oncaspar, which would result in a substantial loss of revenues. Also, if we are unable to supply L-asparaginase back to Ovation during the years 2010-2012, we could be required to pay damages to Ovation in connection with a breach of our obligation to supply them. Adagen. We purchase the unmodified adenosine deaminase enzyme used in the manufacturing of Adagen from Roche Diagnostics. Roche Diagnostics, which is based in Germany, and is the only FDA-approved supplier of the adenosine deaminase enzyme, or ADA, used in Adagen. During 2002 we obtained FDA approval of the use of the ADA enzyme obtained from bovine intestines from cattle of New Zealand origin. New Zealand currently certifies that its cattle are bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE or mad cow disease) free. Beginning in September 2002, the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) required all animal-sourced materials shipped to the United States from any European country to contain a veterinary certificate that the product is BSE free, regardless of the country of origin. Our ADA supply agreement with Roche Diagnostics terminated in 2004 although we are still receiving our supply of ADA from them. We are currently seeking to develop a recombinant ADA as an alternative to the naturally-derived bovine product. This is a difficult and expensive undertaking as to which success cannot be assured. Roche Diagnostics continues to supply us with our requirements of ADA and indicated when they terminated the supply agreement that they will continue to do so for a reasonable period of time as we work to develop another source of ADA. We may have little or no notice if Roche Diagnostics decides to stop supplying us with ADA. If we are unable to secure an alternative source of ADA before Roche Diagnostics discontinues supplying the material to us, we will likely experience inventory shortages and potentially a period of product unavailability or a long-term inability to produce Adagen. If this occurs, it will have a measurable (and potentially material) negative impact on our business and results of operations and it could potentially result in significant reputational harm and regulatory difficulties. Abelcet. We have two suppliers that produce the amphotericin B used in the manufacture of Abelcet, Bristol-Myers Squibb (BMS) and Alpharma A.p.S. Our supply agreement with BMS terminated on March 1, 2006, and we do not have a supply agreement with Alpharma. We are currently still receiving supply of amphotericin B from BMS, and Alpharma may provide an alternate source in the future, although there can be no assurance they will provide us with amphotericin B. Additionally, we are seeking to qualify at least one additional source of supply. The termination of our supply agreement by BMS may give rise to future increased costs for the acquisition of amphotericin B, as well as increased capital expenditures related to readying a new supplier’s facilities for cGMP, and obtaining production and regulatory approval of Abelcet incorporating the alternative amphotericin B. Although there can be no assurance as to the timing of these increased costs and additional capital expenditures, we anticipate that these may be incurred beginning in calendar year 2007. 29 Table of Contents If we experience a delay in obtaining or are unable to obtain any compound for any of the products discussed above on reasonable terms, or at all, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. No assurance can be given that in any case alternative suppliers with appropriate regulatory authorizations could be readily identified if necessary. If we experience delays in obtaining or are unable to obtain any such compounds on reasonable terms, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are required to obtain an alternate source for an unmodified compound utilized in a product, the FDA and relevant foreign regulatory agencies will likely require that we perform additional testing to demonstrate that the alternate material is biologically and chemically equivalent to the unmodified compound previously used in our clinical trials. This testing could delay or stop development of a product, limit commercial sales of an approved product and cause us to incur significant additional expenses. If we are unable to demonstrate that the alternate material is chemically and biologically equivalent to the previously used unmodified compound, we will likely be required to repeat some or all of the preclinical and clinical trials conducted for the compound. The marketing of an FDA approved drug could be disrupted while such tests are conducted. Even if the alternate material is shown to be chemically and biologically equivalent to the previously used compound, the FDA or relevant foreign regulatory agency may require that we conduct additional clinical trials with the alternate material. There is a high risk that early-stage research and development might not generate successful product candidates. At the present time the vast majority of our research and development operations are focused on the early stages of product research and development, and we are first commencing clinical trials on our product development candidates. The research and development of pharmaceutical products is subject to high risk of failure. Most product development candidates fail to reach the market. Our success depends on the identification of new drugs or modified forms of existing drugs that we can successfully develop and commercialize. We do not expect any of the drugs resulting from our current research and development efforts to be commercially available for several years, if at all. In order to fill our pipeline of product candidates under development, we may attempt to acquire rights to products under development by other companies. The competition for the acquisition of rights to products that are viewed as viable candidates for successful development and commercialization is intense, and we will be competing for such opportunities with many companies with resources that are substantially greater than ours. In addition, our potential products are subject to risks of failure inherent in the development of new pharmaceutical products. These risks include, but are not limited to, risks that the drug might prove ineffective or may cause harmful side-effects during pre-clinical testing or clinical trials, may fail to receive necessary regulatory approvals, cannot be manufactured on a commercial scale basis and therefore may not be economical to produce, may fail to achieve market acceptance or that we may be precluded from commercialization by proprietary rights of third parties. Our product candidates must undergo extensive clinical testing, the results of which are uncertain and could substantially delay or prevent us from obtaining regulatory approval. Before we can obtain regulatory approval for a product candidate, we must undertake extensive clinical testing in humans to demonstrate safety and efficacy to the satisfaction of the FDA. Clinical trials of new product candidates sufficient to obtain regulatory marketing approval are expensive and take years to complete, and the outcome of these trials is uncertain. Clinical development of any product candidate that we determine to take into clinical trials may be delayed or prevented at any time for some or all of the following reasons: • negative or ambiguous results regarding the efficacy of the product candidate; • undesirable side effects that delay or extend the trials or make the product candidate not medically or commercially viable; • inability to recruit and qualify a sufficient number of patients for our trials; • regulatory delays or other regulatory actions, including changes in regulatory requirements; • difficulties in obtaining sufficient quantities of the product candidate manufactured under current good manufacturing practices; 30 Table of Contents • delays, suspension or termination of the trials imposed by us, an independent institutional review board for a clinical trial site, or clinical holds placed upon the trials by the FDA; and • we may have inadequate financial resources to fund these trials. Also, our development programs in the early clinical or preclinical phases. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to select successful product candidates, complete preclinical development of these product candidates and advance them to clinical trials. Our preclinical programs may not lead to clinical programs if we fail to identify promising product candidates or our product candidates fail to be safe and effective in preclinical tests. The results of preclinical and Phase I and Phase II clinical studies are not necessarily indicative of whether a product will demonstrate safety and efficacy in larger patient populations, as evaluated in Phase III clinical trials. From time to time, we may establish and announce certain development goals for our product candidates and programs; however, given the complex nature of the drug discovery and development process, it is difficult to predict accurately if and when we will achieve these goals. If we are unsuccessful in advancing our preclinical programs into clinical testing or in obtaining regulatory approval, our long-term business prospects will be harmed. We rely and will continue to rely on clinical investigators, academic institutions, third-party contract research organizations and consultants to perform some or all of the functions associated with preclinical testing or clinical trials. While we rely heavily on these parties for successful execution of our clinical trials, we do not control many aspects of their activities. The failure of any of these parties to perform in an acceptable and timely manner, including in accordance with any applicable regulatory requirements, such as good clinical and laboratory practices, or preclinical testing or clinical trial protocols, could cause a delay or otherwise adversely affect our preclinical testing or clinical trials and ultimately the timely advancement of our development programs. We also depend upon third party manufacturers to qualify for FDA approval and to comply with good manufacturing practices required by regulators. The failure of our manufacturers and suppliers to comply with current good manufacturing practices may result in the delay or termination of clinical studies. A delay in or termination of any of our clinical development programs could have an adverse effect on our business. We depend on patents and proprietary rights, which may offer only limited protection against potential infringement and the development by our competitors of competitive products. The U.S. and foreign patents upon which our original PEG technology was based have expired. The pharmaceutical industry places considerable importance on obtaining patent and trade secret protection for new technologies, products and processes. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to develop and maintain a strong patent position for our products and technologies both in the United States and in other countries. We have an extensive portfolio of issued U.S. patents and filed applications many of which have foreign counterparts. These patents, if extensions are not granted, are expected to expire beginning in 2007 through 2023. Under our license agreements, we have access to large portions of Micromet AG’s patent estate as well as a small number of individually licensed patents. Of the patents owned or exclusively licensed by us, 7 relate to PEG-INTRON, 17 relate to Abelcet and 3 relate to DepoCyt. Although we believe that our patents provide certain protection from competition for Abelcet and DepoCyt, we cannot assure you that such patents will be of substantial protection or commercial benefit to us, will afford us adequate protection from competing products, or will not be challenged or declared invalid. In addition, we cannot assure you that additional U.S. patents or foreign patent equivalents will be issued to us. The scope of patent claims for biotechnological inventions is uncertain and our patents and patent applications are subject to this uncertainty. In September 2006, we gave notice to Nektar of our intention not to renew the provisions of our agreement with Nektar that gives Nektar the right to sub-license a portion of our PEG technology and patents to third parties. This right terminated as of January 2007 and will not affect any existing sub-licenses granted by Nektar. We may become aware that certain organizations are engaging in activities that infringe certain of our PEG and single-chain antibody, or SCA, technology patents. We cannot assure you that we will be able to enforce our patent and other rights against such organizations. 31 Table of Contents We expect that there will continue to be significant litigation in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries regarding patents and other proprietary rights. We have in the past been involved in patent litigation and we may likely become involved in additional patent litigation in the future. We may incur substantial costs in asserting any patent rights and in defending suits against us related to intellectual property rights. Such disputes could substantially delay or prevent our product development or commercialization activities and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The U.S and corresponding foreign patents upon which our original PEG technology was based and containing broad claims covering the attachment of PEG to polypeptides in 1996. Without that patent protection, other parties are permitted to make, use or sell products covered by the claims of those patents, subject to other patents, including those which we hold. We have obtained numerous patents with claims covering improved methods of attaching or linking PEG to therapeutic compounds. We cannot assure you that any of these patents will enable us to prevent competition or that competitors will not develop alternative methods of attaching PEG to compounds potentially resulting in competitive products outside the protection that may be afforded by our patents. We are aware that others have also filed patent applications and have been granted patents in the United States and other countries with respect to the application of PEG to proteins and other compounds. We or our suppliers could experience delays or difficulties in manufacturing, including problems complying with the FDA’s regulations for manufacturing our products. These problems could materially harm our business. Manufacturers of drugs must comply with current cGMP regulations, which include quality control and quality assurance requirements as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation. Manufacturing facilities are subject to ongoing periodic inspection by the FDA and corresponding state agencies, including unannounced inspections of our commercial manufacturing facilities. We or our present or future suppliers may be unable to comply with the applicable cGMP regulations and other FDA regulatory requirements. Adagen and Oncaspar, which we manufacture, use our earlier PEG technology which tends to be less stable than the PEG technology used in PEG-INTRON and our products under development. Due, in part, to the drawbacks in the earlier technologies we have had and may continue to have manufacturing problems with these products. We continue to face manufacturing and stability issues with Oncaspar. To date, we have been unable to identify the cause of these issues. If we continue to have these issues with Oncaspar, we may have a disruption in our ability to manufacture Oncaspar. Manufacturing and stability problems have required us to implement voluntary recalls or market withdrawals for certain batches of Oncaspar periodically since 2002 and as recently as the fourth quarter of 2006. Mandatory recalls can also take place if regulators or courts require them, even if we believe our products are safe and effective. Recalls result in lost sales of the recalled products themselves and can result in further lost sales while replacement products are manufactured or due to customer dissatisfaction. We cannot assure you that future product recalls or market withdrawals will not materially adversely affect our business, our financial conditions, results of operations or our reputation and relationships with our customers. Disruption in supply or manufacturing difficulties relating to Oncaspar could cause a disruption in our ability to market and sell Oncaspar and result in a substantial loss of revenues. The FDA and the MHRA, the British equivalent of the FDA, have conducted periodic inspections of our manufacturing facilities related to Abelcet, Oncaspar and Adagen. Following certain of these inspections, the FDA has issued Form 483 reports citing deviations from cGMP, the most recent of which were issued in January 2006 for our New Jersey facility and August 2005 for our Indianapolis facility. We have responded to such reports with corrective action plans. We are aware that the FDA has conducted inspections of certain of the manufacturing facilities of Schering-Plough, who manufactures PEG-INTRON, and Merck, who manufactures the L-asparaginase that we receive from Ovation Pharmaceuticals for use in the production of Oncaspar, and those inspections have resulted in the issuance of Forms 483 citing deviations from cGMP. 32 Table of Contents If we or our partners face additional manufacturing problems in the future or if we or our licensees are unable to satisfactorily resolve current or future manufacturing problems, the FDA could require us or our licensees to discontinue the distribution of our products or to delay continuation of clinical trials. We depend on key personnel and may not be able to retain these employees or recruit additional qualified personnel, which would harm our business. Because of the specialized scientific nature of our business, we are highly dependent upon qualified scientific, technical and managerial personnel, including our Chief Executive Officer. There is intense competition for qualified personnel in the pharmaceutical field. Therefore, we may not be able to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business. Although we have employment agreements with our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Scientific Officer, our ability to continue to retain such officers, as well as other senior executives or key managers is not assured. The loss of the services of one or a combination of our senior executives, particularly our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Scientific Officer, as well as the failure to recruit additional key scientific, technical and managerial personnel in a timely manner, would have an adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to Our Industry We face rapid technological change and intense competition, which could harm our business and results of operations. The biopharmaceutical industry is characterized by rapid technological change. Our future success will depend on our ability to maintain a competitive position with respect to technological advances. Rapid technological development by others may result in our products and technologies becoming obsolete. We face intense competition from established biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, as well as academic and research institutions that are pursuing competing technologies and products. We know that competitors are developing or manufacturing various products that are used for the prevention, diagnosis or treatment of diseases that we have targeted for product development. For example, PEG-INTRON faces increased competition from Hoffman LaRoche’s Pegasys, Abelcet faces increased competition from Astellas Pharma and Gilead Pharmaceuticals’ AmBisome and Three Rivers Pharmaceuticals’ Amphotec. DepoCyt competes with the generic drugs, cytarabine and methotrexate, and Oncaspar competes with ELSPAR® (asparaginase). Other existing and future products, therapies and technological approaches will compete directly with our products. Current and prospective competing products may provide greater therapeutic benefits for a specific problem or may offer comparable performance at a lower cost. In addition, any product candidate that we develop and that obtains regulatory approval must then compete for market acceptance and market share. Many of our competitors have substantially greater research and development capabilities and experience and greater manufacturing, marketing and financial resources than we do. Accordingly, our competitors may develop technologies and products that are superior to those we or our collaborators are developing and render our technologies and products or those of our collaborators obsolete and noncompetitive. In addition, many of our competitors have much more experience than we do in preclinical testing and human clinical trials of new drugs, as well as in obtaining FDA and other regulatory approval. If we cannot compete effectively, our business and financial performance would suffer. We and our licensees are subject to extensive regulation. Compliance with these regulations can be costly, time consuming and subject us to unanticipated delays in developing our products. The regulatory approval process is highly uncertain and we may not successfully secure approval for new products. The marketing of pharmaceutical products in the United States and abroad is subject to stringent governmental regulation. The sale of any new products for use in humans in the United States will require the prior approval of the FDA. Similar approvals by comparable agencies are required in most foreign countries. The FDA has established mandatory procedures and safety standards that apply to the clinical testing and marketing of pharmaceutical products. Obtaining FDA approval for a new therapeutic product may take several years and involve substantial 33 Table of Contents expenditures. We cannot assure you that we or our licensees will be able to obtain or maintain FDA or other relevant marketing approval for any of our products. In addition, any approved products are subject to continuing regulation. If we or our licensees fail to comply with applicable requirements, it could result in penalties, fines, recalls or other injunctive or oversight remedies. If we or our licensees fail to obtain or maintain requisite governmental approvals or fail to obtain or maintain approvals of the scope requested, it will delay or preclude us or our licensees or marketing partners from marketing our products. It could also limit the commercial use of our products. Any such failure or limitation may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, FDA approval may be provisional. For example, our product DepoCyt was approved under the Accelerated Approval regulations of Subpart H of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. These regulations are intended to make promising products for life-threatening diseases available to the market on the basis of preliminary evidence prior to formal demonstration of patient benefit. Approvals granted under Subpart H are provisional and require a written commitment to complete post-approval clinical studies that formally demonstrate patient benefit. Our licensor, SkyePharma, is responsible for conducting the required study. If the FDA determines that such post-approval clinical study fails to demonstrate patient benefit, the registration for DepoCyt may be subject to withdrawal. Even if we obtain regulatory approval for our products, they may not be accepted in the marketplace. The commercial success of our products will depend upon their acceptance by the medical community and third-party payors as clinically useful, cost-effective and safe. Even if our products obtain regulatory approval, we cannot assure you that they will achieve market acceptance of any kind. The degree of market acceptance will depend on many factors, including: • the receipt, timing and scope of regulatory approvals, • the timing of market entry in comparison with potentially competitive products, • the availability of third-party reimbursement, and • the establishment and demonstration in the medical community of the clinical safety, efficacy and cost-effectiveness of drug candidates, as well as their advantages over existing technologies and therapeutics. If any of our products do not achieve market acceptance, we will likely lose our entire investment in that product, giving rise to a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations. Our operations are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations concerning, among other things, the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of hazardous, toxic and radioactive substances and the discharge of pollutants into the air and water. Environmental permits and controls are required for some of our operations and these permits are subject to modification, renewal and revocation by the issuing authorities. We believe that our facilities are in substantial compliance with our permits and environmental laws and regulations and do not believe that future compliance with current environmental law will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If, however, we were to become liable for an accident, or if we were to suffer an extended facility shutdown as a result of such contamination, we could incur significant costs, damages and penalties that could harm our business. We may be subject to a variety of types of product liability or other claims based on allegations that the use of our products has resulted in adverse effects, whether by participants in our clinical trials or by patients using our products, and there is no assurance that our insurance will cover all product liability or other claims. Although we maintain product liability insurance for claims arising from the use of our products in clinical trials prior to FDA approval and for claims arising from the use of our products after FDA approval at levels that we 34 Table of Contents believe are appropriate, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our existing insurance coverage or obtain additional coverage on commercially reasonable terms for the use of our other products in the future. Also, our insurance coverage and our resources may not be sufficient to satisfy any liability resulting from product liability claims, and a product liability claim may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Because of the uncertainty of pharmaceutical pricing, reimbursement and healthcare reform measures, we may be unable to sell our products profitably in the United States. The availability of reimbursement by governmental and other third-party payors affects the market for any pharmaceutical product. In recent years, there have been numerous proposals to change the healthcare system in the United States and further proposals are likely. Some of these proposals have included measures that would limit or eliminate payments for medical procedures and treatments or subject the pricing of pharmaceuticals to government control. In addition, government and private third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both the coverage and the level of reimbursement of drug products. For example, under the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (the Act), Medicare benefits are provided primarily through private entities that attempt to negotiate price concessions from pharmaceutical manufacturers. This may increase pressure to lower prescription drug prices. The Act also includes other cost containment measures for Medicare in the event Medicare cost increases exceed a certain level, which measures may impose limitations on prescription drug prices. These changes in Medicare reimbursement could have a negative impact on our revenues derived from sales of our products. Moreover, significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly-approved healthcare products. Our ability to commercialize our products will depend, in part, on the extent to which reimbursement for the cost of the products and related treatments will be available from third-party payors. If we or any of our collaborators succeed in bringing one or more products to market, we cannot assure you that third-party payors will establish and maintain price levels sufficient for realization of an appropriate return on our investment in product development. In addition, lifetime limits on benefits included in most private health plans may force patients to self-pay for treatment. For example, patients who receive Adagen are expected to require injections for their entire lives. The cost of this treatment may exceed certain plan limits and cause patients to self-fund further treatment. Furthermore, inadequate third-party coverage may lead to reduced market acceptance of our products. Significant changes in the healthcare system in the United States or elsewhere could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. The law or FDA policy could change and expose us to competition from “generic” or “follow-on” versions of our products, which could adversely impact our business. Under current U.S. law and FDA policy, generic versions of conventional chemical drug compounds, sometimes referred to as small molecule compounds, may be approved through an abbreviated approval process. There is no abbreviated approval process under current law for biological products approved under the Public Health Service Act through a Biologic License Application, such as monoclonal antibodies, cytokines, growth factors, enzymes, interferons and certain other proteins. However, various proposals have been made to establish an abbreviated approval process to permit approval of generic or follow-on versions of these types of biological products under U.S. law, and the FDA’s counterpart in the European Union has recently approved a number of follow-on biologicals. It is not clear whether the FDA will adopt any proposals on generic or follow-on biologics. However, if the law is changed or if the FDA somehow extends its existing authority in new ways, and third parties are permitted to obtain approvals of versions of our biological products through an abbreviated approval mechanism, and without conducting full clinical studies of their own, it could adversely affect our business. 35 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock and our Convertible Notes The price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile, which may significantly affect the trading price of our notes. Historically, the market price of our common stock has fluctuated over a wide range, and it is likely that the price of our common stock will fluctuate in the future. The market price of our common stock could be impacted due to a variety of factors, including, in addition to global and industry-wide events: • the level of revenues we generate from our sale of products and royalties we receive; • the losses we incur or the profits we generate; • the results of preclinical testing and clinical trials by us, our collaborative partners or our competitors; • announcements of technical innovations or new products by us, our collaborative partners or our competitors; • the status of corporate collaborations and supply arrangements; • regulatory approvals; • developments in patent or other proprietary rights; • public concern as to the safety and efficacy of products developed by us or others; and • litigation. In addition, due to one or more of the foregoing factors in one or more future quarters, our results of operations may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In that event, the market price of our common stock could be materially and adversely affected. Volatility in the price of our common stock may significantly affect the trading price of our convertible notes. Events with respect to our share capital could cause the shares of our common stock outstanding to increase. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the open market, or the availability of such shares for sale, could adversely affect the price of our common stock. We had approximately 44.0 million shares of common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2006. As of that date, the following securities that may be exercised for, or are convertible into, shares of our common stock were outstanding: • Options. Stock options to purchase 6.7 million shares of our common stock at a weighted average exercise price of approximately $12.36 per share; • 4.5% convertible subordinated notes due 2008 (the “2008 convertible notes”). Our 2008 convertible notes that may be converted into 1.7 million shares of our common stock at a conversion price of $70.98 per share. • 4% convertible senior notes due 2013 (the “2013 convertible notes”). Our 2013 convertible notes that may be converted into 28.8 million shares of our common stock at a conversion price of $9.55 per share. • Restricted stock units. 1.5 million shares of our common stock issuable in respect of outstanding restricted stock units held by officers, employees and directors. The shares of our common stock that may be issued under the options, restricted stock, the 2008 convertible notes and the 2013 convertible notes are currently registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and, therefore, those shares of common stock that may be issued will be eligible for public resale. The conversion of some or all of the notes will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the notes could depress the price of our common stock. 36 Table of Contents The issuance of preferred stock may adversely affect rights of common stockholders or discourage a takeover. Under our certificate of incorporation, our board of directors has the authority to issue up to three million shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences and privileges of those shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any shares of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. In May 2002, our board of directors authorized shares of Series B preferred stock in connection with its adoption of a stockholder rights plan, under which we issued rights to purchase Series B preferred stock to holders of the common stock. Upon certain triggering events, such rights become exercisable to purchase common stock (or, at the discretion of our board of directors, Series B preferred stock) at a price substantially discounted from the then current market price of the common stock. Our stockholder rights plan could generally discourage a merger or tender offer involving our securities that is not approved by our board of directors by increasing the cost of effecting any such transaction and, accordingly, could have an adverse impact on stockholders who might want to vote in favor of such merger or participate in such tender offer. While we have no present intention to authorize any additional series of preferred stock, such issuance, while providing desirable flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could also have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. The preferred stock may have other rights, including economic rights senior to the common stock, and, as a result, the issuance thereof could have a material adverse effect on the market value of the common stock. Our 2008 notes are subordinated to all existing and future indebtedness. Our 2008 convertible subordinated notes are unsecured and subordinated in right of payment to all of our existing and future senior indebtedness, including our 2013 convertible notes. In the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization, or upon acceleration of the notes due to an event of default under the indenture and in certain other events, our assets will be available to pay obligations on the notes only after all senior indebtedness has been paid. As a result, there may not be sufficient assets remaining to pay amounts due on any or all of the outstanding notes. We are not prohibited from incurring debt, including senior indebtedness, under the indenture. If we were to incur additional debt or liabilities, our ability to pay our obligations on the notes could be adversely affected. We may be unable to redeem our 2013 convertible notes or 2008 convertible notes upon a fundamental change. We may be unable to redeem the 2013 convertible notes or the 2008 convertible notes in the event of a fundamental change, as defined in the respective indentures. Upon a fundamental change, holders of the 2013 convertible notes and 2008 convertible notes may require us to redeem all or a portion of the 2013 convertible notes and the 2008 convertible notes. If a fundamental change were to occur, we may not have enough funds to pay the redemption price for all tendered 2013 convertible notes and 2008 convertible notes. Any future credit agreements or other agreements relating to our indebtedness may contain similar provisions, or expressly prohibit the repurchase of the 2013 convertible notes or 2008 convertible notes upon a fundamental change or may provide that a fundamental change constitutes an event of default under that agreement. If a fundamental change occurs at a time when we are prohibited from purchasing or redeeming 2013 convertible notes or 2008 convertible notes, we could seek the consent of our lenders to redeem the 2013 convertible notes or 2008 convertible notes or could attempt to refinance this debt. If we do not obtain a consent, we could not purchase or redeem the 2013 convertible notes or 2008 convertible notes. Our failure to redeem tendered 2013 convertible notes or 2008 convertible notes would constitute an event of default under the respective indenture. In such circumstances, or if a fundamental change would constitute an event of default under our senior indebtedness, the subordination provision of the indenture governing the 2008 convertible notes would restrict payments to the holders of the 2008 convertible notes. The term fundamental change is limited to certain specified transactions as defined in the respective indentures and may not include other events that might adversely affect our financial condition or the market value of the 2013 convertible notes or the 2008 convertible notes or our common stock. Our obligation to offer to redeem the 2013 37 Table of Contents convertible notes or the 2008 convertible notes upon a fundamental change would not necessarily afford holders of the 2013 convertible notes or the 2008 convertible notes protection in the event of a highly leveraged transaction, reorganization, merger or similar transaction involving us. The market for unrated debt is subject to disruptions that could have an adverse effect on the market price of the 2013 convertible notes or the 2008 convertible notes, or a market for our notes may fail to develop or be sustained. The 2013 convertible notes and the 2008 convertible notes are not rated. As a result, holders of the notes have the risks associated with an investment in unrated debt. Historically, the market for unrated debt has been subject to disruptions that have caused substantial volatility in the prices of such securities and greatly reduced liquidity for the holders of such securities. If the notes are traded, they may trade at a discount from their initial offering price, depending on, among other things, prevailing interest rates, the markets for similar securities, general economic conditions and our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The liquidity of, and trading markets for, the notes also may be adversely affected by general declines in the market for unrated debt. Such declines may adversely affect the liquidity of, and trading markets for, the notes, independent of our financial performance or prospects. In addition, certain regulatory restrictions prohibit certain types of financial institutions from investing in unrated debt, which may further suppress demand for such securities. We cannot assure you that the market for the notes will not be subject to similar disruptions or that any market for our notes will develop or be sustained. Any such disruptions may have an adverse effect on the holders of the notes. We may not have sufficient funds available to pay amounts due under our 2013 convertible notes or 2008 convertible notes. We may not have sufficient funds available or may be unable to arrange for additional financing to satisfy our obligations under the notes. Our ability to pay cash to holders of the notes or meet our payment and other debt obligations depends on our ability to generate significant cash flow in the future. This, to some extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors, as well as other factors that are beyond our control. Also, the indentures governing our 2013 convertible notes and 2008 convertible notes do not contain any financial or operating covenants or restrictions on the payments of dividends, the incurrence of indebtedness or the issuance or repurchase of securities by us or any of our subsidiaries. We cannot assure you that our business will generate cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our payment obligations under the notes and our other obligations and to fund other liquidity needs. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 