Item 1A. Risk Factors Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have made forward-looking statements in an attempt to better enable the reader to understand our future prospects and make informed judgments. By their nature, forward-looking statements are subject to numerous factors that may influence outcomes or even prevent their eventual realization. Such factors may be external to our company and entirely outside our control. We cannot guarantee that our assumptions and expectations will be correct. Failure of events to be achieved or of certain underlying assumptions to prove accurate could cause actual results to vary materially from past results and those anticipated or projected. We do not intend to update forward-looking statements. Certain risks and uncertainties are discussed below. However, it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Accordingly, you should not consider this recitation to be complete. Risks Relating to Our Review of a Possible Sale of Our Company or Our Assets Our sale review process is uncertain and entails numerous significant risks and uncertainties. As previously announced in December 2012, our Board of Directors retained Lazard to act as financial advisor in a review of the possible sale or disposition of one or more corporate assets or a sale of our company, and our Board of Directors has established a special committee to oversee our sale review process. In connection with our sale review process, we have substantially suspended all clinical development activities with a goal of conserving and maximizing value returned to our stockholders. Our sale review process entails numerous significant risks and uncertainties, including the following risks and uncertainties: ·our sale review process involves significant management time, effort and associated expense and may disrupt our management team from its day-to-day responsibilities and perceived uncertainties as to our future direction may result in the loss of, or our inability to retain key employees or business partners; ·there can be no assurance that our sale review process will result in any definitive offer to acquire our company or our assets, or if made what the terms thereof will be, or that any other transaction will be approved or consummated; ·if any definitive offer to acquire our company or our assets is made, there can be no assurance that a definitive agreement will be executed or that, if a definitive agreement is executed, the transaction will be consummated; ·there can be no assurance that any transaction that is consummated would deliver the anticipated benefits or enhance stockholder value; ·the timetable for our sale review process is uncertain; ·the market price of our common stock may significantly fluctuate in response to developments in our sale review process or market speculation regarding such developments; ·we expect to incur significant costs, expenses and fees in connection with our sale review process and any transaction that might result from our sale review process, including costs, expenses and fees for financial, legal and other professional advisors; ·we may be subject to litigation or other claims related to our sale review process or any transaction that might result from our sale review process; and ·we may decide to terminate our sale review process at any time without pursuing a transaction. 18 Any of these risks or uncertainties could cause the value of our company and our assets and the market price of our common stock to decline significantly. For example, if a transaction is not consummated, the market price of our common stock may decline to the extent that the market price reflects an expectation that a transaction will be consummated. If our sale review process does not result in the sale of our company, our Board of Directors may decide to pursue a dissolution and liquidation of our company. There can be no assurance that our sale review process will result in the sale of our company. If our sale review process does not result in the sale of our company, our Board of Directors may decide to pursue a dissolution and liquidation of our company. If our Board of Directors were to approve and recommend, and our stockholders were to approve, a dissolution and liquidation of our company, we would be required under Delaware corporate law to pay our outstanding obligations, as well as to make reasonable provision for contingent and unknown obligations, prior to making any distributions in liquidation to our stockholders. Our commitments and contingent liabilities may include (i) obligations under our employment and separation agreements with certain members of its management that provide for severance and other payments following a termination of employment occurring for various reasons, including a change in control of our company, (ii) various claims and legal actions arising in the ordinary course of business and (iii) non-cancelable lease obligations. As a result of this requirement, a portion of our assets may need to be reserved pending the resolution of such obligations. In addition, we may be subject to litigation or other claims related to a dissolution and liquidation of our company. If a dissolution and liquidation were pursued, our Board of Directors, in consultation with its advisors, would need to evaluate these matters and make a determination about a reasonable amount to reserve. Accordingly, if a dissolution and liquidation were pursued, we cannot be certain of the amount and/or timing of any distributions to our stockholders. We may incur losses over the next several years and may never achieve or sustain profitability. We have incurred losses in the past and have limited sources of revenues. We may incur losses in the future, including for the year ending December 31, 2013. We expect to continue to incur operating expenses and anticipate that we could have significant expenses in the foreseeable future involving the implementation of any transaction that might result from our sale review process, which could further reduce our existing capital, including legal and financial advisor fees. If we do not consummate a transaction that might result from our sale review process, we may still be responsible for the payment of substantial legal and financial advisor fees incurred in connection with our sale review process. These fees might result in an increase in our professional services expenses. We have substantially suspended all clinical development activities and our review of a possible sale of one or more of our clinical development programs is uncertain. In December 2012, we announced plans to suspend all clinical development activities. Consistent with this announcement, we have substantially suspended all clinical development activities with a goal of conserving capital and maximizing value returned to our stockholders. As a result of our December 2012 announcement, we recorded $11.3 million of non-cash impairment charges related to our property and equipment. Our sale review process includes a review of the possible sale or disposition of one or more of our clinical development programs. There can be no assurance that our sale review process will result in any definitive offer to acquire our clinical development programs, or if made what the terms thereof will be or that any other transaction involving our clinical development programs will be approved or consummated. If any definitive offer to acquire our clinical development programs is made, there can be no assurance that a definitive agreement will be executed or that, if a definitive agreement is executed, the transaction will be consummated. In addition, there can be no assurance that any transaction involving our programs that is consummated would deliver the anticipated benefits or enhance stockholder value. Our financial results are heavily dependent on the continued sales of PegIntron on which we receive royalties, and if revenues from these royalties or royalties from the sales other products materially decline, our results of operations and financial position could be materially harmed. Our results of operations are heavily dependent on the royalty revenues we receive from the sale of PegIntron, which is marketed by Merck and sales of which have been in decline since 2008. As a consequence, a continued decline 19 in the sales of PegIntron could adversely affect our operating results and financial position. We cannot assure you that Merck will continue to generate sales of PegIntron at levels that would enable us to receive royalties in amounts that are comparable with the amounts of royalties that we have received in recent years. The amount and timing of resources dedicated by Merck to the marketing of PegIntron is not within our control. Our royalty revenues will be negatively affected if sales of PegIntron are limited for any reason, including if Merck cannot market PegIntron effectively as a result of competitive, manufacturing, regulatory or other issues. Products that compete with PegIntron have been and potentially will be introduced by other drug manufacturers. Hoffmann-La Roche’s PEGASYS, a competing PEGylated interferon alfa, has resulted in significant competitive pressure on PegIntron sales in the U.S. and all international markets. PEGASYS has taken market share away from PegIntron and the overall market for PEGylated alpha-interferon for the treatment of hepatitis C has been contracting. As a result, sales of PegIntron in certain markets where it competes with PEGASYS and the royalties we receive on those sales have declined. We cannot assure you that PEGASYS will not continue to gain market share at the expense of PegIntron which could result in lower PegIntron sales and lower royalties to us. There are several novel agents in various stages of preclinical and clinical development for the treatment of hepatitis C which either include or eliminate combination with pegylated interferon-based therapies. It is possible that this research could lead to a competing product or ultimately to interferon-free combination therapy in the future. If we do not realize the expected benefits from the reduction in our workforce that was contemplated in our December 2012 announcement and from future cost savings initiatives that we may implement, the value of our company and our assets and the market price of our common stock could materially decline. In December 2012, we made an announcement that contemplated a reduction in our workforce of approximately 15-20 employees. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to realize the cost savings and other anticipated benefits from this reduction in force, or that this reduction in force will not interfere with our ability to identify and consummate a transaction that might result from our sale review process. In addition, we expect that we will incur approximately $1.4 million in charges related to this reduction in force, all of which would result in cash expenditures for one-time employee termination benefits and associated costs, and these expenditures could cause the value of our company and our assets and the market price of our common stock to decline. As part of the assessment of internal control over financial reporting, a material weakness was identified and our management has concluded that, as of December 31, 2012, our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective. Any failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting or effective disclosure controls and procedures could adversely affect our ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information timely and accurately. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”)). As disclosed in Item 9A. Controls and Procedures of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting was identified. A material weakness is a control deficiency, or a combination of control deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. This material weakness related to accounting for non-routine complex technical accounting matters. Our management concluded that as of December 31, 2012 our internal control over financial reporting was not effective because of the existence of this material weakness. In light of this material weakness, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer also concluded that, as of December 31, 2012, our disclosure controls and procedures were ineffective. In light of this material weakness, we have taken steps to remediate our review process related to accounting for non-routine complex technical accounting matters. While we believe these steps have improved the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, our remediation efforts could be insufficient to address the material weakness and additional material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting could be identified in the future. Any failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting or effective disclosure controls and procedures could adversely affect our ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information timely and accurately, which could adversely affect our ability to identify and consummate a transaction that might result from our sale review process and could therefore cause the market price of our common stock to decline. As a result of the reduction in our workforce that was contemplated in our December 2012 announcement, we are in the process of reallocating certain employment responsibilities and may outsource certain corporate functions which could make us more dependent on third-parties to perform these corporate functions. As a result of the reduction in our workforce that was contemplated in our December 2012 announcement, we may be required to outsource certain corporate functions, which will make us more dependent on third-parties for the performance of these functions. In addition, this reduction in our workforce has had a negative impact on our ability to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and effective disclosure controls and procedures. To the extent that we are unable to effectively reallocate employee responsibilities, retain key employees, maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and effective disclosure controls and procedures, establish and maintain agreements with competent third-party contractors on terms that are acceptable to us, or effectively manage the work performed by any retained third-party contractors, our ability to identify and consummate a transaction that might result from our sale review process could be adversely affected. 20 We may be subject to a variety of types of product liability or other claims based on allegations that the use of our product candidates by participants in our clinical trials has resulted in adverse effects, and our insurance may not cover all product liability or other claims. We may face liability claims related to the use or misuse of our product candidates in previously conducted clinical trials. These claims may be expensive to defend and may result in large judgments against us. Any such claims against us, regardless of their merit, might result in significant costs to defend or awards against us, and our insurance coverage and resources may not be sufficient to satisfy any liability resulting from such claims. A successful product liability or other claim brought against us could cause the market price of our common stock to decline and, if judgments exceed our insurance coverage, could decrease our cash and materially harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. We depend on patents and proprietary rights, which may offer only limited protection against potential infringement and the development of competing products. The pharmaceutical industry places considerable importance on obtaining patent and trade secret protection for new technologies, products and processes. If we are unable to obtain and enforce patent protection for our product candidates or to maintain the confidentiality of our trade secrets, the value of our intellectual property portfolio could be harmed and our ability to identify and consummate a transaction that might result from our sale review process could be adversely affected. We have an extensive portfolio of issued U.S. patents and filed applications, many of which have foreign counterparts. In addition, under our license agreements, we have exclusively licensed patents related to our HIF-1 alpha, and AR antagonists and our other LNA compounds. Although we believe that our patents provide certain protection from competition, such patents may not provide substantial protection or commercial benefit to us, or afford us adequate protection from competing products, and may be challenged or declared invalid. In addition, U.S. patents or foreign patent equivalents may not be issued to us in the future. Issued patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. In addition, court decisions may introduce uncertainty as to the enforceability or scope of patents owned by biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, including us. The legal systems of certain countries do not favor the aggressive enforcement of patents, and the laws of foreign countries may not protect our rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. Therefore, enforceability or scope of our patents in the U.S. or in foreign countries cannot be predicted with certainty, and, as a result, any patents that we own or license may not provide sufficient protection against competitors. In addition, we may not be able to obtain or maintain a patent from our pending patent applications, those we may file in the future, or those we may license from third parties. We believe that our patent rights are enforceable. However, those rights may prove unenforceable or invalid, or will expire. If we are not able to protect our patent positions, our business and financial condition, as well as our ability to identify and consummate a transaction that might result from our sale review process could be adversely affected. We may become aware that certain organizations are engaging in activities that infringe certain of our patents, including our PEGylation technology patents. We may be unable to enforce our patents and other rights against such organizations. Legal or administrative proceedings may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend against claims of infringement. We have in the past been involved in patent litigation and other proceedings and we may likely become involved in additional patent litigation or proceedings in the future. If we become involved in any such litigation or proceeding, irrespective of the outcome, we may incur substantial costs, the efforts of our technical and management personnel may be diverted, and such disputes could substantially delay or prevent our product development or commercialization activities, which could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The patents upon which our original PEGylation technology was based have expired and, as a result, the scope of our patent protection is narrower. The U.S and corresponding foreign patents upon which our original PEGylation technology was based expired in 1996. Without that patent protection, other parties are permitted to make, use or sell products covered by the claims of those patents, subject to other patents, including those which we hold. We have obtained numerous patents with claims covering improved methods of attaching or linking PEG to therapeutic compounds. However, these patents may not 21 enable us to prevent competition or competitors may develop alternative methods of attaching PEG to compounds potentially resulting in competitive products outside the protection that may be afforded by our patents. We are aware that others have also filed patent applications and have been granted patents in the U.S. and other countries with respect to the application of PEG to proteins and other compounds. We are party to license and other collaboration agreements that contain complex commercial terms that could result in disputes, litigation or indemnification liability that could cause the value of our company and our assets and the market price of our common stock to decline. We are party to license, collaboration and other agreements with biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. These agreements contain complex commercial terms, including royalties on drug sales based on a number of complex variables (including net sales calculations, geography, scope of patent claim coverage, patent life and other factors) and indemnification obligations. From time to time, we may have dispute resolution discussions with third parties regarding the appropriate interpretation of the complex commercial terms contained in our agreements. One or more disputes may arise or escalate in the future regarding our agreements that may ultimately result in costly litigation and unfavorable interpretation of contract terms, which could cause the value of our company and our assets and the market price of our common stock to decline. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock and our Convertible Notes The price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile, which also may significantly affect the trading price of our 4% convertible notes due 2013. Historically, the market price of our common stock has fluctuated over a wide range, and it is likely that the price of our common stock will continue to be volatile in the future. The market price of our common stock could be impacted due to a variety of factors, including, in addition to global and industry-wide events: ·the status of our sale review process and our ability to identify and consummate a transaction that might result from our sale review process; ·any announcement of a decision to pursue any specific transaction that might result from our sale review process or to terminate our sale review process without pursuing a transaction; ·the level of revenues we generate from royalties we receive; ·changes in our business strategy; ·the losses we may incur; ·developments in patent or other proprietary rights owned or licensed by us, our collaborative partners or our competitors; ·the ability to partner, sell or out-license rights to our programs on favorable terms; ·public concern as to the safety and efficacy of products developed by us or others; and ·litigation. In addition, due to one or more of the foregoing factors in one or more future quarters, our results of operations may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In that event, the market price of our common stock could materially decline. Volatility in the price of our common stock may significantly affect the trading price of our 4% convertible notes. Events with respect to our capital stock could cause the number of shares of our common stock outstanding to increase and thereby cause our stockholders to suffer significant dilution. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the open market, or the availability of such shares for sale, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2012, we had 43,674,170 shares of common stock outstanding. As of that date, the following securities that may be exercised for, or are convertible into, shares of our common stock were outstanding: ·4% convertible notes. As of December 31, 2012, our 4% convertible notes could be converted into 17.1 million shares of our common stock at a conversion price of $6.76 per share. 22 ·Options. Stock options to purchase 2.3 million shares of our common stock at a weighted average exercise price of approximately $8.93 per share. ·Restricted stock units. Approximately 0.9 million shares of our common stock are issuable in respect of outstanding restricted stock units held by officers, employees and directors. The shares of our common stock issuable upon the exercise of options, the settlement of restricted stock units and the conversion of our 4% convertible notes are currently registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and, therefore, once those shares of common stock are issued, they may be eligible for public resale. As a result, if a large number of shares of our common stock are sold into the public market, or if there is an expectation of such sales, these sales or expectations of these sales could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The conversion of some or all of our 4% convertible notes will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the notes may encourage short selling by market participants which could depress the market price of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware corporate law may make it more difficult to acquire us, even though such acquisitions may be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware corporate law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even though such acquisitions may be beneficial to our stockholders. These anti-takeover provisions include: ·lack of a provision for cumulative voting in the election of directors; ·the ability of our board to authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; ·advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and ·limitations on who may call a special meeting of stockholders. The provisions described above and provisions of Delaware corporate law relating to business combinations with interested stockholders may discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us. These provisions may also discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring a large portion of our securities, or initiating a tender offer, even if our stockholders might receive a premium for their shares in the acquisition over the then current market price. We also have agreements with our executive officers that provide for change of control severance benefits which provides for cash severance, restricted stock, restricted stock units and option award vesting acceleration and other benefits in the event our employees are terminated (or, in some cases, resign for specified reasons) following an acquisition or other change in control. These agreements could discourage a third party from acquiring us. The issuance of preferred stock may adversely affect rights of our common stockholders. Under our certificate of incorporation, our board of directors has the authority to issue up to three million shares of “blank check” preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences and privileges of those shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to the rights of the holders of any shares of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. In addition to discouraging a takeover, as discussed above, this “blank check” preferred stock may have rights, including economic rights senior to the common stock, and, as a result, the issuance of such preferred stock could have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock. The market for unrated debt is subject to disruptions that could have an adverse effect on the market price of our 4% convertible notes, or a market for our notes may fail to develop or be sustained. Our 4% convertible notes are not rated. As a result, holders of the notes have the risks associated with an investment in unrated debt. Historically, the market for unrated debt has been subject to disruptions that have caused substantial volatility in the prices of such securities and greatly reduced liquidity for the holders of such securities. When 23 the notes are traded, they may trade at a discount from their initial offering price, depending on, among other things, prevailing interest rates, the markets for similar securities, general economic conditions and our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The liquidity of, and trading markets for, the notes also may be adversely affected by general declines in the market for unrated debt. Such declines may adversely affect the liquidity of, and trading markets for, the notes, independent of our financial performance or prospects. In addition, certain regulatory restrictions prohibit certain types of financial institutions from investing in unrated debt, which may further suppress demand for such securities. We cannot assure you that the market for the notes will not be subject to similar disruptions or that any market for our notes will develop or be sustained. Any such disruptions may have an adverse effect on the holders of the notes. Our 4% convertible notes mature on June 1, 2013 and the use of our cash to satisfy this debt will reduce our liquidity and capital resources. As of December 31, 2012, we had $115.8 million in aggregate principal amount of our 4% convertible notes outstanding. On June 1, 2013, the outstanding aggregate principal amount of our 4% convertible notes will become due and payable and we will be required to use our cash, cash equivalents and/or marketable securities to repay the notes at maturity, which will reduce our liquidity and capital resources. A small number of stockholders own a large percentage of our common stock and can influence the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval. A small number of our stockholders own a large percentage of our common stock and can therefore influence the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval. Based on information known to us as of the date of this report, our five largest stockholders collectively control a majority of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders collectively have the ability to influence the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including any transaction that might result from our sale review process and submitted to our stockholders for approval. These stockholders may support proposals and actions with which you may disagree. The concentration of ownership could also delay or prevent a change in control of our company or otherwise discourage a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of our company, which in turn could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. 24 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 