ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Throughout this Transition Report on Form 10-K, we have made forward-looking statements in an attempt to better enable the reader to understand our future prospects and make informed judgments. By their nature, forward-looking statements are subject to numerous factors that may influence outcomes or even prevent their eventual realization. Such factors may be external to Enzon and entirely outside our control. We cannot guarantee that our assumptions and expectations will be correct. Failure of events to be achieved or of certain underlying assumptions to prove accurate could cause actual results to vary materially from past results and those anticipated or projected. We undertake no obligation or intention to update forward-looking statements. Certain risks and uncertainties are discussed below. It is not possible to predict or identify all such factors, however. Accordingly, you should not consider this recitation to be complete. WE INCURRED A LOSS FOR THE SIX-MONTH PERIOD ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005 AND THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2005, AND WE EXPECT TO INCUR LOSSES OVER THE NEXT SEVERAL YEARS. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $403.9 million. During the six-month period ended December 31, 2005 and the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005 we incurred net losses of $291.3 million and $89.6 million, respectively. Our net loss in the most recent six-month period was primarily attributable to a write-down of goodwill and a write-down of intangible assets associated with ABELCET. Our net loss in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005 was primarily the result of lower sales of ABELCET and a $78.0 million charge we incurred to increase our valuation allowance associated with our deferred tax assets based upon our assessment that it was not more likely than not that we would benefit from these assets. The lower ABELCET sales were caused by increasingly competitive conditions in the intravenous antifungal market. We are currently investing in new programs to better support ABELCET and our other marketed brands; however, we cannot predict the ultimate success of such programs or when our business will return to profitability, if ever. Our ability to return to profitability will depend primarily on Schering-Plough's effective marketing of PEG-INTRON and our effective marketing of ABELCET, as well as on the rate of growth in our other product sales or royalty revenues and on the level of our expenses. Our ability to achieve long-term profitability will depend upon our and our licensees' ability to develop and obtain regulatory approvals for additional product candidates. Even if our product candidates receive regulatory approval, we cannot assure you that our products will achieve market acceptance or will be marketed successfully or that our operations will sustain profitability. OUR BUSINESS IS HEAVILY DEPENDENT ON THE CONTINUED SALES OF PEG-INTRON AND ABELCET. IF REVENUES FROM EITHER OF THESE PRODUCTS FAIL TO INCREASE OR MATERIALLY DECLINE, OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS WILL BE MATERIALLY HARMED. Our results of operations are heavily dependent on the revenues derived from the sale and marketing of PEG-INTRON and ABELCET. Under our agreement with Schering-Plough, pursuant to which Schering-Plough applied our PEG technology to develop a modified form of Schering-Plough's INTRON A, we are receiving royalties on worldwide sales of PEG-INTRON. In December 2005, we made the decision to delay recognition of royalty revenues until actual amounts are known, resulting in no PEG-INTRON royalties being recorded in the quarter ended December 31, 2005. However, during October 2004 through September 2005, the most recent twelve-month period for which we have actual royalty revenue information, total royalties comprised approximately 32% of our total revenues. During 2002, Hoffmann-LaRoche received FDA and European Union approval for PEGASYS, a competing PEGylated interferon-based combination therapy that competes with PEG-INTRON in the United States and all international markets. Hoffman-LaRoche's marketing and sales efforts in support of PEGASYS have 30 resulted in significant competitive pressure on PEG-INTRON sales. PEGASYS has continued to take market share away from PEG INTRON and the overall market for PEGylated alpha-interferon for the treatment of hepatitis C has been contracting. As a result, sales of PEG-INTRON in certain markets where it competes with PEGASYS and the royalties we receive on those sales have declined. We cannot assure you that PEGASYS will not continue to gain market share at the expense of PEG-INTRON which could result in lower PEG-INTRON sales and lower royalties to us. In the quarter ended December 2004, Schering-Plough received approval for, and launched, PEG-INTRON in combination with REBETOL in Japan. In September 2005, Hoffmann-LaRoche reported that PEGASYS combination therapy would receive a fast-track review in Japan and approval is expected during the third quarter of calendar year 2006. Hoffmann-La Roche's subsidiary (Chugai Pharmaceutical Co. LTD) currently markets other pharmaceutical products in Japan. Even if Schering-Plough is able to successfully market PEG-INTRON in Japan prior to the approval and launch of PEGASYS in Japan, it is likely that the launch in Japan of PEGASYS will have a negative impact on PEG-INTRON's Japanese market share and sales. We cannot assure you that Schering-Plough will be successful in marketing PEG-INTRON. The amount and timing of resources dedicated by Schering-Plough to the marketing of PEG-INTRON is not within our control. If Schering-Plough breaches or terminates its agreement with us, the sale of PEG-INTRON could be slowed or blocked completely. Our revenues will be negatively affected if Schering-Plough cannot meet the manufacturing demands of the market. During the six-month period ended December 31, 2005, ABELCET sales in the U.S. and Canada accounted for $21.1 million, or approximately 29% of our total revenue. For the year ended June 30, 2005, ABELCET sales were $51.2 million, or approximately 31% of our total revenues. ABELCET sales for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004 were $67.7 million, or 40% of our total revenues. We expect that ABELCET will account for a significant portion of our future total revenues. The continued sale of newer products from Merck and Pfizer in the antifungal market, as well as the entry of a new product from Astellas Pharma (formerly Fujisawa Healthcare, Inc.), have negatively impacted ABELCET sales, as clinicians utilize these other therapeutic agents. Pfizer and Schering-Plough are each expected to obtain approval for and introduce an additional new product in the antifungal market within the next year. In addition, Astellas Pharma and Gilead Pharmaceuticals are currently marketing AMBISOME, and Three Rivers Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is marketing AMPHOTEC, each of which is a lipid-based version of amphotericin B, for the treatment of fungal infections. AMBISOME and AMPHOTEC compete with ABELCET which has resulted in greater competitive pressure on ABELCET sales. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005 and the six months ended December 31, 2005, we experienced increasing pricing pressure with respect to ABELCET. In particular, Astellas Pharma and Gilead Sciences, Inc., have aggressively lowered the price of their product in certain regions and for certain customers in the U.S. This has resulted in the shrinkage or loss of certain of our customer accounts. During the six months ended December 31, 2005, U.S. and Canadian ABELCET sales decreased to $21.1 million or 32% as compared to the same period in 2004. This follows a $16.5 million or 24% decrease in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005 compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004. While we are developing and implementing strategies to address the competitive threats facing ABELCET, we cannot assure you that we will be able to increase sales of ABELCET or prevent further decreases in ABELCET sales. WE DEPEND ON OUR COLLABORATIVE PARTNERS. IF WE LOSE OUR COLLABORATIVE PARTNERS OR THEY DO NOT APPLY ADEQUATE RESOURCES TO OUR COLLABORATIONS, OUR PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE MAY SUFFER. We rely heavily and will depend heavily in the future on collaborations with collaborative partners, primarily pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, for one or more of the research, development, manufacturing, marketing and other commercialization activities relating to many of our product candidates. If we lose our collaborative partners, or if they do not apply adequate resources to our collaborations, our product development and financial performance may suffer. 31 The amount and timing of resources dedicated by our collaborators to their collaborations with us is not within our control. If any collaborator breaches or terminates its agreements with us, or fails to conduct its collaborative activities in a timely manner, the commercialization of our product candidates could be slowed or blocked completely. We cannot assure you that our collaborative partners will not change their strategic focus or pursue alternative technologies or develop alternative products as a means for developing treatments for the diseases targeted by these collaborative programs. Our collaborators could develop competing products. We cannot assure you that our collaborations will be successful. Disputes may arise between us and our collaborators as to a variety of matters, including financing obligations under our agreements and ownership of intellectual property rights. These disputes may be both expensive and time-consuming and may result in delays in the development and commercialization of products. WE WILL NEED TO OBTAIN ADDITIONAL FINANCING TO MEET OUR FUTURE CAPITAL NEEDS AND REPAY OUR OUTSTANDING DEBT, AND THIS FINANCING MAY NOT BE AVAILABLE WHEN WE NEED IT. Our current development projects and marketing initiatives require substantial capital. We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and investments and our anticipated cash flow from operations will be adequate to satisfy our capital needs for the near future, but we will likely need to increase our cash flow from operations or obtain financing to meet our future capital needs, which we expect will be substantial. We will require substantial additional funds to conduct research activities, preclinical studies, clinical trials and other activities relating to the successful commercialization of potential products. In addition, we may seek to acquire additional products, technologies and companies, which could require substantial capital. The competitive pressures impacting PEG-INTRON and ABELCET may cause our cash flow from operations to decrease rather than increase in the future and we cannot be sure that additional funds from other sources will be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If adequate funds are unavailable from operations or additional sources of financing, we may have to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our research or development programs or one or more of our proposed acquisitions of technologies or companies, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operations. As of December 31, 2005, we had $394.0 million of Convertible Subordinated Notes outstanding that bear interest at an annual rate of 4.5%. The notes will mature on July 1, 2008 unless earlier converted, redeemed at our option, or redeemed at the option of the note-holder upon a default by us or fundamental change, each as described in the indenture for the notes. To date we have been able to pay the interest due on these notes from our cash flow from operations or our cash reserves. Our current cash reserves are insufficient to repay the principal amount of this debt in full and we do not anticipate that we will be able to generate sufficient cash from operations to repay this debt in full by the maturity date. We will be required to repay the notes at maturity unless we can refinance the debt or the noteholders convert their notes into common stock before the maturity date. Our notes are convertible into common stock at a price of $70.98 per share. Noteholders will be unlikely to convert their notes unless our stock price rises above the conversion price of the notes. On March 1, 2006 the closing price of our common stock on the Nasdaq National Market was $6.84 per share. We expect that we will need to refinance or obtain new financing to pay at least a significant portion of this principal amount of these notes. We currently are considering financing alternatives; however, we cannot be certain that any of such financing alternatives will be consummated on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We may seek to raise any necessary additional funds through equity or debt financings, collaborative arrangements with corporate partners or other sources which may be dilutive to existing stockholders. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain additional funds on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. 32 WE HAVE A SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF INDEBTEDNESS. At December 31, 2005, our long-term debt was $394.0 million. This indebtedness has affected us by: o significantly increasing our interest expense and related debt service costs, and o making it more difficult to obtain additional financing. We may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to satisfy the annual debt service payments that will be required under our 4.5% subordinated convertible notes. This may require us to use a portion of the proceeds of the notes to pay interest or borrow additional funds or sell additional equity to meet our debt service obligations. If we are unable to satisfy our debt service requirements, substantial liquidity problems could result, which would negatively impact our future prospects. WE HAVE LIMITED MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION CAPABILITIES. We have an approximately 70-person U.S. pharmaceutical sales and marketing organization to support our products and we generally compete with organizations that have significantly greater resources devoted to the marketing and sales of their products. Our marketing and sales efforts may be unable to compete successfully against such other companies. We may be required to seek one or more corporate partners to augment our marketing and sales efforts with respect to future products. Any delay in developing these resources or obtaining corporate partners could substantially delay or curtail the marketing of such products. In addition, we have agreements with third-party distributors to distribute our products. If our distributors do not perform their obligations, our ability to distribute our products may be severely restricted. WE PURCHASE SOME OF THE COMPOUNDS UTILIZED IN OUR PRODUCTS FROM A SINGLE SOURCE OR A LIMITED GROUP OF SUPPLIERS, AND THE PARTIAL OR COMPLETE LOSS OF ONE OF THESE SUPPLIERS COULD CAUSE PRODUCTION DELAYS AND A SUBSTANTIAL LOSS OF REVENUES. We purchase the unmodified compounds and bulk PEGs utilized in our approved products and products under development from outside suppliers. We may be required to enter into supply contracts with outside suppliers for certain unmodified compounds. For example, we have agreements with Ovation Pharmaceutical, Inc., by assignment from Merck & Co., Inc., and Kyowa Hakko to produce the unmodified forms of L-asparaginase used in the manufacture of ONCASPAR. We purchase the unmodified adenosine deaminase enzyme used in the manufacturing of ADAGEN from Roche Diagnostics; however, we no longer have a supply agreement with Roche Diagnostics. We have two suppliers that produce the amphotericin B used in the manufacture of ABELCET, Bristol-Myers Squibb and Alpharma A.p.S. We have a supply agreement with Bristol-Myers Squibb, but not with Alpharma. If we experience a delay in obtaining or are unable to obtain any unmodified compound on reasonable terms, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We purchase the lipids used in the manufacture of ABELCET and the PEGs used in the manufacture of ONCASPAR and ADAGEN from a limited number of suppliers. We do not have formal supply agreements with any of these suppliers. No assurance can be given that alternative suppliers with appropriate regulatory authorizations could be readily identified if necessary. If we experience delays in obtaining or are unable to obtain any such raw materials on reasonable terms, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are required to obtain an alternate source for an unmodified compound utilized in a product, the FDA and relevant foreign regulatory agencies will likely require that we perform additional testing to demonstrate that the alternate material is biologically and chemically equivalent to the unmodified compound previously used in our clinical trials. This testing could delay or stop development of a product, limit commercial sales of an approved product, and cause us to incur significant additional expenses. If we are unable to demonstrate that the alternate material is chemically and biologically equivalent to the previously used unmodified compound, we will likely be required to repeat some or all of the preclinical and clinical trials conducted for the compound. The marketing of an FDA approved drug could be disrupted while such tests are conducted. Even if the alternate material is shown to be chemically and biologically equivalent to the previously used compound, the FDA or relevant foreign regulatory agency may require that we conduct additional clinical trials with the alternate material. 33 The period covered by our supply agreement with Ovation Pharmaceuticals for L-asparaginase for the manufacture of ONCASPAR for the U.S. and Canadian markets will conclude on December 31, 2006. If we are unable to successfully renew our supply agreement for L-asparaginase for these markets, it will have a potentially negative impact on our business and results of operations. Roche Diagnostics, which is based in Germany, is the only FDA-approved supplier of the adenosine deaminase enzyme, or ADA, used in ADAGEN. During 2002 we obtained FDA approval of the use of the ADA enzyme obtained from bovine intestines from cattle of New Zealand origin. New Zealand currently certifies that its cattle are bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE or mad cow disease) free. Beginning in September 2002, the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) required all animal-sourced materials shipped to the U.S. from any European country to contain a veterinary certificate that the product is BSE free, regardless of the country of origin. In September 2003, Roche Diagnostics notified us that it has elected to terminate our ADA supply agreement. We are currently seeking to develop recombinant ADA as an alternative to the bovine derived product. This is a difficult and expensive undertaking as to which success cannot be assured. Roche Diagnostics has indicated that it will continue to supply us with our requirements of ADA for a reasonable period of time after termination of our supply agreement as we work to develop another source of ADA. If we are unable to secure an alternative source of ADA before Roche Diagnostics discontinues supplying the material to us, we will likely experience inventory shortages and potentially a period of product unavailability or a long term inability to produce ADAGEN. If this occurs, it will have a measurable (and potentially material) negative impact on our business and results of operations and it could potentially result in significant reputational harm and regulatory difficulties. We have received a notice from Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (BMS) terminating our amphotericin B supply agreement with BMS effective March 1, 2006. We currently have an alternative source of supply of amphotericin B and are seeking to qualify at least one additional source of supply. The termination by BMS may give rise to future increased costs for the acquisition of amphotericin B, as well as increased capital expenditures related to readying a new supplier's facilities for cGMP production and regulatory approval of ABELCET incorporating the alternative amphotericin B. Although there can be no assurance as to the timing of these increased costs and additional capital expenditures, we anticipate that these may be incurred beginning in calendar 2007. The FDA recently conducted an inspection of the manufacturing facility of Merck, and that inspection resulted in the issuance, on July 22, 2005, of a warning letter regarding applicable FDA current good manufacturing practice (cGMP) regulations. Despite the assignment of our supply agreement from Merck to Ovation Pharmaceuticals, Merck will continue to supply L-asparaginase to Ovation Pharmaceuticals during a transition period. If Merck is unable to satisfactorily resolve its current or future manufacturing problems, the FDA could require Merck to discontinue the manufacture and distribution of the unmodified form of L-asparaginase used in the manufacture of ONCASPAR, which could require us to discontinue the manufacture and distribution of ONCASPAR. In addition, if we cannot market and distribute ONCASPAR for an extended period, sales of the product and customer relationships will suffer, which would adversely affect our financial results. THERE IS A HIGH RISK THAT EARLY-STAGE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT MIGHT NOT GENERATE SUCCESSFUL PRODUCT CANDIDATES. In the past year we have terminated our clinical development efforts for, or relinquished our rights to, four clinical stage compounds, and we currently have no products in clinical trials. At the present time the vast majority of our research and development operations are focused on the early stages of product research and development. The research and development of pharmaceutical products is subject to high risk of failure. Most product development candidates fail to reach the market. Our success depends on the identification of new drugs or modified forms of existing drugs that we can successfully develop and commercialize. We do not expect any of the drugs resulting from our current research and development efforts to be commercially available for several years, if at all. In order to fill our pipeline of product candidates under development, we may attempt to acquire right to products under development by other companies. The competition for the acquisition of rights to products that are viewed as viable candidates for successful development and commercialization is intense and we will be competing for such opportunities with many companies with resources that are substantially greater than ours. Our potential products are subject to risks of failure inherent in the development of new pharmaceutical products. These risks include, but are not limited to, risks that the drug might prove ineffective or may cause harmful side-effects during pre-clinical testing or clinical trials, fails to receive necessary regulatory approvals, cannot be manufactured on a commercial scale basis and therefore may not be economical to produce, may fail to achieve market acceptance, or that we may be precluded from commercialization by proprietary rights of third parties. 34 OUR CLINICAL TRIALS COULD TAKE LONGER TO COMPLETE AND COST MORE THAN WE EXPECT. We will need to conduct significant clinical studies of all of our product candidates that have not yet been approved for sale. These studies are costly, time consuming and unpredictable. Moreover, statutes and regulations governing the conduct of clinical trials are subject to change in the future which could affect the cost of our clinical trials. Any unanticipated costs or delays in our clinical studies could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations, and might even result in discontinuation of clinical development of a particular product candidate. The rate of completion of clinical trials depends upon many factors, including the rate of enrollment of patients. Costly delays in the conduct and completion of key clinical studies could result from insufficient timely patient enrollment or from intervention by FDA, drug and safety monitoring boards, or institutional review boards. WE DEPEND ON THIRD PARTIES IN THE CONDUCT OF CLINICAL TRIALS AND ANY FAILURE OF THOSE PARTIES TO FULFILL THEIR OBLIGATIONS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR DEVELOPMENT AND COMMERCIALIZATION PLANS. We depend on independent clinical investigators, corporate collaborators, academic institutions, contract research organizations, and other third party service providers in the conduct of clinical trials. We rely heavily on these parties for successful execution of our clinical trials, but do not control many aspects of their activities. For example, the clinical investigators are not our employees. However, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocols for the trial. Third parties may not complete activities on schedule, or may not conduct our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our stated protocols. The failure of these third parties to carry out their obligations could delay or prevent the development and commercialization of future product candidates. WE DEPEND ON PATENTS AND PROPRIETARY RIGHTS, WHICH MAY OFFER ONLY LIMITED PROTECTION AGAINST POTENTIAL INFRINGEMENT AND THE DEVELOPMENT BY OUR COMPETITORS OF COMPETITIVE PRODUCTS. THE U.S. AND FOREIGN PATENTS UPON WHICH OUR ORIGINAL PEG TECHNOLOGY WAS BASED HAVE EXPIRED. The pharmaceutical industry places considerable importance on obtaining patent and trade secret protection for new technologies, products and processes. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to develop and maintain a strong patent position for our products and technologies both in the U.S. and in other countries. We currently hold 129 issued U.S. patents many of which have foreign counterparts. These patents, if extensions are not granted, are expected to expire beginning in 2006 through 2022. We have also filed and currently have pending 30 patent applications in the U.S. Under our license agreements, we have access to large portions of Micromet's and Nektar's patent estates as well as a small number of individually licensed patents. Of the patents owned or licensed by us, seven relate to PEG-INTRON, seventeen relate to ABELCET, and three relate to DEPOCYT. Although we believe that our patents provide certain protection from competition for ABELCET and DEPOCYT, we cannot assure you that such patents will be of substantial protection or commercial benefit to us, will afford us adequate protection from competing products, or will not be challenged or declared invalid. In addition, we cannot assure you that additional U.S. patents or foreign patent equivalents will be issued to us. The scope of patent claims for biotechnological inventions is uncertain, and our patents and patent applications are subject to this uncertainty. 35 We may become aware that certain organizations are engaging in activities that infringe certain of our PEG and SCA technology patents. We cannot assure you that we will be able to enforce our patent and other rights against such organizations. We expect that there will continue to be significant litigation in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries regarding patents and other proprietary rights. We have in the past been involved in patent litigation, and we may likely become involved in additional patent litigation in the future. We may incur substantial costs in asserting any patent rights and in defending suits against us related to intellectual property rights. Such disputes could substantially delay or prevent our product development or commercialization activities and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Research Corporation Technologies, Inc. held the patent upon which our original PEG technology was based and had granted us a license under such patent. Research Corporation's patent contained broad claims covering the attachment of PEG to polypeptides. However, this U.S. patent and its corresponding foreign patents expired in December 1996. Based upon the expiration of the Research Corporation patent, other parties will be permitted to make, use or sell products covered by the claims of the Research Corporation patent, subject to other patents, including those which we hold. We have obtained numerous patents with claims covering improved methods of attaching or linking PEG to therapeutic compounds. We cannot assure you that any of these patents will enable us to prevent infringement or that competitors will not develop alternative methods of attaching PEG to compounds potentially resulting in competitive products outside the protection that may be afforded by our patents. We are aware that others have also filed patent applications and have been granted patents in the U.S. and other countries with respect to the application of PEG to proteins and other compounds. However, other than Hoffmann-La Roche's PEGASYS, we are unaware of any other PEGylated products that compete with our PEGylated products. The expiration of the Research Corporation patent and the issuance of other patents related to PEG that have been granted to third parties may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. WE OR OUR SUPPLIERS COULD EXPERIENCE DELAYS OR DIFFICULTIES IN MANUFACTURING, INCLUDING PROBLEMS COMPLYING WITH THE FDA'S REGULATIONS FOR MANUFACTURING OUR PRODUCTS. THESE PROBLEMS COULD MATERIALLY HARM OUR BUSINESS. Manufacturers of drugs must comply with current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) regulations, which include quality control and quality assurance requirements as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation. Manufacturing facilities are subject to ongoing periodic inspection by the FDA and corresponding state agencies, including unannounced inspections of our commercial manufacturing facilities. We or our present or future suppliers may be unable to comply with the applicable cGMP regulations and other FDA regulatory requirements. ADAGEN and ONCASPAR, which we manufacture, use our earlier PEG technology which tends to be less stable than the PEG technology used in PEG-INTRON and our products under development. Due, in part, to the drawbacks in the earlier technologies we have had and may continue to have manufacturing problems with these products. Manufacturing and stability problems required us to implement voluntarily recalls for certain batches of ONCASPAR in June 2002, July 2004, September 2004, and March 2005. To date, we have been unable to identify the cause of the manufacturing and stability problems related to these batches. In addition to voluntary recalls, mandatory recalls can also take place if regulators or courts require them, even if we believe our products are safe and effective. Recalls result in lost sales of the recalled products themselves, and can result in further lost sales while replacement products are manufactured or due to customer dissatisfaction. We cannot assure you that future product recalls will not materially adversely affect our business, our financial conditions, results of operations or our reputation and relationships with our customers. 36 During 1998, we began to experience manufacturing problems with ONCASPAR. The problems were due to increased levels of white particulates in batches of ONCASPAR, which resulted in an increased rejection rate for this product. During fiscal 1999, we agreed with the FDA to temporary labeling and distribution restrictions for ONCASPAR and instituted additional inspection and labeling procedures prior to distribution. During May 1999, the FDA required us to limit distribution of ONCASPAR only to patients hypersensitive to native L-asparaginase. As a result of certain manufacturing changes we made, the FDA withdrew this distribution restriction in November 1999. In July 1999, the FDA conducted an inspection of our manufacturing facility in connection with our product license for ADAGEN. Following that inspection, the FDA documented several deviations from Current Good Manufacturing Practices, known as cGMP, in a Form 483 report. We provided the FDA with a corrective action plan. In November 1999, the FDA issued a warning letter citing the same cGMP deviations listed in the July 1999 Form 483, but it also stated that the FDA was satisfied with our proposed corrective actions. As a result of the deviations, the FDA decided not to approve product export requests from us for ONCASPAR until it determined that all noted cGMP deviations were either corrected or in the process of being corrected. This restriction was removed in August 2000. Since November 2002, the FDA and the MHRA, the British equivalent of the FDA, have conducted follow-up inspections, as well as routine inspections of our manufacturing facilities related to ABELCET, ONCASPAR and ADAGEN. Following certain of these inspections, the FDA has issued Form 483 reports citing deviations from cGMP, the most recent of which were issued in January 2006 for our New Jersey facility and August 2005 for our Indianapolis facility. We have or are in the process of responding to such reports with corrective action plans. We are aware that the FDA has conducted inspections of certain of the manufacturing facilities of Schering-Plough, and those inspections have resulted in the issuance of Form 483s citing deviations from cGMP. If we or our partners, including Schering-Plough, face additional manufacturing problems in the future or if we or our licensees are unable to satisfactorily resolve current or future manufacturing problems, the FDA could require us or our licensees to discontinue the distribution of our products or to delay continuation of clinical trials. WE MAY ACQUIRE OTHER COMPANIES OR PRODUCTS AND MAY BE UNABLE TO SUCCESSFULLY INTEGRATE SUCH COMPANIES WITH OUR OPERATIONS. We may expand and diversify our operations with acquisitions. If we are unsuccessful in integrating any such company or product with our operations, or if integration is more difficult than anticipated, we may experience disruptions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. WE DEPEND ON KEY PERSONNEL AND MAY NOT BE ABLE TO RETAIN THESE EMPLOYEES OR RECRUIT ADDITIONAL QUALIFIED PERSONNEL, WHICH WOULD HARM OUR BUSINESS. Because of the specialized scientific nature of our business, we are highly dependent upon qualified scientific, technical and managerial personnel including our Chief Executive Officer. There is intense competition for qualified personnel in the pharmaceutical field; therefore, we may not be able to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business. Although we have employment agreements with our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Scientific Officer, Senior Vice President responsible for our sales and marketing operations, and certain other executive officers, our ability to continue to retain such officers, as well as other senior executives or key managers is not assured. The loss of the services of one or a combination of our senior executives or key managers, particularly our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Scientific Officer, and Senior Vice President responsible for our sales and marketing operations, as well as the failure to recruit additional key scientific, technical and managerial personnel in a timely manner, would have an adverse effect on our business. 37 RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY WE FACE RAPID TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE AND INTENSE COMPETITION, WHICH COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. The biopharmaceutical industry is characterized by rapid technological change. Our future success will depend on our ability to maintain a competitive position with respect to technological advances. Rapid technological development by others may result in our products and technologies becoming obsolete. Many of our competitors have substantially greater research and development capabilities and experience and greater manufacturing, marketing and financial resources than we do. Accordingly, our competitors may develop technologies and products that are superior to those we or our collaborators are developing and render our technologies and products or those of our collaborators obsolete and noncompetitive. In addition, many of our competitors have much more experience than we do in preclinical testing and human clinical trials of new drugs, as well as obtaining FDA and other regulatory approval. If we cannot compete effectively, our business and financial performance would suffer. We face intense competition from established biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, as well as academic and research institutions that are pursuing competing technologies and products. We know that competitors are developing or manufacturing various products that are used for the prevention, diagnosis or treatment of diseases that we have targeted for product development. For example, in addition to increased competition from Hoffman LaRoche's PEGASYS, referred to above, Astellas Pharma and Gilead Pharmaceuticals are currently marketing AMBISOME, and Three Rivers Pharmaceuticals is marketing AMPHOTEC, each of which is a lipid-based version of amphotericin, for the treatment of fungal infections. PEGASYS competes with PEG-INTRON and AMBISOME and AMPHOTEC compete with ABELCET. DEPOCYT, an injectable, sustained release formulation of the chemotherapeutic agent cytarabine for the treatment of lymphomatous meningitis, competes with the generic drugs, cytarabine and methotrexate, and ONCASPAR, a PEG-enhanced version of a naturally occurring enzyme called L-asparaginase, competes with ELSPAR(R) (asparaginase) to treat patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Existing and future products, therapies and technological approaches will compete directly with our products. Current and prospective competing products may provide greater therapeutic benefits for a specific problem or may offer comparable performance at a lower cost. Any product candidate that we develop and that obtains regulatory approval must then compete for market acceptance and market share. WE ARE SUBJECT TO EXTENSIVE REGULATION. COMPLIANCE WITH THESE REGULATIONS CAN BE COSTLY, TIME CONSUMING AND SUBJECT US TO UNANTICIPATED DELAYS IN DEVELOPING OUR PRODUCTS. THE REGULATORY APPROVAL PROCESS IS HIGHLY UNCERTAIN AND WE MAY NOT SUCCESSFULLY SECURE APPROVAL FOR NEW PRODUCTS. The marketing of pharmaceutical products in the U.S. and abroad is subject to stringent governmental regulation. The sale of any of our products for use in humans in the U.S. will require the prior approval of the FDA. Similar approvals by comparable agencies are required in most foreign countries. The FDA has established mandatory procedures and safety standards that apply to the clinical testing and marketing of pharmaceutical products. Obtaining FDA approval for a new therapeutic product may take several years and involve substantial expenditures. We cannot assure you that we or our licensees will be able to obtain or maintain FDA or other relevant marketing approval for any of our other products. In addition, any approved products are subject to continuing regulation. If we or our licensees fail to comply with applicable requirements it could result in penalties, fines, recalls or other injunctive or oversight remedies. 38 DEPOCYT was approved under the Accelerated Approval regulations of Subpart H of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. These regulations are intended to make promising products for life-threatening diseases available to the market on the basis of preliminary evidence prior to formal demonstration of patient benefit. Approvals granted under Subpart H are provisional and require a written commitment to complete post-approval clinical studies that formally demonstrate patient benefit. Our licensor, SkyePharma, is responsible for conducting the required study. If the FDA determines that such post-approval clinical study fails to demonstrate patient benefit, the registration for DEPOCYT may be subject to withdrawal. If we or our licensees fail to obtain or maintain requisite governmental approvals or fail to obtain or maintain approvals of the scope requested, it will delay or preclude us or our licensees or marketing partners from marketing our products. It could also limit the commercial use of our products. Any such failure or limitation may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. EVEN IF WE OBTAIN REGULATORY APPROVAL FOR OUR PRODUCTS, THEY MAY NOT BE ACCEPTED IN THE MARKETPLACE. The commercial success of our products will depend upon their acceptance by the medical community and third-party payors as clinically useful, cost-effective and safe. Even if our products obtain regulatory approval, we cannot assure you that they will achieve market acceptance of any kind. The degree of market acceptance will depend on many factors, including: o the receipt, timing and scope of regulatory approvals, o the timing of market entry in comparison with potentially competitive products, o the availability of third-party reimbursement, and o the establishment and demonstration in the medical community of the clinical safety, efficacy and cost-effectiveness of drug candidates, as well as their advantages over existing technologies and therapeutics. If any of our products do not achieve market acceptance, we will likely lose our entire investment in that product, giving rise to a material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. IF PRECLINICAL AND CLINICAL TRIALS DO NOT YIELD POSITIVE RESULTS, OUR PRODUCT CANDIDATES WILL FAIL. If preclinical and clinical testing of one or more of our product candidates does not demonstrate the safety and efficacy of product candidates for the desired indications, those potential products will fail. Numerous unforeseen events may arise during, or as a result of, the testing process, including the following: o the results of preclinical studies may be inconclusive, or they may not be indicative of results that will be obtained in human clinical trials, o potential products may not have the desired effect or may have undesirable side effects or other characteristics that preclude regulatory approval or limit their commercial use if approved, o results attained in early human clinical trials may not be indicative of results that are obtained in later clinical trials, and 39 o after reviewing test results, we or our strategic partners may abandon projects which we might previously have believed to be promising. Clinical testing is very costly and can take many years. The failure to demonstrate adequately the safety and efficacy of a therapeutic product under development would delay or prevent regulatory approval, which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. OUR OPERATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO EXTENSIVE ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS AND REGULATIONS. Our operations are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations concerning, among other things, the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of hazardous, toxic and radioactive substances and the discharge of pollutants into the air and water. Environmental permits and controls are required for some of our operations and these permits are subject to modification, renewal and revocation by the issuing authorities. We believe that our facilities are in substantial compliance with our permits and environmental laws and regulations and do not believe that future compliance with current environmental law will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If, however, we were to become liable for an accident, or if we were to suffer an extended facility shutdown as a result of such contamination, we could incur significant costs, damages and penalties that could harm our business. WE MAY BE SUBJECT TO A VARIETY OF TYPES OF PRODUCT LIABILITY OR OTHER CLAIMS BASED ON ALLEGATIONS THAT THE USE OF OUR PRODUCTS HAS RESULTED IN ADVERSE EFFECTS, WHETHER BY PARTICIPANTS IN OUR CLINICAL TRIALS OR BY PATIENTS USING OUR PRODUCTS. Although we maintain product liability insurance for claims arising from the use of our products in clinical trials prior to FDA approval and for claims arising from the use of our products after FDA approval at levels that we believe are appropriate, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our existing insurance coverage or obtain additional coverage on commercially reasonable terms for the use of our other products in the future. Also, our insurance coverage and our resources may not be sufficient to satisfy any liability resulting from product liability claims, and a product liability claim may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. BECAUSE OF THE UNCERTAINTY OF PHARMACEUTICAL PRICING, REIMBURSEMENT AND HEALTHCARE REFORM MEASURES, WE MAY BE UNABLE TO SELL OUR PRODUCTS PROFITABLY IN THE U.S. The availability of reimbursement by governmental and other third-party payors affects the market for any pharmaceutical product. In recent years, there have been numerous proposals to change the healthcare system in the U.S. and further proposals are likely. Some of these proposals have included measures that would limit or eliminate payments for medical procedures and treatments or subject the pricing of pharmaceuticals to government control. In addition, government and private third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both the coverage and the level of reimbursement of drug products. For example, under the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (the Act), Medicare benefits are provided primarily through private entities that attempt to negotiate price concessions from pharmaceutical manufacturers. This may increase pressure to lower prescription drug prices. The Act also includes other cost containment measures for Medicare in the event Medicare cost increases exceed a certain level, which measures may impose limitations on prescription drug prices. These changes in Medicare reimbursement could have a negative impact on our revenues derived from sales of our products. Moreover, significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly-approved health care products. Our ability to commercialize our products will depend, in part, on the extent to which reimbursement for the cost of the products and related treatments will be available from third-party payors. If we or any of our collaborators succeeds in bringing one or more products to market, we cannot assure you that third-party payors will establish and maintain price levels sufficient for realization of an appropriate return on our investment in product development. In addition, lifetime limits on benefits included in most private health plans may force patients to self-pay for treatment. For example, patients who receive ADAGEN are expected to require injections for their entire lives. The cost of this treatment may exceed certain plan limits and cause patients to self-fund further treatment. Furthermore, inadequate third-party coverage may lead to reduced market acceptance of our products. Significant changes in the healthcare system in the U.S. or elsewhere could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. 40 THE LAW OR FDA POLICY COULD CHANGE AND EXPOSE US TO COMPETITION FROM "GENERIC" OR "FOLLOW-ON" VERSIONS OF OUR PRODUCTS, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR BUSINESS. Under current U.S. law and FDA policy, generic versions of conventional chemical drug compounds, sometimes referred to as small molecule compounds, may be approved through an abbreviated approval process. There is no abbreviated approval process under current law for biological products approved under the Public Health Service Act through a BLA, such as monoclonal antibodies, cytokines, growth factors, enzymes, interferons and certain other proteins. However, various proposals have been made to establish an abbreviated approval process to permit approval of generic or follow-on versions of these types of biological products under U.S. law, and the FDA's counterpart in the European Union has recently approved the first such follow-on biological. For example, some have proposed that the FDA allow a generic or follow-on copy of certain therapeutic biologics to be approved under an existing mechanism known as a 505(b)(2) application. A 505(b)(2) application is a form of an NDA, where the applicant does not have a right to reference some of the data being relied upon for approval. Under current regulations, 505(b)(2) applications can be used where the applicant is relying in part on published literature or on findings of safety or effectiveness in another company's NDA. 505(b)(2) applications have not been used to date for therapeutic biologic products. In addition, the use of 505(b)(2) applications even for conventional chemical drug products is the subject of ongoing legal challenge. It is thus not clear what the permitted use of a 505(b)(2) application might be in the future for biologics products, or whether any other proposals on generic or follow-on biologics will be adopted. However, if the law is changed or if the FDA somehow extends its existing authority in new ways, and third parties are permitted to obtain approvals of versions of our products through an abbreviated approval mechanism, and without conducting full clinical studies of their own, it could adversely affect our business. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK, PREFERRED STOCK AND SUBORDINATED NOTES THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK HAS BEEN, AND MAY CONTINUE TO BE, VOLATILE WHICH MAY SIGNIFICANTLY AFFECT THE TRADING PRICE OF OUR NOTES. Historically, the market price of our common stock has fluctuated over a wide range, and it is likely that the price of our common stock will fluctuate in the future. The market price of our common stock could be impacted due to a variety of factors, including, in addition to global and industry-wide events: o the level of revenues we generate from our sale of products and royalties we receive, o the losses we incur or the profits we generate, o the results of preclinical testing and clinical trials by us, our corporate partners or our competitors, o announcements of technical innovations or new products by us, our corporate partners or our competitors, o the status of corporate collaborations and supply arrangements, o regulatory approvals, 41 o developments in patent or other proprietary rights, o public concern as to the safety and efficacy of products developed by us or others, and o litigation. In addition, due to one or more of the foregoing factors in one or more future quarters, our results of operations may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In that event, the market price of our common stock could be materially and adversely affected. EVENTS WITH RESPECT TO OUR SHARE CAPITAL COULD CAUSE THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK TO DECLINE. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the open market, or the availability of such shares for sale, could adversely affect the price of our common stock. An adverse effect on the price of our common stock may adversely affect the trading price of the notes. We had 43.8 million shares of common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2005. The following securities that may be exercised for, or are convertible into, shares of our common stock were issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2005: o Options. Stock options to purchase 6.1 million shares of our common stock at a weighted average exercise price of approximately $14.17 per share; and o Convertible Subordinated Notes. Notes which will convert to 5.6 million shares of our common stock at a conversion price of $70.98 as of such date. o Restricted stock units. 0.8 million shares of our common stock issuable in respect of outstanding restricted stock units held by officers, employees and directors. The shares of our common stock that may be issued under the options are currently registered with the SEC. The shares of common stock that may be issued upon conversion of the Convertible Subordinated Notes are eligible for sale without any volume limitations pursuant to Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act. THE ISSUANCE OF PREFERRED STOCK MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT RIGHTS OF COMMON STOCKHOLDERS OR DISCOURAGE A TAKEOVER. Under our certificate of incorporation, our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 3.0 million shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences and privileges of those shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any shares of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. In May 2002, our board of directors authorized shares of Series B Preferred Stock in connection with its adoption of a stockholder rights plan, under which we issued rights to purchase Series B Preferred Stock to holders of the common stock. Upon certain triggering events, such rights become exercisable to purchase common stock (or, in the discretion of our board of directors, Series B Preferred Stock) at a price substantially discounted from the then current market price of the Common Stock. Our stockholder rights plan could generally discourage a merger or tender offer involving our securities that is not approved by our board of directors by increasing the cost of effecting any such transaction and, accordingly, could have an adverse impact on stockholders who might want to vote in favor of such merger or participate in such tender offer. While we have no present intention to authorize any additional series of preferred stock, such issuance, while providing desirable flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could also have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. The preferred stock may have other rights, including economic rights senior to the Common Stock, and, as a result, the issuance thereof could have a material adverse effect on the market value of the common stock. 42 OUR NOTES ARE SUBORDINATED TO ALL EXISTING AND FUTURE INDEBTEDNESS. Our 4.5% convertible subordinated notes are unsecured and subordinated in right of payment to all of our existing and future senior indebtedness. In the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization, or upon acceleration of the notes due to an event of default under the indenture and in certain other events, our assets will be available to pay obligations on the notes only after all senior indebtedness has been paid. As a result, there may not be sufficient assets remaining to pay amounts due on any or all of the outstanding notes. We are not prohibited from incurring debt, including senior indebtedness, under the indenture. If we were to incur additional debt or liabilities, our ability to pay our obligations on the notes could be adversely affected. As of December 31, 2005, we had no senior indebtedness outstanding. WE MAY BE UNABLE TO REDEEM OUR NOTES UPON A FUNDAMENTAL CHANGE. We may be unable to redeem our 4.5% subordinated convertible notes in the event of a fundamental change (defined below). Upon a fundamental change, holders of the notes may require us to redeem all or a portion of the notes. If a fundamental change were to occur, we may not have enough funds to pay the redemption price for all tendered notes. Any future credit agreements or other agreements relating to our indebtedness may contain similar provisions, or expressly prohibit the repurchase of the notes upon a fundamental change or may provide that a fundamental change constitutes an event of default under that agreement. If a fundamental change occurs at a time when we are prohibited from purchasing or redeeming notes, we could seek the consent of our lenders to redeem the notes or could attempt to refinance this debt. If we do not obtain a consent, we could not purchase or redeem the notes. Our failure to redeem tendered notes would constitute an event of default under the indenture. In such circumstances, or if a fundamental change would constitute an event of default under our senior indebtedness, the subordination provisions of the indenture would restrict payments to the holders of notes. A "fundamental change" is any transaction or event (whether by means of an exchange offer, liquidation, tender offer, consolidation, merger, combination, reclassification, recapitalization or otherwise) in connection with which all or substantially all of our common stock is exchanged for, converted into, acquired for or constitutes solely the right to receive, consideration which is not all or substantially all common stock that: o is listed on, or immediately after the transaction or event will be listed on, a U.S. national securities exchange, or o is approved, or immediately after the transaction or event will be approved, for quotation on The NASDAQ National Market or any similar U.S. system of automated dissemination of quotations of securities prices. The term fundamental change is limited to certain specified transactions and may not include other events that might adversely affect our financial condition or the market value of the notes or our common stock. Our obligation to offer to redeem the notes upon a fundamental change would not necessarily afford holders of the notes protection in the event of a highly leveraged transaction, reorganization, merger or similar transaction involving us. THE MARKET FOR UNRATED DEBT IS SUBJECT TO DISRUPTIONS THAT COULD HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON THE MARKET PRICE OF THE NOTES, OR A MARKET FOR OUR NOTES MAY FAIL TO DEVELOP OR BE SUSTAINED. Our 4.5% subordinated convertible notes have not been rated. As a result, holders of the notes have the risks associated with an investment in unrated debt. Historically, the market for unrated debt has been subject to disruptions that have caused substantial volatility in the prices of such securities and greatly reduced liquidity for the holders of such securities. If the notes are traded, they may trade at a discount from their initial offering price, depending on, among other things, prevailing interest rates, the markets for similar securities, general economic conditions and our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The liquidity of, and trading markets for, the notes also may be adversely affected by general declines in the market for unrated debt. Such declines may adversely affect the liquidity of, and trading markets for, the notes, independent of our financial performance or prospects. In addition, certain regulatory restrictions prohibit certain types of financial institutions from investing in unrated debt, which may further suppress demand for such securities. We cannot assure you that the market for the notes will not be subject to similar disruptions or that any market for our notes will develop or be sustained. Any such disruptions may have an adverse effect on the holders of the notes. 43 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 