Item 1A. Risk Factors Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have made forward-looking statements in an attempt to better enable the reader to understand our future prospects and make informed judgments. By their nature, forward-looking statements are subject to numerous factors that may influence outcomes or even prevent their eventual realization. Such factors may be external to the Company and entirely outside our control. We cannot guarantee that our assumptions and expectations will be correct. Failure of events to be achieved or of certain underlying assumptions to prove accurate could cause actual results to vary materially from past results and those anticipated or projected. We do not intend to update forward-looking statements. Certain risks and uncertainties are discussed below. However, it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Accordingly, you should not consider this recitation to be complete. Risks Relating to the Company and its Operations 14 Our Board of Directors may decide in the future to pursue a dissolution and liquidation of the Company. As previously announced in April 2013, our sale review process did not result in the sale of the Company. Our Board of Directors could decide in the future that a dissolution and liquidation of the Company would be in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders. If our Board of Directors were to approve and recommend, and our stockholders were to approve, a dissolution and liquidation of the Company, we would be required under Delaware corporate law to pay our outstanding obligations, as well as to make reasonable provision for contingent and unknown obligations, prior to making any distributions in liquidation to our stockholders. Our commitments and contingent liabilities may include (i) various claims and legal actions arising in the ordinary course of business and (ii) non-cancelable lease obligations. As a result of this requirement, a portion of our assets may need to be reserved pending the resolution of such obligations. In addition, we may be subject to litigation or other claims related to a dissolution and liquidation of the Company. If a dissolution and liquidation were pursued, our Board of Directors, in consultation with its advisors, would need to evaluate these matters and make a determination about a reasonable amount to reserve. Accordingly, if a dissolution and liquidation were pursued, we cannot be certain of the amount and/or timing of any distributions to our stockholders. In addition, if a dissolution and liquidation were pursued, our common stock would cease to trade on the effective date of the filing of the certificate of dissolution and we would close our stock transfer books and discontinue recording transfers of our common stock at that time. Accordingly, if a dissolution and liquidation were pursued, the price and liquidity of our common stock may be adversely affected. We derive most of our royalty revenues from continued sales of PegIntron, which have been in decline since 2008, and if sales of PegIntron continue to decline or sales of other drug products for which we receive royalty revenues materially decline, our results of operations and financial position could be materially harmed. We derive most of our royalty revenues from continued sales of PegIntron, which is marketed by Merck. Royalty revenues from sales of PegIntron accounted for approximately 87%, 93% and 94% of our total royalty revenues in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Sales of PegIntron have been in decline since 2008. As a consequence, a continued decline in the sales of PegIntron could adversely affect our operating results and financial position. Merck reported that worldwide sales of PegIntron declined 24% to $496 million in 2013 compared with 2012 reflecting declines in all regions and that it believes the sales declines are attributable in part to patient treatment being delayed by health care providers in anticipation of new therapeutic options becoming available. We cannot assure you that Merck will continue to generate sales of PegIntron at levels that would enable us to receive royalties in amounts that are comparable with the amounts of royalties that we have received in recent years. The amount and timing of resources dedicated by Merck to the marketing of PegIntron is not within our control. Our royalty revenues will be negatively affected if sales of PegIntron are limited for any reason, including if Merck cannot market PegIntron effectively as a result of competitive, manufacturing, regulatory or other issues. 15 Products that compete with PegIntron have been and potentially will be introduced by other drug manufacturers. Hoffmann-La Roche’s PEGASYS, a competing PEGylated interferon alfa, has resulted in significant competitive pressure on PegIntron sales in the U.S. and all international markets. PEGASYS has taken market share away from PegIntron and the overall market for PEGylated alpha-interferon for the treatment of hepatitis C has been contracting. As a result, sales of PegIntron in certain markets where it competes with PEGASYS and the royalties we receive on those sales have declined. We cannot assure you that PEGASYS will not continue to gain market share at the expense of PegIntron which could result in lower PegIntron sales and lower royalties to us. On December 6, 2013, the FDA approved Gilead’s Sovaldi (sofosbuvir) 400 mg tablets, a once-daily oral nucleotide analog polymerase inhibitor for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C infection as a component of a combination antiviral treatment regimen. Sovaldi was approved in combination with peg-interferon alpha and ribavirin for genotype 1 and 4 patients, and in combination with ribavirin for genotype 2 and 3 patients. On January 17, 2014, the European Commission granted marketing authorization for Sovaldi. We expect that the adoption of Sovaldi will have a negative impact on PegIntron revenues. There are several novel agents in various stages of preclinical and clinical development for the treatment of hepatitis C, which either include or eliminate combination with pegylated interferon-based therapies. It is possible that this research could lead to a competing product or ultimately to interferon-free combination therapy in the future. We may not be able to sustain profitability and we may incur losses over the next several years. We have incurred losses in the past and have limited sources of revenues. Our revenues and operating results will likely fluctuate in future periods due to variations in our royalty revenues. We expect to continue to incur operating expenses and anticipate that we could have significant expenses in the foreseeable future. In addition, if our Board of Directors decides in the future to pursue a dissolution and liquidation of the Company, the implementation of any transaction that might result from any such dissolution or liquidation process, which could further reduce our existing capital, including legal and financial advisor fees or related actions could involve incurring material expenses. Our rights to receive royalties on sales of PegIntron and sales of other drug products will eventually expire and we currently do not intend on acquiring new sources of royalty revenues. Merck’s obligation to pay us royalties on sales of PegIntron terminates, on a country-by-country basis, upon the later of the date on which the last patent to contain a claim covering PegIntron expires in the country or 15 years after the date on which PegIntron was first approved for commercial marketing in such country. Currently, expirations of our right to receive royalties on sales of PegIntron are expected to occur in 2016 in the U.S., 2018 in Europe and 2019 in Japan. Our rights to receive royalties under our agreement with Nektar relating to CIMZIA and Macugen expire in 2014 in the U.S. and as late as 2018 in countries outside the U.S. We currently do not intend on acquiring new sources of royalty revenues. As a result, following expirations of our rights to receive royalties on sales of PegIntron and sales of other drug products, we may not have sufficient revenues to continue operations. If we do not realize the expected benefits from the reduction in our workforce that was completed in 2013 and from future cost savings initiatives that we may implement, the value of the Company and our assets and the market price of our common stock could materially decline. In December 2012, we announced a plan to reduce our workforce by approximately 15-20 employees, and in March 2013, we announced a plan to further reduce our workforce from 19 employees to 12 employees. As of the date of this report, we have one employee. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to realize additional cost savings and other anticipated benefits from our recent reductions in force. As a result of the reduction in our workforce that was completed in 2013, we have reallocated certain employment responsibilities and outsourced certain corporate functions, which make us more dependent on third-parties to perform these corporate functions. As a result of the reduction in our workforce that was completed in 2013, we have outsourced certain corporate functions, which make us more dependent on third-parties for the performance of these functions. In addition, this reduction in our workforce has had a negative impact on our ability to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and effective disclosure controls and procedures. To the extent that we are unable to effectively reallocate employee responsibilities, retain key employees as consultants, maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and effective disclosure controls and procedures, establish and maintain agreements with competent third-party contractors on terms that are acceptable to us, or effectively manage the work performed by any retained third-party contractors, our ability to manage the operations of our business effectively could be compromised. 16 We may be subject to a variety of types of product liability or other claims based on allegations that the use of our product candidates by participants in our clinical trials has resulted in adverse effects, and our insurance may not cover all product liability or other claims. We may face liability claims related to the use or misuse of our product candidates in previously conducted clinical trials. These claims may be expensive to defend and may result in large judgments against us. Any such claims against us, regardless of their merit, might result in significant costs to defend or awards against us, and our insurance coverage and resources may not be sufficient to satisfy any liability resulting from such claims. A successful product liability or other claim brought against us could cause the market price of our common stock to decline and, if judgments exceed our insurance coverage, could decrease our cash and materially harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. We depend on patents and proprietary rights, which may offer only limited protection against potential infringement and the development of competing products. The pharmaceutical industry places considerable importance on obtaining patent and trade secret protection for new technologies, products and processes. If we are unable to obtain and enforce patent protection for our product candidates or to maintain the confidentiality of our trade secrets, the value of our intellectual property portfolio could be harmed. We have an extensive portfolio of issued U.S. patents and filed applications, many of which have foreign counterparts. Although we believe that our patents provide certain protection from competition, such patents may not provide substantial protection or commercial benefit to us, or afford us adequate protection from competing products, and may be challenged or declared invalid. In addition, U.S. patents or foreign patent equivalents may not be issued to us in the future. Issued patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. In addition, court decisions may introduce uncertainty as to the enforceability or scope of patents owned by biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, including us. The legal systems of certain countries do not favor the aggressive enforcement of patents, and the laws of foreign countries may not protect our rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. Therefore, enforceability or scope of our patents in the U.S. or in foreign countries cannot be predicted with certainty, and, as a result, any patents that we own or license may not provide sufficient protection against competitors. In addition, we may not be able to obtain or maintain a patent from our pending patent applications, those we may file in the future, or those we may license from third parties. We believe that our patent rights are enforceable. However, those rights may prove unenforceable or invalid, or will expire. If we are not able to protect our patent positions, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, which could adversely affect the market value of our common stock. We may become aware that certain organizations are engaging in activities that infringe certain of our patents. We may be unable to enforce our patents and other rights against such organizations. Legal or administrative proceedings may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend against claims of infringement. We have in the past been involved in patent litigation and other proceedings and we may likely become involved in additional patent litigation or proceedings in the future. If we become involved in any such litigation or proceeding, irrespective of the outcome, we may incur substantial costs, the efforts of our technical and management personnel may be diverted, and such disputes could substantially delay or prevent our product development or commercialization activities, which could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 17 We are party to license and other collaboration agreements that contain complex commercial terms that could result in disputes, litigation or indemnification liability that could cause the value of the Company and our assets and the market price of our common stock to decline. We are party to license, collaboration and other agreements with biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. These agreements contain complex commercial terms, including royalties on drug sales based on a number of complex variables (including net sales calculations, geography, scope of patent claim coverage, patent life and other factors) and indemnification obligations. From time to time, we may have dispute resolution discussions with third parties regarding the appropriate interpretation of the complex commercial terms contained in our agreements. One or more disputes may arise or escalate in the future regarding our agreements that may ultimately result in costly litigation and unfavorable interpretation of contract terms, which could cause the value of the Company and our assets and the market price of our common stock to decline. We are party to license agreements whereby we may receive royalties from products subject to regulatory approval. Our licensees may be unable to maintain regulatory approvals for currently licensed products or obtain regulatory approvals for new products. Safety issues could also result in the failure to maintain regulatory approvals or decrease revenues. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock The price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile. Historically, the market price of our common stock has fluctuated over a wide range, and it is likely that the price of our common stock will continue to be volatile in the future. The market price of our common stock could be impacted due to a variety of factors, including, in addition to global and industry-wide events: · the level of revenues we generate from royalties we receive; · changes in our business strategy; · the losses we may incur; · developments in patent or other proprietary rights owned or licensed by us, our collaborative partners or our competitors; · public concern as to the safety and efficacy of products developed by us or others; and · litigation. In addition, due to one or more of the foregoing factors in one or more future quarters, our results of operations may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In that event, the market price of our common stock could materially decline. The declaration of dividends is within the discretion of our Board of Directors, subject to any applicable limitations under Delaware corporate law. Our ability to pay dividends in the future depends on, among other things, our future royalty revenues, which are expected to decrease over time, as well as our ability to manage expenses, including costs relating to our ongoing operations. In April 2013, we announced that our Board of Directors intends to distribute excess cash, expected to arise from ongoing royalty revenues, in the form of periodic dividends to our stockholders. In June and December 2013, respectively, the Company paid special dividends of $1.60 and $0.45 per share. The declaration of dividends is within the discretion of our Board of Directors, subject to any applicable limitations under Delaware corporate law, and therefore our Board of Directors could decide in the future not to declare dividends. In addition, our ability to pay dividends in the future depends on, among other things, our future revenues from existing royalties and our ability to manage expenses, including costs relating to our ongoing operations. Our future revenues from existing royalties are expected to decrease over time (and eventually cease altogether) due to eventual expirations over time of our right to receive royalties under the terms of our existing licensing arrangements. Future revenues from existing royalties may also decline due to decreases in the sales of the drug products for which we have the right to receive royalties. There is no assurance that we will have sufficient royalty revenues to be able to pay dividends in the future. Any inability to pay dividends could cause the market price of our common stock to decline significantly Events with respect to our capital stock could cause the number of shares of our common stock outstanding to increase and thereby cause our stockholders to suffer significant dilution. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the open market, or the availability of such shares for sale, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2013, we had 44,085,870 shares of common stock outstanding. As of that date, the following securities that may be exercised for, or are convertible into, shares of our common stock were outstanding: 18 · Options. Stock options to purchase 2.1 million shares of our common stock at a weighted average exercise price of approximately $6.90 per share. · Restricted stock units. Approximately 0.2 million shares of our common stock are issuable in respect of outstanding restricted stock units held by officers, employees and directors. The shares of our common stock issuable upon the exercise of options and the settlement of restricted stock are currently registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and, therefore, once those shares of common stock are issued, they may be eligible for public resale. As a result, if a large number of shares of our common stock are sold into the public market, or if there is an expectation of such sales, these sales or expectations of these sales could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware corporate law may make it more difficult to acquire us, even though such acquisitions may be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware corporate law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even though such acquisitions may be beneficial to our stockholders. These anti-takeover provisions include: · lack of a provision for cumulative voting in the election of directors; · the ability of our board to authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; · advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and · limitations on who may call a special meeting of stockholders. The provisions described above and provisions of Delaware corporate law relating to business combinations with interested stockholders may discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us. These provisions may also discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring a large portion of our securities, or initiating a tender offer, even if our stockholders might receive a premium for their shares in the acquisition over the then current market price. We also have agreements with our executive officers that provide for change of control severance benefits which provides for cash severance, restricted stock, restricted stock units and option award vesting acceleration and other benefits in the event our employees are terminated (or, in some cases, resign for specified reasons) following an acquisition or other change in control. These agreements could discourage a third party from acquiring us. The issuance of preferred stock may adversely affect rights of our common stockholders. Under our certificate of incorporation, our board of directors has the authority to issue up to three million shares of “blank check” preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences and privileges of those shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to the rights of the holders of any shares of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. In addition to discouraging a takeover, as discussed above, this “blank check” preferred stock may have rights, including economic rights senior to the common stock, and, as a result, the issuance of such preferred stock could have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock. 19 A small number of stockholders own a large percentage of our common stock and can influence the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval. A small number of our stockholders own a large percentage of our common stock and can therefore influence the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval. Based on information known to us as of the date of this report, our four largest stockholders collectively control approximately 37.8% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders collectively have the ability to influence the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval. These stockholders may support proposals and actions with which you may disagree. The concentration of ownership could also delay or prevent a change in control of the Company or otherwise discourage a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of the Company, which in turn could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. If we are unable to satisfy the continued listing requirements of The NASDAQ Stock Market, our common stock could be delisted and the price and liquidity of our common stock may be adversely affected. Our common stock may lose value and our common stock could be delisted from NASDAQ due to several factors or a combination of such factors. While our common stock is currently listed on The NASDAQ Stock Market, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain such listing. To maintain the listing of our common stock on The NASDAQ Stock Market, we are required to meet certain listing requirements, including, among others, a requirement to maintain a minimum closing bid price of $1.00 per share. If our common stock trades below the $1.00 minimum closing bid price requirement for 30 consecutive business days or if we do not meet other listing requirements, we may be notified by NASDAQ of non-compliance. Our common stock recently closed below $1.00 per share on January 27, 2014 and has been closing at or below $1.00 per share since that date. In addition, the payment of future dividends, if any, to our stockholders, together with eventual expirations over time of our right to receive royalties under the terms of our existing licensing arrangements, would be expected to result in a reduction over time in the per-share trading price of our common stock. If the price per share of our common stock were to fall below NASDAQ listing standards, our common stock may be delisted. If we are notified by NASDAQ of non-compliance with the $1.00 minimum closing bid price requirement, we would regain compliance if our common stock trades above $1.00 per share for ten consecutive business days during the 180 days following notice of non-compliance. To increase the per share trading price of our common stock, we may decide to seek to implement a reverse stock split. However, there can be no assurance that we would pursue a reverse stock split or be able to obtain the approvals necessary to effect a reverse stock split. In addition, there can be no assurance that, following any reverse stock split, the per share trading price of our common stock would remain above $1.00 per share or that we would be able to continue to meet other listing requirements. If our common stock is delisted, market liquidity for our common stock could be severely affected and our stockholders’ ability to sell their shares of our common stock could be limited. In addition, our common stock could be subject to “penny stock” rules which impose additional disclosure requirements on broker-dealers and could further negatively impact our market liquidity for our common stock and our stockholders’ ability to sell their shares of our common stock. Accordingly, a delisting of our common stock from NASDAQ would negatively affect the value of our common stock. Delisting could also have other negative results, including, but not limited to, the loss of institutional investor interest. 20 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 