ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. We describe below a number of uncertainties and risks which, in addition to uncertainties and risks presented elsewhere in this annual report, may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The uncertainties and risks enumerated below as well as those presented elsewhere in this annual report should be considered carefully in evaluating our company and our business and the value of our securities. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We have a limited operating history with significant losses and expect losses to continue for the foreseeable future. We have yet to establish any history of profitable operations. We have incurred annual operating losses of approximately $4,098,000 and $4,437,000, respectively, during the past two years of operations. As a result, at December 31, 2010 we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $24,770,000. We have incurred net losses from continuing operations of approximately $4,098,000 and $4,432,000 for the fiscal years ending 2010 and 2009, respectively. Our revenues have not been sufficient to sustain our operations and we expect that they will be insufficient to sustain our operations for the foreseeable future. Our failure to generate meaningful revenues and ultimately profits from the WavSTAT System and applications of our technology could force us to raise additional capital which may not be available or available on acceptable terms. This could ultimately reduce or suspend our operations and ultimately cause us to go out of business. Our profitability will require the successful commercialization of our imaging systems and no assurances can be given when this will occur or if we will ever be profitable. We will require additional financing to sustain our operations and without it, we may not be able to continue operations. At December 31, 2010, we had a working capital balance of approximately $4,001,000. We had an operating cash flow deficit of approximately $2,328,000 for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010 and an operating cash flow deficit of approximately $2,463,000 in 2009. We may not have sufficient financial resources to fund our operations and will likely require additional funds to continue our operations. We may face intense competition from companies that have greater financial, personnel and research and development resources. Competitive forces may impact our projected growth and ability to generate revenues and profits, which would have a negative impact on our business and the price of our common stock. Our competitors may be developing products that compete with the WavSTAT Systems. Our commercial opportunities would then be reduced or eliminated should our competitors develop and market products for any of the diseases that we target that are more effective or are less expensive than the products or product candidates we are developing. Even if we are successful in developing effective WavSTAT System, and we obtain FDA and other regulatory approvals necessary for commercialization, our products may not compete effectively with other successful products. Researchers are continually learning more about diseases, which may lead to new technologies and tools for analysis. Our competitors include fully integrated medical device companies, universities and public and private research institutions. Many of the organizations competing with us may have substantially greater capital resources, larger research and development staffs and facilities, greater experience in product development and in obtaining regulatory approvals, and greater marketing capabilities than we do. The market for medical devices is intensely competitive. Many of our potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, more employees, and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, public relations, and distribution resources than we have. This intense competitive environment may require us to make changes in our products, pricing, licensing, services or marketing to develop, maintain and extend our current technology. Price concessions or the emergence of other pricing or distribution strategies of competitors may diminish our revenues, adversely impact our margins or lead to a reduction in our market share, any of which may harm our business. Our WavSTAT System technology may become obsolete. Our WavSTAT System products may be made unmarketable by new scientific or technological developments where new treatment modalities are introduced that are more efficacious or more economical. Any one of our competitors could develop a more effective product which would render our technology obsolete. Our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could impede our ability to generate revenues and profits and to otherwise implement our business plan and growth strategies, which would have a negative impact on our business and could adversely affect the price of our common stock. We currently have a staff of six full time employees, consisting of, among others, our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Director of Sales and Marketing and Chief Engineer Director, as well as administrative employees and other personnel retained on a contract basis. Although we believe that these employees, together with the consultants currently engaged by the Company, will be able to handle most of our additional administrative, research and development and business development in the near term, we will nevertheless be required over the longer-term to hire highly skilled managerial, scientific and administrative personnel to fully implement our business plan and growth strategies. We cannot assure you that we will be able to engage the services of such qualified personnel at competitive prices or at all, particularly given the risks of employment attributable to our limited financial resources and lack of an established track record. 10 We plan to grow very rapidly, which will place strains on our management team and other company resources to both implement more sophisticated managerial, operational and financial systems, procedures and controls and to train and manage the personnel necessary to implement those functions. Our inability to manage our growth could impede our ability to generate revenues and profits and to otherwise implement our business plan and growth strategies, which would have a negative impact on our business. We will need to significantly expand our operations to implement our longer-term business plan and growth strategies. We will also be required to manage multiple relationships with various strategic partners, technology licensors, customers, manufacturers and suppliers, consultants and other third parties. This expansion and these expanded relationships will require us to significantly improve or replace our existing managerial, operational and financial systems, procedures and controls; to improve the coordination between our various corporate functions; and to manage, train, motivate and maintain a growing employee base. The time and costs to effectuate these steps may place a significant strain on our management personnel, systems and resources, particularly given the limited amount of financial resources and skilled employees that may be available at the time. We cannot assure you that we will institute, in a timely manner or at all, the improvements to our managerial, operational and financial systems, procedures and controls necessary to support our anticipated increased levels of operations and to coordinate our various corporate functions, or that we will be able to properly manage, train, motivate and retain the anticipated increased number of employees. We may have difficulty in developing and retaining an effective sales force or in obtaining effective distribution partners and may not be able to achieve sufficient revenues to effect our business plan. The market for skilled sales and marketing personnel is highly competitive and specialized. If we are unable to hire and retain skilled and knowledgeable sales people it may negatively impact our ability to introduce our products or generate revenue sufficient to affect our future business plans. In addition, our inability to develop business relationships with key technical distributors may also negatively impact our ability to successfully market our products. We may have difficulty in attracting and retaining management and outside independent members to our Board of Directors as a result of their concerns relating to their increased personal exposure to lawsuits and shareholder claims by virtue of holding these positions in a publicly held company. The directors and management of publicly traded corporations are increasingly concerned with the extent of their personal exposure to lawsuits and shareholder claims, as well as governmental and creditor claims which may be made against them, particularly in view of recent changes in securities laws imposing additional duties, obligations and liabilities on management and directors. Due to these perceived risks, directors and management are also becoming increasingly concerned with the availability of directors and officers liability insurance to pay on a timely basis the costs incurred in defending such claims. We currently carry directors and officers liability insurance, but such insurance is expensive and can be difficult to obtain. If we are unable to obtain directors and officers liability insurance at affordable rates or at all in the future, it may become increasingly more difficult to attract and retain qualified outside directors to serve on our board of directors. The fees of directors are also rising in response to their increased duties, obligations and liabilities as well as increased exposure to such risks. As a company with a limited operating history and limited resources, we will have a more difficult time attracting and retaining management and outside independent directors than a more established company due to these enhanced duties, obligations and liabilities. If we fail to comply with extensive regulations enforced by domestic and foreign regulatory authorities, the commercialization of our products could be prevented or delayed. Our WavSTAT Systems are subject to extensive government regulations related to development, testing, manufacturing and commercialization in the United States and other countries. The determination of when and whether a product is ready for large scale purchase and potential use will be made by the government through consultation with a number of governmental agencies, including the FDA, the National Institutes of Health, and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Some of our product candidates are in the clinical stages of development and have not received required regulatory approval from the FDA for the esophageal or lung applications we hope to commercially market. The process of obtaining and complying with the FDA and other governmental regulatory approvals and regulations is costly, time consuming, uncertain and subject to unanticipated delays. Despite the time and expense incurred, regulatory approval is never guaranteed. We also are subject to the following risks and obligations, among others: · The FDA may refuse to approve an application if they believe that applicable regulatory criteria are not satisfied; · The FDA may require additional testing for safety and effectiveness; · The FDA may interpret data from pre-clinical testing and clinical trials in different ways than us; 11 · If regulatory approval of a product is granted, the approval may be limited to specific indications or limited with respect to its distribution; and · The FDA may change their approval policies and/or adopt new regulations. Failure to comply with these or other regulatory requirements of the FDA may subject us to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including: · Warning letters; · Civil penalties; · Criminal penalties; · Injunctions; · Product seizure or detention; · Product recalls; and · Total or partial suspension of production. Delays in successfully completing our clinical trials could jeopardize our ability to obtain regulatory approval or market our WavSTAT System candidates on a timely basis. Our business prospects will depend on our ability to complete clinical trials, obtain satisfactory results, obtain required regulatory approvals and successfully commercialize our WavSTAT System product candidates. Completion of our clinical trials, announcement of results of the trials and our ability to obtain regulatory approvals could be delayed for a variety of reasons, including: · Unsatisfactory results of any clinical trial; · The failure of principal third-party investigators to perform clinical trials on our anticipated schedules; and · Different interpretations of pre-clinical and clinical data, which could initially lead to inconclusive results. Our development costs will increase if we have material delays in any clinical trial or if we need to perform more or larger clinical trials than planned. If clinical trial delays are significant, or if any of our WavSTAT System product candidates do not prove to be safe or effective or do not receive required regulatory approvals, our financial results and the commercial prospects for our product candidates will be harmed. Furthermore, our inability to complete our clinical trials in a timely manner could jeopardize our ability to obtain regulatory approval. The independent clinical investigators that we rely upon to conduct our clinical trials may not be diligent, careful or timely, and may make mistakes, in the conduct of our clinical trials. We depend on independent clinical investigators to conduct our clinical trials. The investigators are not our employees, and we cannot control the amount or timing of resources that they devote to our product development programs. If independent investigators fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our product development programs, or if their performance is substandard, it may delay FDA approval of our products. These independent investigators may also have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which may compete with us. If these independent investigators assist our competitors at our expense, it could harm our competitive position. Our product development efforts may not yield marketable products due to results of studies or trials, failure to achieve regulatory approvals or market acceptance, proprietary rights of others or manufacturing issues. Our success depends on our ability to successfully develop and obtain regulatory approval to market new products. We expect that a significant portion of the research that we will conduct will involve new and unproven technologies. Development of a product requires substantial technical, financial and human resources even if the product is not successfully completed. 12 Potential products may appear to be promising at various stages of development yet fail to reach the market for a number of reasons, including the: · Lack of adequate quality or sufficient prevention benefit, or unacceptable safety during pre-clinical studies or clinical trials; · Failure to receive necessary regulatory approvals; · Existence of proprietary rights of third parties; and/or · Inability to develop manufacturing methods that are efficient, cost-effective and capable of meeting stringent regulatory standards. Our inability to protect our intellectual property rights could negatively impact our projected growth and ability to generate revenues and profits, which would have a negative impact on our business. We rely on a combination of patent, patent pending, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, proprietary rights agreements and non-disclosure agreements to protect our intellectual properties. These measures may not prove to be effective in protecting our intellectual properties. In the case of patents, our existing patents may be invalidated, any patents that we currently or prospectively apply may not be granted, or any of these patents may not ultimately provide significant commercial benefits. Further, competing companies may circumvent any patents that we may hold by developing products which closely emulate but do not infringe our patents. While we currently have and intend to seek patent protection for our products in selected foreign countries, those patents may not receive the same degree of protection as they would in the United States. We may not be able to successfully defend our patents and proprietary rights in any action we may file for patent infringement. Similarly, we may be required to defend litigation involving the patents or proprietary rights of others, or we may be able to obtain licenses for these rights. Legal and accounting costs relating to prosecuting or defending patent infringement litigation may be substantial. The WavSTAT System is protected by eight issued patents, in the United States, Canada, Europe and Japan, which we own, and one additional patent for which we own the exclusive license. We also have 34 patents related to the LUMA technology, which provides for additional light-based cancer detection and diagnostic applications for use in future products. We also rely on proprietary designs, technologies, processes and know-how not eligible for patent protection. Our competitors may independently develop the same or superior designs, technologies, processes and know-how. While we have and will continue to enter into proprietary rights agreements with our employees and third parties giving us proprietary rights to certain technology developed by those employees or parties while engaged by the Company, courts of competent jurisdiction may not enforce those agreements. The patents we own comprise a large portion of our assets, which could limit our financial viability. The WavSTAT System is protected by eight issued patents, in the United States, Canada, Europe and Japan, and an additional patent for which we own an exclusive license. One of the eight patents has lapsed for failure to pay maintenance fees, and we are in the process of reinstating the patent. We may not be successful in reinstating the patent. In addition, our LUMA System is the subject of 34 issued patents. These patents comprise approximately 38% of our assets at December 31, 2010. If our existing patents are invalidated or if they fail to provide significant commercial benefits, it will severely hurt our financial condition, as a significant percentage of our assets would lose their value. Further, since our patents are amortized over the course of their term until they expire, our assets comprised of patents will systemically be written down to zero. Legislative actions and potential new accounting pronouncements are likely to impact our future financial position and results of operations. Compliance with publicly-traded company regulations adversely impacts our resources. As a publicly-traded company, we are subject to rules and regulations that increase our legal and financial compliance costs, make some activities more time-consuming and costly, and divert our management's attention away from the operation of our business. We are obligated to file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, annual and quarterly information and other reports that are specified in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act, and are also subject to other reporting and corporate governance requirements, including requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, which impose significant compliance and reporting obligations upon us. We may not be successful in complying with these obligations, and compliance with these obligations could be time consuming and expensive. Failure to comply with the additional reporting and corporate governance requirements could lead to fines imposed on us, deregistration under the Exchange Act and, in the most egregious cases, criminal sanctions could be imposed. 13 Our products may be subject to recall or product liability claims. Our WavSTAT System products may be used in connection with medical procedures in which it is important that those products function with precision and accuracy. If our products do not function as designed, or are designed improperly, we may be forced by regulatory agencies to withdraw such products from the market. In addition, if medical personnel or their patients suffer injury as a result of any failure of our products to function as designed, or an inappropriate design, we may be subject to lawsuits seeking significant compensatory and punitive damages. Any product recall or lawsuit seeking significant monetary damages may have a material effect on our business and financial condition. We have not paid any cash dividends and no cash dividends will be paid in the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our Common Stock in the foreseeable future, and we cannot assure an investor that funds will be legally available to pay dividends or that even if the funds are legally available, that the dividends will be paid. RISKS RELATED TO OUR CAPITAL STOCK The application of the “penny stock” rules could adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock and increase your transaction costs to sell your stock. As long as the trading price of our Common Stock is below $5 per share, the open-market trading of our Common Stock will be subject to the “penny stock” rules. The “penny stock” rules impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors (generally those with assets in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000 or $300,000 together with their spouse). For transactions covered by these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchase of securities and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction before the purchase. Additionally, for any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the broker-dealer must deliver, before the transaction, a disclosure schedule prescribed by the SEC relating to the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must disclose the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities. Finally, monthly statements must be sent disclosing recent price information on the limited market in penny stocks. These additional burdens imposed on broker-dealers may restrict the ability or decrease the willingness of broker-dealers to sell our Common Stock, and may result in decreased liquidity for our Common Stock and increased transaction costs for sales and purchases of our Common Stock as compared to other securities. Our common stock is thinly traded, so investors may be unable to sell at or near ask prices or at all. Our Common Stock has historically been sporadically or “thinly-traded”, meaning that the number of persons interested in purchasing our Common Stock at or near ask prices at any given time may be relatively small or non-existent. As of March 25, 2011, our average trading volume per day for the past three months was approximately 83,000 shares a day with a high of 647,500 shares traded and a low of 0 shares traded per day. This situation is attributable to a number of factors, including the fact that we are a small company which is relatively unknown to stock analysts, stock brokers, institutional investors and others in the investment community that generate or influence sales volume, and that even if we came to the attention of such persons, they tend to be risk-averse and would be reluctant to follow an unproven company such as ours or purchase or recommend the purchase of our shares until such time as we became more seasoned and viable. As a consequence, there may be periods of several days or more when trading activity in our shares is minimal or non-existent, as compared to a seasoned issuer which has a large and steady volume of trading activity that will generally support continuous sales without an adverse effect on share price. A broader or more active public trading market for our Common Stock may not develop or be sustained, and current trading levels may not be sustained. The market price for our Common Stock is particularly volatile, given our status as a relatively unknown company with a small and thinly-traded public float, limited operating history and lack of revenues which could lead to wide fluctuations in our share price. The market for our Common Stock is characterized by significant price volatility when compared to seasoned issuers, and we expect that our share price will continue to be more volatile than a seasoned issuer for the foreseeable future. In fact, during the 90-day period ended March 25, 2011, the high and low closing prices of a share of our Common Stock were $0.15 and $0.08, respectively. The volatility in our share price is attributable to a number of factors. First, as noted above, our stock is sporadically and/or thinly-traded. As a consequence of this lack of liquidity, the trading of relatively small quantities of shares by our shareholders may disproportionately influence the price of those shares in either direction. The price for our shares could, for example, decline precipitously in the event that a large number of our shares are sold on the market without commensurate demand, as compared to a seasoned issuer which could better absorb those sales without adverse impact on its share price. Secondly, we are a speculative or “risky” investment due to our limited operating history and lack of revenues or profits to date and uncertainty of future market acceptance for our potential products. As a consequence of this enhanced risk, more risk-adverse investors may, under the fear of losing all or most of their investment in the event of negative news or lack of progress, be more inclined to sell their shares on the market more quickly and at greater discounts than would be the case with the stock of a seasoned issuer. The following factors may add to the volatility in the price of our Common Stock: actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly or annual operating results; acceptance of our proprietary technology; government regulations, announcements of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or joint ventures; our capital commitments; and additions or departures of our key personnel. Many of these factors are beyond our control and may decrease the market price of our Common Stock, regardless of our operating performance. We cannot make any predictions or projections as to what the prevailing market price for our Common Stock will be at any time, including as to whether our Common Stock will sustain its current market prices, or as to what effect that the sale of shares or the availability of Common Stock for sale at any time will have on the prevailing market price. 14 The market for penny stocks such as ours has been subject to fraud and abuse and may cause our stock price to be more volatile. Shareholders should be aware that, according to SEC Release No. 34-29093, the market for penny stocks has suffered in recent years from patterns of fraud and abuse. Such patterns include (1) control of the market for the security by one or a few broker-dealers that are often related to the promoter or issuer; (2) manipulation of prices through prearranged matching of purchases and sales and false and misleading press releases; (3) boiler room practices involving high-pressure sales tactics and unrealistic price projections by inexperienced sales persons; (4) excessive and undisclosed bid-ask differential and markups by selling broker-dealers; and (5) the wholesale dumping of the same securities by promoters and broker-dealers after prices have been manipulated to a desired level, along with the resulting inevitable collapse of those prices and consequent investor losses. Our management is aware of the abuses that have occurred historically in the penny stock market. Although we do not expect to be in a position to dictate the behavior of the market or of broker-dealers who participate in the market, management will strive within the confines of practical limitations to prevent the described patterns from being established with respect to our securities. The occurrence of these patterns or practices could increase the volatility of our share price. In addition, potential dilutive effects of future sales of shares of Common Stock by shareholders and by the Company could have an adverse effect on the market price of our shares. Volatility in our Common Stock price may subject us to securities litigation. The market for our Common Stock is characterized by significant price volatility when compared to seasoned issuers, and we expect that our share price will continue to be more volatile than a seasoned issuer for the indefinite future. In the past, plaintiffs have sometimes initiated securities class action litigation against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We may in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and liabilities and could divert management's attention and resources. A large number of shares of Common Stock are issuable upon exercise of outstanding options and the exercise of these securities could result in the substantial dilution of the investment of other shareholders in terms of percentage ownership in the Company as well as the book value of the Common Stock. As of March 25, 2011, there are outstanding Common Stock purchase options entitling the holders to purchase 15,295,000 shares of Common Stock at a weighted average exercise price of $0.20 per share (3,366,667 of these shares are exercisable within 60 days of March 25, 2011). The exercise price for all of the options may be less than the cost to acquire our Common Stock. In addition, the holders of the common stock purchase options may sell Common Stock in tandem with their exercise of those options to finance that exercise, or may resell the shares purchased in order to cover any income tax liabilities that may arise from their exercise of the options, which could substantially depress the prevailing market price of our stock. Our issuance of additional common stock, or options to purchase our common stock, would dilute the proportionate ownership and voting rights of shareholders. We are entitled under our articles of incorporation to issue up to 225,000,000 shares of capital stock which includes 175,000,000 shares of Common Stock, 3,585,000 shares of Preferred Stock and 46,415,000 undesignated shares. Our undesignated shares may be designated as in a senior position to our Common Stock. After taking into consideration our outstanding Common Stock at March 25, 2011, we will be entitled to issue up to 20,059,399 additional shares of Common Stock (175,000,000 authorized less 108,041,095 common shares outstanding, 3,585,000 shares for issuance upon conversion of Preferred Stock, 17,695,000 shares reserved for issuance of stock options, 25,247,660 shares reserved for issuance of Common Stock purchase warrants and 371,846 shares of Common Stock issued for payment of cumulative preferred dividends) and up to 46,415,000 shares of undesignated capital stock. Our board of directors may generally issue stock, or options or warrants to purchase those shares, without further approval by our shareholders based upon such factors as our board of directors may deem relevant at that time. It is likely that we will be required to issue a large amount of additional securities to raise capital to further our development. It is also likely that we will be required to issue a large amount of additional securities to directors, officers, employees and consultants as compensatory grants in connection with their services, both in the form of stand-alone grants or under our stock plans. We may not be able to issue additional shares of Common Stock, or options or warrants to purchase those shares, under circumstances we may deem appropriate at the time. The limitation of monetary liability of our directors, officers and employees under our articles of incorporation and the indemnification rights of our directors, officers, consultants and employees may result in substantial expenditures by us and may discourage lawsuits against our directors, officers, consultants and employees. Our articles of incorporation contain provisions which eliminate the liability of our directors and officers for monetary damages to the Company and shareholders. Our bylaws also require us to indemnify our officers and directors. We may also have contractual indemnification obligations under our agreements with our directors, officers, consultants and employees. The foregoing indemnification obligations could result in the Company incurring substantial expenditures to cover the cost of settlement or damage awards against directors, officers, consultants and employees, which we may be unable to recoup. These provisions and resultant costs may also discourage us from bringing a lawsuit against directors, officers, consultants and employees for breaches of their fiduciary duties, and may similarly discourage the filing of derivative litigation by our shareholders against our directors, officers, consultants and employees even though such actions, if successful, might otherwise benefit the Company and shareholders. 15 Anti-takeover provisions may impede the acquisition of the Company. Certain provisions of the Minnesota Business Corporation Act and other Minnesota laws have anti-takeover effects and may inhibit a non-negotiated merger or other business combination. These provisions are intended to encourage any person interested in acquiring us to negotiate with, and to obtain the approval of, our board of directors in connection with such a transaction. However, certain of these provisions may discourage a future acquisition of the Company, including an acquisition in which the shareholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. As a result, shareholders who might desire to participate in such a transaction may not have the opportunity to do so. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None 