ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. We describe below a number of uncertainties and risks which, in addition to uncertainties and risks presented elsewhere in this annual report, may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The uncertainties and risks enumerated below as well as those presented elsewhere in this annual report should be considered carefully in evaluating our company and our business and the value of our securities. 12 RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We have a limited operating history with significant losses and expect losses to continue for the foreseeable future. We have yet to establish any history of profitable operations. We have incurred annual operating losses of approximately $4,321,000 and $4,768,000, respectively, during the past two years of operations. As a result, at December 31, 2012 we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $38,626,000. We have incurred net losses from continuing operations of approximately $9,093,000 and $4,762,000 for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Our revenues have not been sufficient to sustain our operations and we expect that they will be insufficient to sustain our operations for the foreseeable future. Our failure to generate meaningful revenues and ultimately profits from the WavSTAT System and applications of our technology could and will likely require that we raise additional capital which may not be available or available on acceptable terms. This could ultimately reduce or suspend our operations and ultimately cause us to go out of business. Our profitability will require the successful commercialization of our imaging systems and no assurances can be given when this will occur or if we will ever be profitable. We will require additional financing to sustain our operations and without it, we may not be able to continue operations. At December 31, 2012, we had a working capital deficit of approximately $3,341,000. We had an operating cash flow deficit of approximately $2,887,000 for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012 and an operating cash flow deficit of approximately $3,263,000 in fiscal 2011. We may not have sufficient financial resources to fund our operations and will likely require additional funds to continue our operations. We may face intense competition from companies that have greater financial, personnel and research and development resources. Competitive forces may impact our projected growth and ability to generate revenues and profits, which would have a negative impact on our business and the price of our common stock. Our competitors may be developing products that compete with the WavSTAT Systems. Our commercial opportunities would then be reduced or eliminated should our competitors develop and market products for any of the diseases that we target that are more effective or are less expensive than the products or product candidates we are developing. Even if we obtain FDA and other regulatory approvals necessary for commercialization, our products may not compete effectively with other successful products. Researchers are continually learning more about diseases, which may lead to new technologies and tools for analysis. Our competitors include fully integrated medical device companies, universities and public and private research institutions. Many of the organizations competing with us may have substantially greater capital resources, larger research and development staffs and facilities, greater experience in product development and in obtaining regulatory approvals, and greater marketing capabilities than we do. The market for medical devices is intensely competitive. Many of our potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, more employees, and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, public relations, and distribution resources than we have. This intense competitive environment may require us to make changes in our products, pricing, licensing, services or marketing to develop, maintain and extend our current technology. Price concessions or the emergence of other pricing or distribution strategies of competitors may diminish our revenues, adversely impact our margins or lead to a reduction in our market share, any of which may harm our business. Our WavSTAT System technology may become obsolete. Our WavSTAT System products may be made unmarketable by new scientific or technological developments where new treatment modalities are introduced that are more efficacious or more economical. Any one of our competitors could develop a more effective product which would render our technology obsolete. Our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could impede our ability to generate revenues and profits and to otherwise implement our business plan and growth strategies, which would have a negative impact on our business and could adversely affect the price of our common stock. We currently have a staff of eight full time employees, consisting of, among others, our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer, Director of Sales and Marketing and Director of Engineering as well as administrative employees and other personnel retained on a contract basis. We will be required over the longer-term to hire highly skilled managerial, scientific and administrative personnel to fully implement our business plan and growth strategies. We cannot assure you that we will be able to engage the services of such qualified personnel at competitive prices or at all, particularly given the risks of employment attributable to our limited financial resources and lack of an established track record. 13 Our planned growth will place strains on our management team and other company resources to both implement more sophisticated managerial, operational and financial systems, procedures and controls and to train and manage the personnel necessary to perform those functions. Our inability to manage our growth could impede our ability to generate revenues and profits and to otherwise implement our business plan and growth strategies, which would have a negative impact on our business and the market value of the Company. We will need to significantly expand our operations to implement our longer-term business plan and growth strategies. We will also be required to manage multiple relationships with various strategic partners, technology licensors, customers, manufacturers and suppliers, consultants and other third parties. This expansion and these expanded relationships will require us to significantly improve or replace our existing managerial, operational and financial systems, procedures and controls; to improve the coordination between our various corporate functions; and to manage, train, motivate and maintain a growing employee base. The time and costs to effectuate these steps may place a significant strain on our management personnel, systems and resources, particularly given the limited amount of financial resources and skilled employees that may be available at the time. We cannot assure you that we will institute, in a timely manner or at all, the improvements to our managerial, operational and financial systems, procedures and controls necessary to support our anticipated increased levels of operations and to coordinate our various corporate functions, or that we will be able to properly manage, train, motivate and retain the anticipated increased number of employees. We may have difficulty in developing and retaining an effective sales force or in obtaining effective distribution partners and may not be able to achieve sufficient revenues to effect our business plan. The market for skilled sales and marketing personnel is highly competitive and specialized. If we are unable to hire and retain skilled and knowledgeable sales people it may negatively impact our ability to introduce our products or generate revenue sufficient to affect our future business plans. In addition, our inability to develop business relationships with key technical distributors may also negatively impact our ability to successfully market our products. We may have difficulty in attracting and retaining management and outside independent members to our Board of Directors as a result of their concerns relating to their increased personal exposure to lawsuits and shareholder claims by virtue of holding these positions in a publicly held company. The directors and management of publicly traded corporations are increasingly concerned with the extent of their personal exposure to lawsuits and shareholder claims, as well as governmental and creditor claims which may be made against them, particularly in view of recent changes in securities laws imposing additional duties, obligations and liabilities on management and directors. Due to these perceived risks, directors and management are also becoming increasingly concerned with the availability of directors and officers liability insurance to pay on a timely basis the costs incurred in defending such claims. We currently carry directors and officers liability insurance, but such insurance is expensive and can be difficult to obtain. If we are unable to obtain directors and officers liability insurance at affordable rates or at all in the future, it may become increasingly more difficult to attract and retain qualified outside directors to serve on our board of directors. The fees of directors are also rising in response to their increased duties, obligations and liabilities as well as increased exposure to such risks. As a company with a limited operating history and limited resources, we will have a more difficult time attracting and retaining management and outside independent directors than a more established company due to these enhanced duties, obligations and liabilities. If we fail to comply with extensive regulations enforced by domestic and foreign regulatory authorities, the commercialization of our products could be prevented or delayed. Our WavSTAT Systems are subject to extensive government regulations related to development, testing, manufacturing and commercialization in the United States and other countries. The determination of when and whether a product is ready for large scale purchase and potential use will be made by the government through consultation with a number of governmental agencies, including the FDA, the National Institutes of Health, and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Some of our product candidates are in the clinical stages of development and have not received required regulatory approval from the FDA for applications we hope to commercially market. The process of obtaining and complying with the FDA and other governmental regulatory approvals and regulations is costly, time consuming, uncertain and subject to unanticipated delays. Despite the time and expense incurred, regulatory approval is never guaranteed. We also are subject to the following risks and obligations, among others: · The FDA may refuse to approve an application if they believe that applicable regulatory criteria are not satisfied; · The FDA may require additional testing for safety and effectiveness; · The FDA may interpret data from pre-clinical testing and clinical trials in different ways than us; · If regulatory approval of a product is granted, the approval may be limited to specific indications or limited with respect to its distribution; and · The FDA may change their approval policies and/or adopt new regulations. 14 Failure to comply with these or other regulatory requirements of the FDA may subject us to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including: · Warning letters; · Civil penalties; · Criminal penalties; · Injunctions; · Product seizure or detention; · Product recalls; and · Total or partial suspension of production. Delays in successfully completing our clinical and European evaluation trials could jeopardize our ability to obtain regulatory approval or market our WavSTAT System candidates on a timely basis. Our business prospects will depend on our ability to complete clinical trials, obtain satisfactory results, obtain required regulatory approvals and successfully commercialize our WavSTAT System product candidates. Completion of our clinical trials, announcement of results of the trials and our ability to obtain regulatory approvals could be delayed for a variety of reasons, including: · Unsatisfactory results of any clinical trial; · The failure of principal third-party investigators to perform clinical trials on our anticipated schedules; and · Different interpretations of pre-clinical and clinical data, which could initially lead to inconclusive results. Our development costs will increase if we have material delays in any clinical trial or if we need to perform more or larger clinical trials than planned. If clinical or evaluation trial delays are significant, or if any of our WavSTAT System product candidates do not prove to be safe or effective or do not receive required regulatory approvals, our financial results and the commercial prospects for our product candidates will be harmed. Furthermore, our inability to complete our clinical trials in a timely manner could jeopardize our ability to obtain regulatory approval. The independent clinical investigators that we rely upon to conduct our clinical trials may not be diligent, careful or timely, and may make mistakes, in the conduct of our clinical trials. We depend on independent clinical investigators to conduct our clinical trials. The investigators are not our employees, and we cannot control the amount or timing of resources that they devote to our product development programs. If independent investigators fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our product development programs, or if their performance is substandard, it may delay FDA approval of our products. These independent investigators may also have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which may compete with us. If these independent investigators assist our competitors at our expense, it could harm our competitive position. Our product development efforts may not yield marketable products due to results of studies or trials, failure to achieve regulatory approvals or market acceptance, proprietary rights of others or manufacturing issues. Our success depends on our ability to successfully develop and obtain regulatory approval to market new products. We expect that a significant portion of the research that we will conduct will involve new and unproven technologies. Development of a product requires substantial technical, financial and human resources even if the product is not successfully completed. Potential products may appear to be promising at various stages of development yet fail to reach the market for a number of reasons, including the: · Lack of adequate quality or sufficient prevention benefit, or unacceptable safety during pre-clinical studies or clinical trials; · Failure to receive necessary regulatory approvals; · Existence of proprietary rights of third parties; and/or · Inability to develop manufacturing methods that are efficient, cost-effective and capable of meeting stringent regulatory standards. 15 Our inability to protect our intellectual property rights could negatively impact our projected growth and ability to generate revenues and profits, which would have a negative impact on our business and the value of your investment. We rely on a combination of patent, patent pending, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, proprietary rights agreements and non-disclosure agreements to protect our intellectual properties. These measures may not prove to be effective in protecting our intellectual properties. In the case of patents, our existing patents may be invalidated, any patents that we currently or prospectively apply may not be granted, or any of these patents may not ultimately provide significant commercial benefits. Further, competing companies may circumvent any patents that we may hold by developing products which closely emulate but do not infringe our patents. While we currently have and intend to seek patent protection for our products in selected foreign countries, those patents may not receive the same degree of protection as they would in the United States. We may not be able to successfully defend our patents and proprietary rights in any action we may file for patent infringement. Similarly, we may be required to defend litigation involving the patents or proprietary rights of others, or we may be able to obtain licenses for these rights. Legal and accounting costs relating to prosecuting or defending patent infringement litigation may be substantial. The WavSTAT System is protected by 34 issued patents, in the United States and approximately 25 foreign patents, which we own, and one additional patent for which we own the exclusive license. We also rely on proprietary designs, technologies, processes and know-how not eligible for patent protection. Our competitors may independently develop the same or superior designs, technologies, processes and know-how. While we have and will continue to enter into proprietary rights agreements with our employees and third parties giving us proprietary rights to certain technology developed by those employees or parties while engaged by the Company, courts of competent jurisdiction may not enforce those agreements. The patents we own comprise a large portion of our assets, which could limit our financial viability. Our patents comprise approximately 70% of our assets at December 31, 2012. If our existing patents are invalidated or if they fail to provide significant commercial benefits, it will severely hurt our financial condition, as a significant percentage of our assets would lose their value. Further, since our patents are amortized over the course of their term until they expire, our assets comprised of patents will continually be written down to zero. Legislative actions and potential new accounting pronouncements are likely to impact our future financial position and results of operations. Compliance with publicly-traded company regulations adversely impacts our resources. As a publicly-traded company, we are subject to rules and regulations that increase our legal and financial compliance costs, make some activities more time-consuming and costly, and divert our management's attention away from the operation of our business. We are obligated to file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, annual and quarterly information and other reports that are specified in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act, and are also subject to other reporting and corporate governance requirements, including requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, which impose significant compliance and reporting obligations upon us. We may not be successful in complying with these obligations, and compliance with these obligations could be time consuming and expensive. Failure to comply with the additional reporting and corporate governance requirements could lead to fines imposed on us, deregistration under the Exchange Act and, in the most egregious cases, criminal sanctions could be imposed. Our products may be subject to recall or product liability claims. Our WavSTAT System products may be used in connection with medical procedures in which it is important that those products function with precision and accuracy. If our products do not function as designed, or are designed improperly, we may be forced by regulatory agencies to withdraw such products from the market. In addition, if medical personnel or their patients suffer injury as a result of any failure of our products to function as designed, or due to an inappropriate design, we may be subject to lawsuits seeking significant compensatory and punitive damages. Any product recall or lawsuit seeking significant monetary damages may have a material effect on our business and financial condition. We are heavily reliant on a single distributor to market and sell our WavSTAT System. PENTAX is the sole distributor of our WavSTAT System. We have limited control over PENTAX’s sales and marketing efforts for our primary product. We do not presently have any other distributors for our WavSTAT System, and are solely dependent on the distribution efforts of PENTAX. If PENTAX were to scale back or terminate its distribution relationship with us, we may be unable to find a distributor with the scale and resources of PENTAX, if at all. Since the WavSTAT System is our sole source of revenues and projected revenue growth, a delay or failure by PENTAX to successfully market the product will decrease our future revenues and competitive advantage. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None 