Item 1A. Risk Factors Operating losses may continue, which could adversely affect financial results from operations and stockholder value. In each year since its inception, except for the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company incurred operating losses, which were significant in certain periods. For the five-year period ended December 31, 2005, those losses aggregated approximately $7,769. At December 31, 2005, the accumulated deficit is approximately $84,575. While a profit was recorded for the year ended December 31, 2004 there is no guarantee that the Company will be profitable in future years and it may incur substantial losses in the future, which could adversely affect financial results from operations and stockholder value. We have experienced significant declines in revenues in recent periods which, if continued, could adversely affect stockholder value. Revenues decreased 57% for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. The Company believes the increases and decreases in prior years reflected significant fluctuation in information technology spending due primarily to the weak economy, both of which had a positive and negative impact on our revenues. The Company believes that a strengthening economy and projected increases in information technology spending as well as improvements in its sales and marketing efforts and cost-cutting measures that have reduced its expenses will reverse the current trend. However, The Company cannot predict with any degree of certainty whether the economy will continue to strengthen or whether information technology spending will continue to show signs of strengthening. We may need additional financing and, if we are unable to get additional financing when needed, we may be required to materially change our operations, which could adversely affect our results from operations and shareholder value. As of December 31, 2005, the Company’s working capital is approximately $2,258. With the exception of 2004, the Company has suffered recurring losses from operations that raised a substantial doubt about its ability to continue as a going concern. The Company cannot assure you that it will have adequate capital resources to fund planned operations or that any additional funds will be available to it when needed, or if available, will be available on favorable terms or in amounts the Company may require. If the Company is unable to obtain adequate capital resources to fund its operations, the Company may be required to delay, scale back or eliminate some or all of its operations, which may have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and ability to operate as a going concern. 11 Our competitors could develop products or technologies that could make our products or technologies non-competitive, which would adversely affect sales, financial results from operations and stockholder value. Although the Company believes that its patent portfolio provides a barrier to entry to the electronic signature verification market, there can be no assurance that it will not face significant competition in this and other aspects of its business. Some of the Company’s competitors, such as PenPower Group, and Palm Inc., have developed or are developing complete pen-based hardware and software systems. Others, such as Microsoft Corporation, Silanis Technology, Inc., and Advanced Recognition Technology, Inc., have focused on different elements of those systems, such as character recognition technology, pen-based operating systems and environments, and pen-based applications. Some of its competitors, including more established companies or those with greater financial or other resources, could develop products or technologies that are more effective, easier to use or less expensive than the Company’s. This could make the Company’s products and technologies obsolete or non-competitive, which would adversely affect sales, financial results from operations and stockholder value. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, third parties may be able to use our technology, which could adversely affect our ability to compete in the market, our financial results from operations and stockholder value. The Company relies on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and contractual provisions to protect its proprietary rights in its products and technologies. These protections may not adequately protect it for a number of reasons. First, the Company’s competitors may independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to ours. Second, the laws of some of the countries in which the Company’s products are licensed do not protect those products and its intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Third, because of the rapid evolution of technology and uncertainties in intellectual property law in the United States and internationally, the Company’s current and future products and technologies could be subject to infringement claims by others. Fourth, a substantial portion of its technology and know-how are trade secrets and are not protected by patent, trademark or copyright laws. The Company requires its employees, contractors and customers to execute written agreements that seek to protect its proprietary information. We also have a policy of requiring prospective business partners to enter into non-disclosure agreements before any of its proprietary information is revealed to them. However, the measures taken by the Company to protect our technology, products and other proprietary rights might not adequately protect it against improper use. The Company may be required to take legal action to protect or defend its proprietary rights. Litigation of third-party claims of intellectual property infringement during 2004 and 2005, have require the Company to spend substantial time and money to protect its proprietary rights. If the result of any litigation is adverse to the Company, it may be required to expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or obtain licenses from third parties. If the Company is not successful in those efforts or if it is required to pay any substantial litigation costs, its business would be materially and adversely affected. A significant portion of our sales are derived from a limited number of customers, and results from operations could be adversely affected and shareholder value harmed if we lost any of these customers. The Company’s revenues historically have been derived from a limited number of customers. Therefore, the success of its business depends on its ability to obtain customers and maintain satisfactory relationships with them in the future. The Company may not be able to continue to maintain satisfactory relationships with its customers in the future. Our top customer accounted for 23% and 46% of revenues in the years ended December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively. The loss of any significant customer or other revenue source would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenues and profitability. 12 Risks Related to our Capital Structure The market price of our stock can be volatile, which could result in losses for investors. The Company’s common stock is listed on the OTC. Stock prices of technology companies in recent years have experienced significant volatility, including price fluctuations that are unrelated or not proportional to the operating performance of these companies. Volatility on the OTC is typically higher than the volatility of stocks traded on Nasdaq or the exchanges. The market price of the Company’s common stock has been and could be subject to significant fluctuations as a result of variations in its operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new products by it or our competitors, announcements of new strategic relationships by the Company or our competitors, general conditions in the technology industry or market conditions unrelated to its business and operating results. Statutory provisions and provisions in our charter may delay or frustrate transactions that may be beneficial to our stockholders. Certain provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Act and our charter may delay or prevent a merger, tender offer or proxy contest that is not approved by the Company’s Board of Directors, even if such events may be beneficial to the interests of stockholders. For example, the Company’s Board, without shareholder approval, has the authority and power to issue all authorized and unissued shares of common stock and preferred stock which have not otherwise been reserved for issuance. In addition, the Delaware General Corporation Law contains provisions that may have the effect of making it more difficult or delaying attempts by others to obtain control of the Company. See "Description and Price Range of Common Stock—Anti-Takeover Provisions." Resale by the holder of the Notes and Warrants could adversely affect the market price of our stock. The holders of the remaining Notes and Warrants may immediately sell the shares issued upon conversion and exercise of the Notes and Warrants, respectively. In light of the Company’s historically low trading volume, such sales may adversely affect the price of the shares of its stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments As of the date of this report, the Company does not have any unresolved comments on our reports filed under the 1934 Act from staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Item 