Item 1A Risk Factors Our auditors have raised substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern without additional financing or the achievement of cash flow positive operations. The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared assuming that the Company will continue as a going concern. Except for 2004, the Company has incurred significant losses since its inception and, at December 31, 2007, the Company’s accumulated deficit was approximately $91,300. These factors raise substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. The Company has primarily funded these losses through the sale of debt and equity securities. Operating losses may continue, which could adversely affect financial results from operations and stockholder value. In each year since its inception, except for the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company incurred losses, which were significant in certain periods. For the five-year period ended December 31, 2007, those net losses aggregated approximately $11,441. At December 31, 2007, the accumulated deficit was approximately $91,300. While net income was recorded for the year ended December 31, 2004, there is no guarantee that the Company will be profitable in future years and it may incur substantial losses in the future, which could adversely affect stockholder value. Our competitors could develop products or technologies that could make our products or technologies non-competitive, which would adversely affect sales, financial results from operations and stockholder value. Although the Company believes that its patent portfolio provides a barrier to entry to the electronic signature market, and that its established relationships with its OEM customers in the natural input segment are sufficient to maintain that source of revenue, there can be no assurance that it will not face significant competition in this and other aspects of its business. Some of its competitors, including more established companies or those with greater financial or other resources, could develop products or technologies that are more effective, easier to use or less expensive than the Company’s. This could make the Company’s products and technologies obsolete or non-competitive, which would adversely affect sales, financial results from operations and stockholder value. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, third parties may be able to use our technology, which could adversely affect our ability to compete in the market, our financial results from operations and stockholder value. The Company relies on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and contractual provisions to protect its proprietary rights in its products and technologies. These protections may not adequately protect it for a number of reasons. First, the Company’s competitors may independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to ours. Second, the laws of some of the countries in which the Company’s products are licensed do not protect those products and its intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Third, because of the rapid evolution of technology and uncertainties in intellectual property law in the United States and internationally, the Company’s current and future products and technologies could be subject to infringement claims by others. Fourth, a substantial portion of its technology and know-how are trade secrets and are not protected by patent, trademark or copyright laws. The Company requires its employees, contractors and customers to execute written agreements that seek to protect its proprietary information. We also have a policy of requiring prospective business partners to enter into non-disclosure agreements before any of our proprietary information is revealed to them. However, the measures taken by the Company to protect its technology, products and other proprietary rights might not adequately protect it against improper use. - 8 - - The Company may be required to take legal action to protect or defend its proprietary rights. Litigation of third-party claims of intellectual property infringement during 2004 and 2005 required the Company to spend substantial time and financial resources to protect its proprietary rights. If the result of any litigation of this type is adverse to the Company, it may be required to expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or obtain licenses from third parties. If the Company is not successful in those efforts, or if it is required to pay any substantial litigation costs, its business would be materially and adversely affected. A significant portion of our sales are derived from a limited number of customers, and results from operations could be adversely affected and shareholder value harmed if we lost any of these customers. The Company’s revenues historically have been derived from hundreds of customers, however, a significant percentage of the revenue has been attributable to a limited number of customers. Our top customer accounted for 24% and 27% of revenues in the years ended December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006, respectively. The loss of any significant customer or other revenue source would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenues and profitability. The market price of our stock can be volatile, which could result in losses for investors. The Company’s common stock is listed on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board (“OTC”). Stock prices of technology companies in recent years have experienced significant volatility, including price fluctuations that are unrelated or not proportional to the operating performance of these companies. Volatility on the OTC is typically higher than the volatility of stocks traded on Nasdaq or other exchanges. The market price of the Company’s common stock has been and could be subject to significant fluctuations as a result of variations in its operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new products by it or our competitors, announcements of new strategic relationships by the Company or our competitors, general conditions in the technology industry or market conditions unrelated to its business and operating results. Statutory provisions and provisions in our charter may delay or frustrate transactions that may be beneficial to our stockholders. Certain provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Act and our charter may delay or prevent a merger, tender offer or proxy contest that is not approved by the Company’s Board of Directors, even if such events may be beneficial to the interests of stockholders. For example, the Company’s Board of Directors, without shareholder approval, has the authority and power to issue all authorized and unissued shares of common stock and preferred stock that have not otherwise been reserved for issuance. In addition, the Delaware General Corporation Law contains provisions that may have the effect of making it more difficult or delaying attempts by others to obtain control of the Company. Resale by the holders of outstanding convertible notes and warrants, or by the holders of shares of our common stock entitled to registration rights applicable to those shares, could adversely affect the market price of our stock. The holders of the warrants to purchase shares of our common stock may immediately sell the shares issued upon exercise of the warrants. In light of the Company’s historically low trading volume, such sales may adversely affect the price of the shares of the Company’s stock. In addition, certain of our stockholders are entitled to registration rights, and the Company recently filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission a resale registration statement on Form S-1, which became effective on December 28, 2007. The resale of the shares registered under the registration statement may be made at any time into the public trading market. In light of the historically low trading volume of our common stock, such sales or the perception that such sales may occur may adversely affect the price of the shares of our common stock. - 9 - - Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments As of the date of this report, the Company does not have any unresolved comments on our reports filed under the 1934 Act from staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Item 