Item 1A. Risk Factors. The continued issues in global credit and financial markets could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. The global credit and financial markets have been experiencing significant disruptions for several years, including diminished liquidity and credit availability. There can be no assurance that there will not be continuing, or even further, deterioration in credit and financial markets. These economic uncertainties affect businesses such as ours in a number of ways, making it difficult to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities. The continued tightening of credit in financial markets may lead consumers and businesses to postpone spending, which may cause our customers to decrease or delay their existing and future orders with us. In addition, financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers, distributors, or customers could result in product delays, increased accounts receivable defaults and inventory challenges. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current and potential future disruptions in the credit and financial markets and adverse global economic conditions. There can be no assurance that if the current uncertain economic conditions continue, it will not have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. The marketing and sale of our products involve lengthy sales cycles. This and other factors make business forecasting extremely difficult and can lead to significant fluctuations in period-to-period results. We have experienced fluctuations in our period-to-period revenue and operating results in the past and may experience similar fluctuations in the future. Our sales, on both an annual and a quarterly basis, can fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. We may have difficulty predicting the volume and timing of orders for products, and delays in closing orders can cause our operating results to fall short of anticipated levels for any period. Delays by our OEM customers in producing products that incorporate our products could also cause operating results to fall short of anticipated levels. Other factors that may particularly contribute to fluctuations in our revenue and operating results include success in achieving design wins, the market acceptance of the OEM products that incorporate our products, the rate of adoption of new products, competition from new technologies and other companies, and the variability of the life cycles of our customers’ products. 9 Because fluctuations can happen, we believe that comparisons of the results of our operations for preceding quarters are not necessarily predictive of future quarters and that investors should not rely on the results of any one quarter as an indication of how we will perform in the future. Investors should also understand that, if the revenue or operating results for any quarter are less than the level expected by securities analysts or the market in general, the market price of our common stock could immediately and significantly decline. The telecommunications signaling and networking business is characterized by rapid technological change and frequent introduction of new products. The market for our telecommunications products is characterized by rapid technological change and the frequent introduction of products based on new technologies. The overall telecommunications and networking industry is volatile, as the effects of new technologies, new standards, new products and short life cycles contribute to changes in the industry and the performance of industry participants. Future revenue will depend upon our ability to anticipate technological change and to develop and introduce enhanced products of our own on a timely basis that comply with new industry standards. New product introductions, or the delays thereof, could contribute to quarterly fluctuations in operating results as orders for new products commence and orders for existing products decline. Moreover, significant delays can occur between a product introduction and commencement of volume production. A typical time period from design-win of one of our telecommunications products to actual production is 18 to 30 months. This timing has varied significantly during times of mergers, economic instability, and technology changes affecting platform architectures. Our inability to develop and manufacture new products in a timely manner, the existence of reliability, quality or availability problems in our products or their component parts, or the failure to achieve market acceptance for our products could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. The Company must successfully manage new product and service introductions and the entry into new markets. As described under Item 1. “Business – Business Strategy” above, we are focused upon a multi-tiered strategy to expand our reach into innovative and sometimes market-disruptive technologies and services where we believe we have the technology and process excellence to be successful. As a result we intend to introduce new products, services and technologies, enhance existing products and services, and effectively stimulate customer demand for new and upgraded products. We expect that these new product and service introductions will lead us into markets where we have not previously competed. The success of new product and service introductions will depend on a number of factors including, but not limited to, timely and successful development of products or services, market acceptance, our ability to manage the risks associated with new products and production ramp issues, the effective management of purchase commitments and inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand, the availability of products in appropriate quantities and costs to meet anticipated demand, the risk that new products may have quality or other defects in the early stages of introduction, and the availability of qualified persons to perform new services. Accordingly, we cannot determine in advance the ultimate effect that new product and service introductions and the entry into new markets will have on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. 10 Litigation against us could require significant time of our management, be costly to defend against and/or negatively impact our operating results. As noted under Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” below, twenty-five former employees (“Plaintiffs”) of Interphase SAS, a subsidiary of Interphase Corporation, brought suit in France against Interphase SAS alleging various causes of action and rights to damages relating to claims of wrongful dismissal of employment, specific French employment indemnities, general economic losses, and contractual claims relating specifically to their employment relationship and contracts entered into between the individual and Interphase SAS. The lawsuits were filed between November 2010 and April 2011 and are pending in the Labor Court of Boulogne-Billancourt, France and the Administrative Court of Cergy-Pontoise, France. The various claims and assertions arise from, and relate to, the Plaintiffs’ release from employment as part of the restructuring actions taken during the third quarter of 2010. See Note 7 in the notes to the consolidated financial statements for more information regarding the 2010 restructuring plan. The updated statement of claim is for an aggregate payment of approximately €3.1 million, which translated to approximately $4.1 million at December 31, 2012, related to these claims. We believe that the Plaintiffs’ claims are without merit and plan to continue to vigorously defend ourselves in this lawsuit. Although we do not believe that the Plaintiffs’ claims have merit, litigation (particularly outside of the United States) is inherently unpredictable, and it is possible that we would be required to pay an additional amount to the Plaintiffs. If the potential required amount is significant, the payment could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Further, if this litigation were to continue for an extended time, our defense of the Plaintiffs’ claims, even if successful, could require us to pay significant costs (including fees of counsel) and require time and energy of management that could otherwise be spent on our business, all of which could negatively affect our financial condition and operations. On April 7, 2011, Interphase was named as one of the defendants in a lawsuit filed by Mosaid Technologies (“Mosaid”) pending in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint includes allegations that Interphase has infringed and is still infringing upon a certain registered U.S. patent to which Mosaid has enforcement rights. The sole infringement allegation directed at Interphase appears to concern communications controller chips that Interphase purchases (indirectly) from Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. (“Freescale”), another defendant in the infringement allegation, which are used in several of Interphase’s products. The complaint requests a judgment that Mosaid’s patents have been and are being infringed upon and, accordingly, an award of an unspecified amount of damages, plus interest and costs, as well as injunctive relief and any other remedies available under law. Because the complaint claims the alleged infringing conduct is willful, it also requests treble damages and attorneys’ fees under the applicable U.S. patent statute. Following a settlement agreement entered into by Mosaid, Freescale, Interphase, and the other parties to this lawsuit, on February 28, 2013, the court entered an order dismissing this lawsuit and all claims asserted therein by Mosaid against Freescale and Interphase with prejudice. 11 We operate in an intensely competitive marketplace and many of our competitors have greater resources than we do. We face competition from a number of established and emerging companies, both public and private, in the markets we serve. Our principal competitors generally have established brand name recognition and market positions, and have substantially greater financial resources to deploy on promotion, advertising, research and product development. In addition, as we broaden our product and service offerings, we may face competition from new competitors. Companies in related markets could offer products with functionality similar or superior to our product offerings. Increased competition could result in significant pricing pressures, which could result in significantly lower average selling prices for our products and services. We may not be able to offset the effects of any price reductions with an increase in sales volumes, cost reductions or otherwise. We expect competition to increase as a result of industry consolidations and alliances, as well as the potential emergence of new competitors. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully with existing or new competitors or that competitive pressures will not have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. The loss of one or more key customers, or reduced spending by customers, could significantly impact our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. While we enjoy very good relationships with our customers, there can be no assurance that our principal customers will continue to purchase products from us at the current levels. Orders from our customers are affected by factors such as new product introductions, product life cycles, inventory levels, manufacturing strategies, contract awards, competitive conditions and general economic conditions. Customers typically do not enter into long-term volume purchase contracts with us, and they have certain rights to extend or delay the shipment of their orders. The loss of one or more of our major customers, or the reduction, delay or cancellation of orders or a delay in shipment of products to such customers, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Schedule delays, cancellations of programs and changes in customer markets can delay or prevent a design-win from reaching the production phase, which could negatively impact our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. In the telecommunications industry, a design-win occurs when a customer or prospective customer notifies us that our product has been selected to be integrated with their product. Ordinarily, there are a number of steps between the design-win and when customers initiate production shipments. Design-wins reach production volumes at varying rates, typically beginning approximately 18 to 30 months after the design-win occurs. A variety of risks, such as schedule delays, customer consolidations, cancellations of programs and changes in customer markets, can delay or prevent the design-win from reaching the production phase. The customer's failure to bring its product (into which our product is designed) to the production phase could have an adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. 12 Design defects, errors or problems in our products or services could harm our reputation, revenue and profitability. If we deliver products or services with errors, defects or problems, our credibility, market acceptance and sales of our products and services could be harmed. Further, if our products or services contain errors, defects or problems, we may be required to expend significant capital and resources to alleviate such problems. Defects could also lead to product liability lawsuits against us or our customers, tort or warranty claims, increased insurance costs or increased service and warranty costs, any of which could harm our business. We have agreed to indemnify our customers in some circumstances against liability from defects in our products. While no such litigation currently exists, product liability litigation arising from errors, defects or problems, even if it resulted in an outcome favorable to us, would be time consuming and costly to defend. Existing or future laws, or unfavorable judicial decisions, could negate any limitation-of-liability provisions that are included in our license agreements. A product liability claim, whether or not successful, could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We maintain insurance coverage for product liability claims. Although we believe this coverage is adequate, there can be no assurance that coverage under insurance policies will be adequate to cover specific product liability claims made against us. In addition, product liability insurance could become more expensive and difficult to maintain and may not be available in the future on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The amount and scope of any insurance coverage may be inadequate if a product liability claim is successfully asserted against us. If our third party suppliers fail to produce quality products or parts in a timely manner, we may not be able to meet our customers’ demands. Certain components used in our products are currently available from one or only a limited number of sources. There can be no assurance that future supplies will be adequate for our needs or will be available with acceptable prices and terms. Inability in the future to obtain sufficient limited-source components, or to develop alternative sources, could result in delays in product introduction or shipments, and increased component prices could negatively affect gross margins, either of which could have a material adverse effect on operating results, financial condition and cash flows. New regulations related to conflict minerals could adversely impact our business. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act contains provisions to improve transparency and accountability concerning the supply of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals, originating from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries that are believed to be benefitting armed groups. As a result, the SEC has recently adopted new due diligence, disclosure and reporting requirements for companies which manufacture products that include components containing such minerals. Since we manufacture such products, we will be required to comply with the new SEC rules, with our first required report due in May 2014. We expect that the compliance process will be both time-consuming and costly. There will be costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including diligence to determine the sources of minerals used in our products and other potential changes to products, processes or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. The implementation of these rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in our products. Because there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering “conflict free” minerals, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain necessary minerals from such suppliers in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. In addition, our supply chain is complex and we may not be able to easily verify the origins for all minerals used in our products. We may face reputational challenges with our customers and other stakeholders if our products contain minerals not determined to be conflict free or if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins of minerals contained in the components included in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement. 13 We are dependent on one manufacturing facility, and if there is an interruption in production we may not be able to deliver products on a timely basis. We manufacture our products at our Carrollton, Texas facility, and have established alternative manufacturing capabilities through a third party in the event of a disaster in the current facility. Even though we have been successful in establishing an alternative third-party contract manufacturer, there can be no assurance that we would be able to retain its services at the same costs we currently enjoy. In the event of an interruption in production, we may not be able to deliver products on a timely basis, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and operating results. Although we currently have business interruption insurance and a disaster recovery plan to mitigate the effect of an interruption, no assurances can be given that such insurance or recovery plan will adequately cover lost business as a result of such an interruption. Because business forecasting is difficult and involves uncertainty, we may fail to accurately forecast demand for our products which may expose us to risk associated with inventory. We must identify the right product mix and maintain sufficient inventory on hand to meet customer orders. Failure to do so could adversely affect our sales and earnings. However, if circumstances change, there could be a material impact on the net realizable value of our inventory, which could adversely affect our results. We may be unable to effectively protect our proprietary technology, which would negatively affect our ability to compete. Also, if our products are alleged to violate the proprietary rights of others, our ability to compete would be negatively impacted. Our success depends partly upon certain proprietary technologies developed within our products. Historically, we have relied principally upon trademark, copyright and trade secret laws to protect our proprietary technologies. Over the last few years, we also filed a number of patents and trademarks with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and internationally. In addition, we generally enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our customers, distributors and potential customers, which limit access to, and distribution of, the source code to our software and other proprietary information. Our employees are subject to our strict employment policy regarding confidentiality. There can be no assurance that the steps taken by us in this regard will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technologies or to provide an effective remedy in the event of a misappropriation by others. Although we believe our products do not infringe on the proprietary rights of third parties, there can be no assurance that infringement claims will not be asserted, possibly resulting in costly litigation in which we may not ultimately prevail. Adverse determinations in such litigation could result in the loss of proprietary rights, subject us to significant liabilities, require that we seek licenses from third parties or prevent us from manufacturing or selling our products, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. 14 It may be necessary to obtain technology licenses from others due to the large number of patents in the markets we serve and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents and new standards or to obtain important new technology. There can be no assurance that these third party technology licenses will be available on commercially reasonable terms. The loss of, or inability to, obtain any of these technology licenses could result in delays or reductions in product shipments. Such delays or reductions in product shipments could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. We depend on key personnel to manage our business effectively. Our success and the pursuit of our business strategy depend on the continued contributions of our personnel and on our ability to attract and retain skilled employees for our current and future business. Changes in personnel could adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. We have substantial international activities, which expose us to additional business risks, including political, economic and currency risks. In 2012, we derived approximately 43% of our revenues from sales outside of North America. Economic and political conditions in some of these markets, as well as different legal, tax, accounting and other regulatory requirements, may adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. We are exposed to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates because we conduct business on a global basis and in some cases in foreign currencies. Our operations in France have been measured in the local currency and converted into U.S. Dollars based on published exchange rates for the periods reported and were therefore subject to risk of exchange rate fluctuations (See Item 7A. “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk – Foreign Currency Risk” below). We may require additional working capital to fund operations and expand our business. We believe our current financial resources will be sufficient to meet our present working capital and capital expenditure requirements for the next twelve months. However, we may need to raise additional capital before this period ends to: · fund research and development of new products beyond what is expected in 2013; · expand product and service offerings beyond what is contemplated in 2013 if unforeseen opportunities arise; · respond to a rapid increase in demand for our products; · take advantage of potential acquisition opportunities in the current economic environment; · invest in businesses and technologies that complement our current operations; or · respond to unforeseen competitive pressures. 15 Our future liquidity and capital requirements will depend upon numerous factors, including the success of the existing and new product and service offerings and potentially competing technological and market developments. However, any projections of future cash flows are subject to substantial uncertainty. From time to time, we expect to evaluate the acquisition of, or investment in, businesses and technologies that complement our current operations. If current cash, marketable securities, lines of credit and cash generated from operations are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity securities, issue debt securities or increase our working capital line of credit. The sale of additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to shareholders. There can be no assurance that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable, if at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, our ability to develop or enhance products and services, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures would be limited. This limitation could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We have incurred significant losses, which may result in volatility in our stock price. We posted net losses of $3.8 million, $505,000 and $8.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. In order to achieve consistent profitability, we will need to generate higher revenues while containing costs and operating expenses. We cannot be certain that our revenues will grow or that we will generate sufficient revenues to achieve and maintain profitability on a long-term, sustained basis. If we fail to achieve and maintain profitability, the market price of our common stock will likely be negatively impacted. We may experience significant period-to-period quarterly and annual fluctuations in our revenue and operating results, which may result in volatility in our stock price. The trading price of our common stock is subject to wide fluctuations in response to quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in operating results, general conditions in the telecommunications and networking industry and other events or factors. In addition, stock markets have experienced extreme price and trading volume volatility in recent years. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market price of the securities of many high-technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, which has historically had relatively small trading volumes. As a result, small transactions in our common stock can have a disproportionately large impact on its price. We no longer comply with all of the continued listing requirements for the NASDAQ Global Market. If we do not regain compliance, our listing may be transferred to a lower-tier NASDAQ market or our stock may not continue to be traded on an established exchange, so that an active trading market may not exist and the trading price of our stock may decline. Our common stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ Global Market. The NASDAQ Global Market’s continued listing standards for our common stock require, among other things, that (i) the closing bid price for our common stock not fall below $1.00; (ii) we have at least 400 beneficial holders and/or holders of record of our common stock; (iii) our stockholders’ equity not fall below $10 million; (iv) we have more than 750,000 shares held by the public (excluding officers, directors, and beneficial holders of 10% or more) with a market value of at least $5.0 million; and (v) we have at least two registered and active dealers meeting the requirements set forth in the standards. 16 On February 21, 2013, we received a letter from the Listing Qualifications Department of the NASDAQ Stock Market LLC (“NASDAQ”) notifying us that we are no longer in compliance with the minimum stockholders' equity requirement for continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Market as set forth in NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 5450(b)(1)(A) (the "Rules"). The Rules require listed companies to maintain stockholders’ equity of at least $10 million. Our stockholders’ equity of $9,053,000 for the year ended December 31, 2012, as reported on our Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 15, 2013, does not comply with the NASDAQ’S continued listing requirements. We also do not meet the continued listing requirements under the alternative standards. NASDAQ’S letter has no immediate effect on the listing of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market. Rather, we have 45 calendar days from the date of the letter to submit to NASDAQ a plan to regain compliance. If we submit a plan, NASDAQ will determine whether to accept the plan, considering such criteria as the likelihood that the plan will result in compliance with NASDAQ’S continued listing requirements, our past compliance history, the reasons for our current non-compliance, other corporate events that may occur within the review period, our overall financial condition and our public disclosures. If the plan is accepted, NASDAQ may grant an extension of up to 180 calendar days from the date of the letter for us to evidence compliance. If NASDAQ does not accept the plan, we will have the opportunity to appeal that decision to a Hearings Panel. However, there is no guarantee that we will be able to regain compliance with the continued listing requirement of the Rules or that our plan will be accepted by NASDAQ. Alternatively, we may consider applying to transfer our securities to The NASDAQ Capital Market (the “Capital Market”). In order to transfer, we must meet the Capital Market’s continued listing requirements, except for the bid price, and submit an on-line transfer application no later than April 8, 2013. A further alternative would be to delist voluntarily from NASDAQ to have our common stock trade on the over-the-counter bulletin board or the “pink sheets,” or even to “go dark.” A transfer of our listing to the Capital Market or having our common stock trade on the bulletin board or the “pink sheets” could adversely affect the liquidity of our common stock. Any such event could make it more difficult to dispose of, or obtain accurate quotations for the price of, our common stock, and there also would likely be a reduction in our coverage by securities analysts and the news media, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline further. We may also face other material adverse consequences in such event, such as negative publicity, a decreased ability to obtain additional financing, diminished investor, customer, and/or employee confidence, and the loss of business development opportunities, some or all of which may contribute to a further decline in our stock price. We are currently evaluating our available options. We expect our Board of Directors to take such action as it determines to be in the best interest of our shareholders, though a transfer of the listing of our common stock to the Capital Market currently appears the most likely alternative. 17 Certain provisions of Texas law and our shareholder rights plan may make it more difficult to acquire us, even if such acquisition may be beneficial to our shareholders. Certain provisions of the Texas corporate statute, to which we are subject, limits business combinations with any “affiliated shareholder,” which is generally any person or group of persons that is, or has been during the preceding three years, the beneficial owner of 20% or more of our outstanding voting shares. Also, we have in place a shareholder rights plan, commonly referred to as a “poison pill” (see Note 9 in the notes to the consolidated financial statements). The statutory provisions and the rights plan may discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us or acquiring a large portion of our shares (including by initiating a tender offer), even if our shareholders might receive for their shares in any such acquisition a premium over the then current market price of the shares. The cost of compliance or failure to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 may adversely affect our business. As a smaller reporting company, we are not subject to the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 that require an attestation report from our independent registered public accounting firm regarding our internal controls over financial reporting. If we cease to qualify as a smaller reporting company or as a non-accelerated filer, we would become subject to this requirement, which could cause us to incur substantial additional costs and may adversely affect our financial results. The failure of our independent registered public accounting firm to concur with management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting may result in investors losing confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which may result in a decrease in the trading price of our common stock. It may also prevent us from providing the required financial information in a timely manner which could materially and adversely impact our business, our financial condition and the trading price of our common stock, and it may prevent us from otherwise complying with the standards applicable to us as a public company and subject us to additional regulatory consequences. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 