Item 1A.Risk Factors Item 1B.Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2.Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4.Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6.Selected Consolidated Financial Data Item 7.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence Item 14. Principal Accountanting Fees and Services PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules SIGNATURES INDEX TO EXHIBITS Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification Section 1350 Certification Section 1350 Certification Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business. Introduction Interphase Corporation and subsidiaries (“Interphase” or the “Company”) is a leading provider of robust building blocks, highly integrated subsystems and innovative gateway appliances for the converged communications network. Building on a 30-year history of providing advanced I/O solutions for telecom and enterprise applications, and addressing the need for high speed connectivity, Interphase (NASDAQ: INPH) has established a key leadership role in delivering next generation AdvancedTCA® (ATCA) and AdvancedMC™ (AMC) solutions to the marketplace. Headquartered in Plano, Texas with sales offices across the globe, Interphase clients include Alcatel-Lucent, Ericsson, Fujitsu Ltd., Hewlett Packard, Motorola Inc., Nokia, Nortel Networks Ltd. and Samsung. Interphase is a contributor member of the Scope Alliance and the Communications Platform Trade Association (CP-TA). The Company maintains a Web site on the Internet with the address of www.interphase.com. Copies of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006 and copies of the Company’s Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for 2005 and 2006 and any Current Reports on Form 8-K for 2005 and 2006, and any amendments thereto, are or will be available free of charge as soon as reasonably practical after they are filed with Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) at such Web site. The general public may obtain any materials the Company files with the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330, or since the Company is an electronic filer, the SEC maintains an Internet Web site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Key Terms and Definitions Interphase is a technology company; as such, many terms used by the Company may be unfamiliar to those outside the industry. The following are some key terms that may be useful in helping the reader understand the products, technologies, and markets relevant for the Company. 3G – Third-generation mobile telephone technology. The services associated with 3G provide the ability to transfer both voice data (a telephone call) and non-voice data (such as downloading information, exchanging email, and instant messaging). 3GPP – 3rd Generation Partnership Project; a collaboration agreement that was established in December 1998. 3GPP is a co-operation among the following standards organizations: ETSI (Europe), ARIB/TTC (Japan), CCSA (China), ATIS (North America) and TTA (South Korea). The scope of 3GPP is to make a globally applicable 3G mobile phone system specification within the scope of the ITU’s IMT-2000 project. 3GPP specifications are based on evolved GSM specifications, now generally known as the UMTS system. Adapter – Also called a host bus adapter (HBA) or network interface card (NIC). An adapter is a device that connects a computer server to one or more peripheral devices (such as switches, hubs, storage devices, etc.) or other computers. An adapter card typically plugs into the expansion bus of a system and communicates with the operating system controlling the system via the use of specific device drivers. 1 Table of Contents Adapters generally refer to passive (non-intelligent) printed circuit boards used for interfacing to a network. AdvancedTCA® or ATCA (Advanced Telecom Computing Architecture) – The next generation of platform architecture beyond CompactPCI defined by the PICMG standards body as the PICMG 3.0 series of specifications. This architecture affords greater bandwidth, processing and board density, cooling abilities, and memory, while enabling delivery of highly reliable, scalable and manageable telecommunications products to meet the growing needs of next-generation applications for converged communications networks. AdvancedTCA is a registered trademark of PICMG. AdvancedMC™ or AMC (Advanced Mezzanine Card) – AdvancedMC specifications define the mezzanine card form factor for use with ATCA platforms. AdvancedMC enhances ATCA flexibility by extending its high-bandwidth, multi-protocol interface to individual hot-swappable modules, which are optimized for packet based telecom applications. Together, ATCA blades equipped with AdvancedMC modules give telecom equipment manufacturers (or TEMs) a versatile platform for quickly building modular telecom systems that could be designed, manufactured, scaled, upgraded and serviced at a much lower cost. AdvancedMC is a trademark of PICMG. ASN Gateway - The ASN Gateway (ASN-GW) is a logical entity in the WiMAX network architecture that represents an aggregation of control plane functional entities that are either paired with a corresponding function in the WiMAX Access Service Network (ASN) or a resident function in the WiMAX Core Service Network. The ASN-GW may also perform bearer plane routing or bridging function. Asynchronous Transfer Mode (ATM) – A network technology used in Wide Area Networks that supports real-time voice, real-time video and data. The topology uses switches that establish a logical circuit from end to end, which guarantees a quality of service for that transmission. However, unlike telephone switches that dedicate circuits end-to-end, unused bandwidth in ATM circuits can be appropriated whenever available. For example, idle bandwidth in a videoconference circuit can be used to transfer data. ATM is also highly scalable and supports transmission speeds of 1.5, 25, 100, 155, 622 and 2488 Megabits per second (Mbps). Backplane – The interconnect mechanism that links all printed circuit boards within a system so various boards can communicate and work together for a common purpose as a system. The backplane extends perpendicularly across all boards in a system and offers sockets for boards to be plugged into. Base Station Controller (BSC) – A robust network element that handles allocation of radio channels, receives measurements from mobile phones, and controls handovers from base station to base station, etc. Many BSCs act as a full switching center while also providing data for network management and measurement. Blade – A subsystem within a system contained within a single system slot. A blade can operate as a single board in a slot or with a multitude of boards, including mezzanine cards on a carrier card. Broadband – A transmission facility (communications link) that has bandwidth (capacity) greater than a traditional voice grade line. 2 Table of Contents Building Blocks – The basic board-level products used in a system; these products are combined with other hardware and software building blocks to build a network element, system and/or application. Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA) – A form of multiplexing and a method of multiple access that does not divide up the channel by time or frequency, but instead encodes data with a certain code associated with a channel and uses the constructive interference properties of the signal medium to perform the multiplexing. CDMA is used in digital cellular telephony systems for delivery of very high bandwidth mobile access. Communications Controller – Communications controller modules (similar to a network interface card) designed specifically for carrier-grade computer systems that often support signaling, switching and routing networks. Communication controllers must conform to specifications that maintain overall system compliance to the rigorous performance and reliability standards that apply to telecom service provider equipment into which they are integrated. Controllers are essentially intelligent network interface cards. CompactPCI® (cPCI) – An industrial-grade variation of the PCI bus standard that utilizes the VME form factor. CompactPCI was widely adopted by telecom equipment suppliers because of its high-density connectors, support for front or rear I/O access and hot-swap capabilities important for “Five 9s” (99.999%) reliability. Often referred to as cPCI, it is a standardized architecture for printed circuit boards (governed by PICMG) used in the embedded systems industry, particularly in carrier communications and industrial computing market segments. CompactPCI Packet Switching Backplane (cPSB) – The newest generation of the CompactPCI standard that enables an Ethernet-based interconnection fabric across a system backplane in lieu of the H.110 PCI bus. This backplane technology served as the foundation for the new AdvancedTCA standard architecture from PICMG. DS3 – A digital transmission link equivalent to 28 T1 lines. Providing a capacity of 45 Mbps, a DS3 link is capable of handling 672 voice conversations. DSL or xDSL – DSL or xDSL is a family of technologies that provides digital data transmission over the wires of a local telephone network. Ethernet – A Local Area Network standard used for connecting computers, printers, workstations, and servers. Ethernet operates over twisted wire, coaxial cable and fibre optic cables at speeds starting at 10 Mega Bits per second (10Mbps). The original 10Mbps specification was extended to a speed of 100Mbps transmission bandwidth with Fast Ethernet and to 1Gbps with Gigabit Ethernet. Gigabit Ethernet is now the most popular variant being deployed. Ethernet itself has evolved to the next 10Gbps transmission bandwidth capability. As network bandwidth usage continues to rapidly expand world-wide, 10Gbps is expected to become a commonplace offering in enterprise and service provider networks. European Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI) – An independent, non-profit organization, whose mission is to produce telecommunications standards for today and for the future for global networks. ETSI has been successful in standardizing the GSM mobile phone system. Gateway Appliances – Network elements that provide translation functions between multiple protocols used for transfer of data and to control information across networks. 3 Table of Contents Gigabits per second (Gbps) – One thousand million bits per second. Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM) – The most popular standard for mobile phones in the world. GSM differs significantly from its predecessors in that both signaling and speech channels are digital, which means that it is considered a second generation (2G) mobile phone system. This fact has also meant that data communication was built into the system from very early on. GSM is an open standard which is currently developed by the 3GPP. GSM service is used by over 1.5 billion people across more than 210 countries and territories. The ubiquity of the GSM standard makes international roaming very common between mobile phone operators, enabling subscribers to use their phones in many parts of the world. Input/output (I/O) – The transfer of data or voice traffic into and out of a computing device. The main function of an adapter, communications controller, or network interface card is to regulate or control communications I/O. International Mobile Telecommunications-2000 (IMT-2000) – The global standard for third generation (3G) wireless communications as defined by the International Telecommunication Union. International Telecommunication Union (ITU) – An international organization established to standardize and regulate international radio and telecommunications. It was founded as the International Telegraph Union in Paris on May 17, 1865. Its main tasks include standardization, allocation of the radio spectrum, and organizing interconnection arrangements between different countries to allow international phone calls. Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) – Formed in 1986, the IETF sets technical standards that run the Internet such as routing, transport and security. Internet Protocol (IP) – The standard method or protocol by which data is sent from one computer to another on the Internet. Internet Protocol Television (IPTV ) – A system where digital television is delivered over the internet. Inverse Multiplexing over ATM (IMA) – A specification defined by the ATM forum that provides a way to combine an ATM cell stream over two or more circuits. IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) – A standardized Next Generation Networking (NGN) architecture designed to enable both wireless and wireline carriers to create and deliver a full portfolio of new telecom services quickly and cost-effectively, and promises to be the cornerstone for fixed/mobile convergence within the telecom world. This network architecture based on the IETF SIP protocol was initially developed for delivering multi-media services in the 3G network by 3GPP but has been widely adopted and extended to enable fixed and mobile network convergence.. IP-PBX – An IP-PBX is a private branch exchange (telephone switching system within an enterprise) that switches calls between VoIP users on local lines while allowing all users to share a certain number of external phone lines. 4 Table of Contents IP Security (IPSec) – A security protocol from the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) that provides authentication and encryption over the Internet. I-TDM – I-TDM is a PICMG standard optimized to transport and switch 64 Kbps low-latency communications traffic over Voice LANs and Packet Backplanes. Local Area Network (LAN) – A short-distanced data communications network that is contained within a building or complex. Its primary use is to link computers and peripheral devices (such as printers) and to provide individuals with access to databases and applications running on servers attached to the network. Anyone connected to the LAN can send messages to and work jointly with others on the network. Media Gateway – A networking device that converts data from the format required for one type of network to the format required for another. The media gateway is controlled by the media gateway controller. Both are a component of softswitch. Megabits per second (Mbps) – One million bits per second, when used as a measurement for the speed of telecommunications, networking or local area networking. MicroTCA – A set of standards that defines the ability to use AdvancedMC modules directly, without the need for an ATCA or custom carrier, enabling TEMs to achieve substantial reductions in size, cost and power requirements. MicroTCA is complementary to ATCA for small form-factor central office and outside plant applications like wireless base stations, Wi-Fi/WiMax radio boxes, next-generation digital loop carriers, optical Add/Drop Multiplexers and Fiber-to-the-Curb optical network units. The initial standards are expected to be completed by mid-2007. Multilink PPP (MLPPP) – A bandwidth-on-demand protocol that can connect multiple links between two systems as needed to provide bandwidth on demand. Network Elements – Equipment in the telecommunications network that provides various network functions. OC-3/STM-1 – The American and European standards (respectively) for optical connections at 155.52 Mbps. This line speed is very common in telecommunications access networks. OC-12/STM-4 – The American and European standards (respectively) for optical connections at 672 Mbps. Operating System – The master control program that runs the computer. It is the first program loaded when the computer is turned on, and its main part, called the kernel, resides in memory at all times. It may be developed by the vendor of the computer it is running in or by a third party. It is an important component of the computer system because it sets the operational guidelines for all application programs that run on the system. All programs must “talk to” the operating system. Popular network operating systems today include Windows® NT, XP and 2000, VxWorks®, Solaris™ and Linux. Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) – Manufacturers who resell other companies’ products under its own name. 5 Table of Contents Packet Processing – Real time wire-speed analysis and processing of packets in the IP network. PCI Industrial Computer Manufacturers Group (PICMG) – The technical standards governing body responsible for specifying technical requirements of specific systems architectures, including PCI, CompactPCI, CPSB, and AdvancedTCA. Standardized architectures are intended to provide a common set of rules and parameters for creating a system. The resulting benefit of such specifications is interoperability among multiple vendors for complementary system, thereby providing alternatives to market monopolies created by proprietary system architectures. PCI Mezzanine Card (PMC) – A low profile mezzanine card that is electronically equivalent to the Peripheral Component Interconnect (PCI) specification. PMC cards are used as a quick and cost-effective method to add modular I/O to other card formats such as VME and CompactPCI, thus expanding the processing or I/O density of a single system slot. Peripheral Components Interconnect (PCI) – A printed circuit board bus standard that is currently the main general-purpose bus in many desktop computers and a majority of enterprise servers throughout the world. Telecom servers generally use the newer generation of the PCI architecture which is CompactPCI. Peripheral Components Interconnect–Express (PCI-e) – An I/O interconnect bus standard that expands on and doubles the data transfer rates of original PCI. PCI-e is a two-way, serial connection that carries data in packets along two pairs of point-to-point data lanes, compared to the single parallel data bus of traditional PCI that routes data at a set rate. Peripheral Components Interconnect–Extended (PCI-x) – An extension of the original PCI design, PCI-x increases the internal bus speed from 66 MHz to 133 MHz. PCI-x supports a maximum rate of data exchange of 1.06 Gbps. This level of bandwidth is critical for servers running Gigabit Ethernet, Fibre Channel and other high-speed networking applications. Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP) – A protocol defined for direct communication links between two nodes in a network. Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN) – The concentration of the world’s public circuit-switched telephone networks, in much the same way that the Internet is the concentration of the world’s public IP-based packet-switched networks. Originally a network of fixed-line analog telephone systems, the PSTN is now almost entirely digital, and now includes mobile as well as fixed telephones. Protocol – A specific set of rules, procedures or conventions relating to format and timing of data transmission between two devices in a telecommunication connection. Radio Network Controller (RNC) – The governing element in a 3G wireless radio access network responsible for control of base stations which are connected to the controller. The RNC carries out radio resource management, some of the mobility management functions and is the point where encryption is done before user data is sent to and from the mobile device. Router – A highly intelligent device that acts as a junction between two networks to transfer data packets among them. 6 Table of Contents RTP – Real Time Transport Protocol provides end-to-end network transport functions suitable for applications transmitting real-time data, such as audio, video or simulation data, over multicast or unicast network services. Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) – A text-based protocol developed by the IETF for initiating, modifying, and terminating an interactive session between users that involves multimedia elements such as video, voice, instant messaging, online games, and virtual reality in an IP-based packet network. In November 2000, SIP was accepted as a 3GPP signaling protocol and permanent element of the IMS architecture. SIP is one of the leading signaling protocols for VoIP. Signaling Gateway – A gateway appliance component solely responsible for translating signaling messages (i.e., information about call establishment and teardown) between one medium (usually IP) and another (PSTN). A signaling gateway is often part of a softswitch in modern VoIP deployments. Signaling System 7 (SS7) – The protocols used in the PSTN for setting up calls and providing modern transaction services such as caller ID, automatic recall and call forwarding. When you dial “1” in front of a number, SS7 routes the call to your long distance carrier and it also routes local calls based on the first three digits of the phone number. Signaling Transport (SIGTRAN) – A standard defined by IETF as “an architecture framework for transport of message-based signaling protocols over IP networks.” Softswitch (Software Switch) – A generic term for an open application program interface software used to bridge a public switched telephone network and the Internet Protocol by separating the call control functions of a phone call from the media gateway (transport layer). T1/E1 – A digital transmission link with a capacity of 1.544 Mbps (1,544,000 bits per second) or 2.048 Mbps for the European E1 standard. T1 links normally handle 24 voice conversations, but with digital encoding can handle many more voice channels. T1 lines are also used to connect networks across remote distances. T3/E3/J3 – A digital transmission link equivalent to 28 T1 lines. Providing a capacity of 45 Mbps, a T3 link is capable of handling 672 voice conversations. E3 is the European equivalent and J3 is the Japanese equivalent to T3. Time-division multiplexing (TDM) – TDM is a type of digital or analog multiplexing in which two or more signals or bit streams are transferred apparently simultaneously as sub-channels in one communication channel, but physically are taking turns on the channel. Telecommunications Equipment Manufacturer (TEM) – A company that manufacturers telecom equipment for sale to telecommunications carriers. Triple Play – The delivery of voice, video and data over a single broadband connection User Plane – An ATM term referring to the functions which address flow control and error control. The User Plane cuts through all 4 layers of the ATM Protocol Reference Model. 7 Table of Contents VersModule-Eurocard (VME) – A mechanical and electrical bus standard developed in the late 1970’s, with a backplane that runs at 80 Mbps and is most commonly used in commercial, military and industrial applications. Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) – A phone call transmitted over a data network. The “Internet Protocol” is a catch-all for the protocols and technology of encoding a voice call that allow the voice call to be slotted in between data calls on a data network. Virtual Private Network (VPN) – A highly secure network service offering used for accessing a corporate local area network, server or corporate intranet using the resources of the public Internet. VPNs are highly effective for telecommuters, traveling employees, and/or to link branches or regions, vendors, partners, affiliates, etc. to a corporate office/network. Wide Area Network (WAN) – A communications network that covers a wide geographic area, such as a state or country. A WAN typically extends a LAN outside the building, over telephone common carrier lines to link to other LANs in remote locations, such as branch offices or at-home workers and telecommuters. WANs typically run over leased phone lines, but are increasingly also employing the Internet for VPN connectivity. Worldwide Interoperability of Microwave Access (WiMAX) – WiMAX was formed in June 2001 to promote conformance and interoperability of the IEEE 802.16 standard. The WiMAX Forum describes WiMAX as “a standards-based technology enabling the delivery of last mile wireless broadband access as an alternative to cable and DSL.” 8 Table of Contents Mission The Company’s mission is to provide innovative, high-performance connectivity solutions for the telecommunications and enterprise networking markets and to become the leader in providing robust building blocks, highly integrated subsystems and innovative gateway appliances for the converged communications network. The Company’s ongoing strategy is to become the vendor of choice for commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) product solutions as the standards-based COTS market emerges, giving Interphase a powerful foothold within the major tier 1 TEM accounts. During 2006, Interphase made significant progress in establishing itself as a key building block solutions provider to the industry’s largest TEMs and also expanded its relationship with many of the key system integration partners that supply to these TEMs. To achieve these objectives, Interphase is pursuing several key initiatives that include: Building innovative and high quality building blocks and gateway appliances for the delivery of high performance communications infrastructure products The Company’s diverse product portfolio includes versatile communications boards, integrated hardware and software subsystems and gateway appliances delivered to the TEMs for integration into a wide variety of wireline and wireless applications that enable ubiquitous end-to-end multimedia connectivity. The Company has established a premier presence in this marketplace with a product portfolio based on various form factor technologies: PMC, cPCI/cPSB, AdvancedTCA, AdvancedMC, MicroTCA and PCI. The Company has differentiated its product offering by providing hardware products with integrated software to deliver solutions that enable ease-of-integration and help address the critical time-to-market constraints that the Company’s customers face in the highly competitive global markets. The Company has also added AdvancedTCA carrier products to enable the delivery of integrated subsystem solutions that combine the carrier products together with the portfolio of AdvancedMCs that address the needs of specific applications in the telecommunication infrastructure systems. The Company’s offerings have been further enhanced by offering gateway appliances that deliver robust and complete solutions targeting specific inter-working needs in the telecom infrastructure; these appliances integrate Interphase building block products and software into more robust and complete solution offerings. In 2006, the Company was focused on ensuring the successful delivery of its AdvancedTCA and AdvancedMC product portfolio in compliance with customer specifications as defined by our response to their Request for Proposals (RFPs). The Company’s broad product portfolio enabled Interphase to obtain design win success in a number of the customer RFPs. During the year, the Company introduced initial versions of its AdvancedMC and AdvancedTCA products for use by its customers in initial trials and system integration activity. Due to additional changes to the AdvancedTCA and AdvancedMC standards Interphase is in the process of adapting its products to comply with the new standards and deliver generally available product to its customers and the marketplace in 2007. By conducting a comprehensive analysis of the market, Interphase determined that in order to grow revenues, it must participate in supplying solutions to the user plane (or “bearer plane”) segment of the 9 Table of Contents market, which management believes represents a much larger opportunity than the Company’s initial target market segment based primarily on signaling. During 2006, the Company focused a major effort in defining and delivering multiple products across different form factors to address user plane connectivity and interworking needs. These include AdvancedMC and PCI-e product solutions to enable interworking of T1/E1 and channelized OC-3/STM-1 solutions to packet data and ATM to IP interworking solutions. As the telecommunications network transitions from a circuit switched-based network to a packet, or IP, switched network, securing the transmission of information transported across the Internet has become very critical. Interphase has continued to build upon its successful security product portfolio in the PMC and PCI form-factors and is in the process of transitioning these same capabilities into AdvancedMC solutions for use with AdvancedTCA and MicroTCA platforms. In addition, Interphase has identified a key emerging opportunity for packet processing solutions that enable multi-gigabit and 10 gigabit line rate termination, inspection, classification, processing and switching of Ethernet and IP packet data. These packet processing modules and blades are emerging as essential building blocks for a wide range of applications including security processing, deep packet inspection and classification of user traffic and data, billing applications, etc. These packet data modules are also finding use in the aggregation of multiple user data at the access into the core network infrastructure, as well as the delivery of multi-media content to multiple users from the core of the network. The Interphase professional services group continues to provide the ability to customize and tailor the Company’s standards-based product offerings to the specific and unique needs of its customers’ application solutions. In addition, the services group has played a key role in the interoperability testing of Interphase products together with partner single board computer carriers, Digital Signaling Processing blades and AdvancedTCA and MicroTCA platforms. With a high performance and high quality product portfolio, ease of integration, highly capable development, post-development support and professional services for customization and integration, Interphase has established itself as a “trusted partner” to its global TEM customer base delivering cost-effective and expedient time-to-market solutions that enable its customers to deliver advanced communications infrastructure solutions. Delivering advanced slot-optimization and security products for enterprise class applications As the enterprise server market has advanced to deliver high performance computing solutions, high throughput networking adaptor and security products have become essential to deliver end application performance needs. Advances in the PCI interconnect technology to higher speeds (PCI-x) and serial connectivity (PCI-e) has enabled server solutions to meet ever-increasing connectivity and bandwidth requirements. During 2006, Interphase completed successful delivery and integration of its PCI-x and PCI-e based 4 port Gigabit Ethernet adaptor products. In addition, the Company also introduced its 6 port Slot-Optimizer Gigabit Ethernet adapter which also can be integrated with a security co-processor solution. The Company also enhanced its network security product portfolio with the delivery of advanced security adaptor products for integration into diverse applications such as firewalls and VPN security platforms. 10 Table of Contents Delivering a comprehensive environment-friendly product portfolio The Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (RoHS) prohibits new electrical and electronic equipment from being placed on the European market after July 1, 2006, if they contain higher than specified levels of environmentally harmful elements such as lead. Although initiated by the European Union, similar directives are also being adopted in various other countries, primarily in the Asia/Pacific region. Interphase successfully completed the transformation of its product portfolio to RoHS compliance and in many cases was one of the first suppliers to deliver products to its TEM customers. Interphase design and manufacturing teams worked closely together to ensure high quality product delivery earning acclaim from our customers world-wide. Delivering superior customer service Throughout the Company’s 30-year history, Interphase has established strong relationships with top-tier global suppliers of enterprise computer and telecommunications equipment. With a vertically integrated account perspective, Interphase provides flexibility, timely response and other customized account service features. Further, the Company’s technical support is staffed by subject-matter experts for both telecom and enterprise products, allowing Interphase to deliver superior pre- and post-sales support and services. Establishing key strategic alliances and partnerships Interphase products are utilized by customers in conjunction with other companies’ products to enable the delivery of leading-edge network solutions. By delivering standards-compliant, interoperable products, Interphase helps to ease the integration efforts for our customers. A key to ensuring interoperability is the pre-testing of Interphase products with complementary products from other vendors in the supply chain. In addition, with the emergence of standards-based platforms and products, such as AdvancedTCA, there have been significant changes in the telecommunications industry value chain. This has resulted in a rise in importance of systems integrators who have taken on a number of tasks which were previously performed in-house by the TEMs. Interphase has recognized this trend and focused its sales and marketing efforts to establish strategic relationships with many of the component and systems integration vendors in the industry supply chain. The benefits of these alliances include exposure to new customer opportunities, additional higher value-add opportunities at existing customers and the increased ability to win competitive bids by emerging as the “I/O vendor of choice” where Interphase is the strategic supplier to all bidding parties. These relationships also provide Interphase the opportunity to leverage joint marketing efforts to increase market exposure in areas such as industry trade events, seminars, joint whitepapers, articles, etc. During 2006 we solidified system integrator strategic relationships to help us expand an additional channel for delivery of our products, thus extending our market reach and opportunity. Our announced strategic relationship with the Motorola Embedded Computing Group and alliance agreements with Performance Technologies and Surf have enabled us to address a broad range of customer needs in the marketplace. We are currently engaged with Emerson Network Power (the former Artesyn Technologies 11 Table of Contents Group) to become a key member of their MicroTCA ecosystem alliance and we are in discussion with other ecosystem vendors to establish similar relationships. Enhancing operational efficiencies One of the key motivations for an industry to move to standards-based products is the ability to reduce overall system costs and re-use these products across multiple applications to maximize flexibility. The move to AdvancedTCA standards in the telecommunications industry is driven by the same needs for cost reduction and supply chain optimization. The emergence of low-cost Asian product manufacturers has increased the competitive landscape and the need for highly cost-effective solutions in the marketplace. For Interphase, these trends are expected to result in a compressing of product profit margins and will, in turn, dictate the need for the Company to increase product delivery and manufacturing efficiencies. During 2006 the Interphase team has continued to execute successfully after the streamlining of the organization at the end of 2005. The Company has judiciously invested into the R&D structure as required to ensure successful delivery to product commitments. The Company has carefully expanded in other areas to address our growth and revenue objectives. Products Interphase offers a comprehensive portfolio of products bundled with optimized software packages to address applications in the telecommunications and enterprise networking markets. These products span multiple form factors including PCI, PCI-x, PCI-e, PMC, cPCI, cPSB, AdvancedTCA and AdvancedMC. Building Block Component Products The building block products constitute the fundamental solutions offered by Interphase to meet the modularity, flexibility, high-performance and reliability requirements for delivery of advanced telecommunications and enterprise services. The modular design of these products enables their use across a wide variety of applications, creating cost-effective and high re-use value to customers. Building block products manufactured by Interphase include: integrated communications controllers, ATM network interface cards, security accelerator cards and Gigabit Ethernet network interface cards. Integrated Communications Controllers The integrated communications controller product family is designed to enable different types of physical connections within the telecommunications network. These products fall into the subcategories of T1/E1/J1 controllers and high-density interface controllers. T1/E1/J1 Controllers This flagship product line consists of multiple solutions designed to support prevalent physical connections in the network. These products typically support the T1 North American format, the E1 European format (adopted by many other countries worldwide, including Asia and Australia) and the J1 (and derived formats) used in Japan. All of these products are offered together with the field-proven Interphase iWare® Software Development Suite. Key products include: 12 Table of Contents iSPAN 4538 – a PMC with two T1/E1/J1 interfaces on the front faceplate and a 10/100 Ethernet port iSPAN 4539/4539F – a PMC with four T1/E1/J1 interfaces via front or rear access, and a 10/100 Ethernet interface on the front iSPAN 5539F – a PCI card with four T1/E1/J1 interfaces for use in server systems iSPAN 1635 – a cPSB card with eight T1/E1/J1 interfaces via front or rear access iSPAN 3639 – an AdvancedMC with 4 or 8 T1/E1/J1 interfaces via front and rear access with support for both signaling and media termination iSPAN 5639 – a PCI-e 4 or 8 port T1/E1/J1 interface card for use in server systems with PCI-e host connectivity Key network elements and applications enabled include: • Radio Network Controller (RNC) • Mobile Switching Center (MSC) • Short Message Service Center (SMSC) • Home Location Register/Home Subscriber Subsystem (HLR/HSS) • Signaling Gateway • Softswitch • Media Gateway • Service Control Point • Media Servers • IP-PBX High Density Interface Controllers These products enable high bandwidth connections used in many different telecommunications network applications. These products support the North American DS-3, OC-3 and OC-12 connection formats and STM-1 and STM-4 European connection formats, both of which are used globally. Key products include: iSPAN 4531/4531P – a PMC that provides reliable, high performance ATM communications over DS3 connections iSPAN 4532 – an intelligent, high-performance single-port OC-3/STM-1 ATM PMC with a 10/100 Ethernet interface. This product is offered with the field-proven Interphase iWare® Software Development Suite. iSPAN 4532Q – four-port OC-3/STM-1 passive PMCs with support for a variety of fiber optic connection types 13 Table of Contents iSPAN 4533P – a single-port OC-12/STM-4 passive interface PCM with support for a variety of fiber optic connection types Key network elements and applications enabled include: • Radio Network Controller (RNC) • Mobile Switching Center (MSC) • DSL Access Multiplexers • Cable Modem Termination System (CMTS) ATM Network Interface Cards The ATM network interface cards are used in many broadband networking elements for processing information transported on ATM networks. Key products include: iSPAN 4575/4576 – a single or dual-port OC-3/STM-1 PMC for ATM processing iSPAN 5575/5576 PCI ATM Communications Interface Card – a single or dual-port OC-3/STM-1 PCI card for ATM processing iSPAN 3676 AdvancedMC ATM communications Interface Card – an OC-3/STM-1 single or dual-port card for ATM processing Key network elements and applications enabled include: • Serving GPRS Service Node (SGSN) • Gateway GPRS Service Node (GGSN) • Operations, Administration and Management devices used for back-end services in the telecommunications infrastructure Security Acceleration Cards The Interphase Security product portfolio provides encryption and decryption capabilities enabling customers to securely operate enterprise or telecommunications networks. Key products include: 45NS – a PMC designed to accelerate multiple security protocols, including IPSec, for use in encryption and decryption of information 5585 – PCI card based on the HiFn 8155 security processor designed to accelerate multiple security protocols, including IPSec, for use in encryption and decryption of information 5556 – low-end PCI cards based on the HiFn 7956 security co-processor designed to accelerate multiple security protocols, including IPSec, for use in encryption and decryption of information Key network elements and applications enabled include: • Firewall and VPN solutions • On Line Transaction Processing (OLTP) • Network Management solutions 14 Table of Contents Gigabit Ethernet Network Interface Cards Interphase offers a broad portfolio of multi-port Gigabit Ethernet solutions that provide enhanced Ethernet connectivity for a variety of telecommunications and enterprise networking solutions. Key products include: 454G SlotOptimizer™ – a quad-port PMC Ethernet card for high-density Ethernet connectivity 364G SlotOptimizer™ – a quad-port AdvancedMC Ethernet card for high-density Ethernet connectivity 554GB SlotOptimizer – a quad-port PCI Ethernet card with PCI-x for high-density Ethernet connectivity 564GB SlotOptimizer – a quad-port PCI-e Ethernet card for high-density Ethernet connections Key network elements and applications enabled include: • High performance computing servers for engineering applications • Serving GPRS Service Node (SGSN) • Softswitches Gateway Appliance Solutions Interphase gateway appliances provide targeted high performance and easy-to-manage solutions to address the needs of interworking in the emerging transition from PSTN and ATM-based legacy networks to all-IP based networks. These appliances integrate Interphase building block products and software into more robust and complete solution offerings. Key products include: iNAV® 9200 Broadband Access Gateway – an advanced, price/performance-maximized solution for applications requiring the translation of IP to/from ATM and is in the process of being enhanced to support TDM to RTP inter-working iNAV 9400 Signaling Gateway – provides seamless translation of SS7 to/from SIGTRAN for use in the transition of PSTN to IP networks. New Product Development There are a number of major market trends in the telecom market that will affect Interphase solution offerings. Interphase must rapidly respond to these market trends with expansions in its product portfolio and offerings. Of the major market trends, perhaps the most prominent is the move from circuit switched-based networks to IP/Ethernet packet-based networks. This move has a profound impact on the telecom 15 Table of Contents markets served by Interphase. The industry’s embrace of IP/Ethernet-based networks is primarily fueled by the following factors: • Ethernet-based IP networks offer an inexpensive, ubiquitous broadband packet-based delivery approach for carriers. The simplicity of IP-based Ethernet networks are expected to shorten the period of new service deployment and time to revenue. • The second promise of this network architecture is greatly reduced cost of purchasing (CAPEX), provisioning and maintaining their networks (OPEX). • Another significant trend in the COTS market is the move to AdvancedTCA platforms. Sponsored primarily by Intel, a number of AdvancedTCA suppliers have emerged to address the ever-growing needs of TEMs. TEMs have been reducing their internal development infrastructure over the past several years and are now more dependent on outsourced solutions to meet their product development needs. • The IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) standard architecture is enabled by a high bandwidth IP/Ethernet backbone, and promises to offer multimedia service delivery to end user devices (wireless or wireline). • With the transition to the packet infrastructure modules that provide multi-gigabit Ethernet and 10 gigabit Ethernet line rate switching, processing and classification of packet data are becoming very important for a wide range of applications including secure data transport, microbilling and high speed multi-media content delivery. Interphase is focused on developing high performance, highly reliable COTS products, based on AdvancedTCA, AdvancedMC, MicroTCA and PCI-e standards, and appliances, which enable its customers to deliver cost-effective and expedient time-to-market solutions that address the above market trends. Telecom Segment Initiatives In the telecommunications market, Interphase continues to expand its product portfolio with the inclusion of new user plane targeted products. These products are designed to address the needs of high bandwidth applications for 3G wireless networks, VoIP networks, broadband access networks and the advanced services capabilities promised by the emerging IMS network architecture. AdvancedTCA and MicroTCA AdvancedTCA standards define a highly reliable, manageable, high-performance and flexible platform architecture that enables the delivery of high throughput network solutions. Hence, TEMs have embraced AdvancedTCA as a common platform framework to deliver systems solutions to meet the needs of 3G wireless, IMS and VoIP network deployments. The field-replaceable AdvancedMC module standards introduce additional flexibility for the delivery of application-specific functions to enhance a common platform vision and architecture. 16 Table of Contents Furthermore, the MicroTCA standards define a smaller platform that uses AdvancedMCs. MicroTCA can be used to deliver complete network elements such as Base Stations, NodeBs, DSL access multiplexers, WiMAX base stations and IP-PBXs. During 2006, Interphase successfully initiated and delivered multiple AdvancedTCA and AdvancedMC products for early customer trials and system integration. The Interphase AdvancedTCA and AdvancedMC product portfolio under development includes: • iSPAN 3639 – an AdvancedMC with 4 or 8 T1/E1/J1 interfaces via front and rear access with support for both signaling and media termination • 364G – an AdvancedMC with 4 Gigabit Ethernet interfaces • iSPAN 3632 – an AdvancedMC with 4 OC-3/STM-1 channelized interfaces via front and rear access for high density media termination and conversion of media steams into I-TDM flows with support for sub-rate media channel processing • iSPAN 3650 – an AdvancedMC with 4 OC-3/STM-1 unchannelized interfaces via front and rear access for termination of ATM packets and interworking to IP • iSPAN 3651 – an AdvancedMC with 4 OC-3/STM-1 channelized interfaces via front and rear access with support for channelized operation to support IMA and MLPPP applications • iSPAN 36WP – an AdvancedMC with 4 Gigabit Ethernet ports via front access for high speed packet processing and switching • iSPAN 36CA – an AdvancedMC with 4 gigabit Ethernet interfaces via front access for high performance line rate packet processing and packet switching solutions • iNAV 31K – an AdvancedTCA carrier with support for up to 4 mid-size or full size AdvancedMC’s with 10 Gigabit fabric interface support for the integration and delivery of high-capacity and high performance subsystem solutions • iNAV 74K – a quad processor dual-core Freescale 8641D based processor blade for high performance embedded packet and control processing Interphase expects to complete general availability delivery of many of these products during 2007 for successful integration into next generation advanced network platforms. All of the AdvancedMC solutions are also fully reusable in the emerging MicroTCA based platform architectures being adopted for network edge and access solutions. During 2007, Interphase expects to see rapid adoption of the MicroTCA platform architecture for a wide variety of applications including WiMax base station, broadband access solutions, ASN Gateway, etc. Beyond AdvancedTCA and MicroTCA, AdvancedMCs are also attracting the attention of TEM customers as a valuable building block to avail of the latest technology in their proprietary platforms. Many of the TEMs are looking at adding AdvancedMC carrier blades to their proprietary systems enabling them to reuse the AdvancedMC technology available in the market and refresh/upgrade the functionality of their proprietary systems. Interphase, with its broad AdvancedMC product portfolio, is well positioned to take advantage of these opportunities. In addition, blade server vendors such as IBM have also introduced AdvancedMC carriers in their telecommunications blade server platforms to take advantage of the diverse I/O processing capabilities offered by the AdvancedMC form-factor. Interphase is working closely with these blade server manufacturers to ensure interoperability and integration of its 17 Table of Contents AdvancedMCs to offer customers additional choice as they decide on the specific platform form-factor for the end network applications. PCI Rack Mounted Server Solutions Telecommunications grade rack mount server solutions from server manufacturers such as IBM, Sun and HP continue to be an important platform of choice for delivery of operation, administration, management and provisioning applications as well as for network elements needing large databases and storage. The Company is therefore also engaged in delivering PCI/PCI-e based modules that take advantage of the equivalent AdvancedMC module designs to meet the I/O needs of these platforms. Key products currently close to general availability include the iSPAN 5639 4/8 port T1/E1/J1 communications controller module as well as the iSPAN 5639E 4/8 port T1/E1/J1 media interface module. Appliance Solutions Interphase continues to expand and innovate with its appliance solutions, by delivering easy to use and easy to manage devices that address key transition requirements in the network infrastructure. The iNAV 9200 broadband gateway solution was deployed very successfully during 2006 for the delivery of ATM to IP interworking in a number of broadband access applications. During the year, Interphase began the enhancement of this product to support TDM to RTP inter-working to provide a Media Interface Converter front end for Media Server applications in the network. During the year, Interphase also expanded its Signaling Gateway offering to support the latest generation of Sun SPARCTM processor based telecomm servers supporting the Solaris 10 operating system. In addition, the Company initiated an effort to port the solution to Intel processor based AdvancedTCA blades with support for the Linux operating system. Enterprise Networking Initiatives In the enterprise networking market, Interphase has focused on delivery of specialized SlotOptimizer solutions for servers used in high performance computing, scientific lab environments and advanced enterprise applications. During the year, the Company completed successful qualification of its PCI-e based SlotOptimizer Gigabit Ethernet card. In addition, the Company completed successful integration of its security line of PCI products into a key Tier 1 VPN and Firewall appliance. The Company is working on additional SlotOptimizer cards supporting up to 6 Gigabit Ethernet ports together with an onboard security co-processor solution. Industry Standards Participation Throughout its history, Interphase has been active in the formulation of industry standards sanctioned by groups such as PICMG and the AdvancedTCA subcommittee in particular. The Company has actively participated in the ATCA and AdvancedMC subcommittees and has worked with other key industry participants to help drive the standardization. In addition, Interphase has been an active participant in interoperability events to ensure that the Company’s products are standards compliant as well as fully interoperable with the ATCA carrier board solutions from other vendors to ensure ease of integration for its customers. 18 Table of Contents During the year, Interphase was honored to be invited to join the SCOPE alliance as a “Contributor” member. SCOPE is an industry alliance committed to accelerating the deployment of carrier grade base platforms for service provider applications. Its mission is to help, enable and promote the availability of open carrier grade base platforms based on commercial off–the-shelf (COTS) hardware / software and free open source software (FOSS) building blocks, and to promote interoperability to better serve Service Providers and consumers. All the major TEMs are sponsor members of the SCOPE alliance organization. Interphase also has joined the Communications Platform Trade Association (CP-TA) as a contributor member. The CP-TA is an association of communications platform and building block providers dedicated to accelerate the adoption of PICMG governed, open specification based communications platforms through interoperability certification. With industry collaboration, the CP-TA plans to drive a mainstream market for open industry standards based communications platforms by certifying interoperable building blocks. Marketing and Customers The Company’s products are sold to network equipment OEMs for inclusion in embedded systems designed for use in carrier networks and enterprise data networks. During the year, the Company continued to expand its customer base by adding new customers and customer projects across the globe, diversifying both our revenue and customer base. During 2006, sales to Lucent Technologies, Motorola, Hewlett Packard and Alcatel accounted for $8.0 million or 24%, $7.5 million or 22%, $3.4 million or 10%, and $3.3 million or 10% of the Company’s consolidated revenues, respectively. During 2005, sales to Lucent Technologies, Hewlett Packard and Motorola accounted for $7.9 million or 26%, $6.0 million or 19% and $4.2 million or 14% of the Company’s consolidated revenues, respectively. During 2004, sales to Lucent Technologies and Hewlett Packard accounted for $12.6 million or 36% and $9.6 million or 27% of the Company’s consolidated revenues, respectively. No other customers accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s consolidated revenues in the periods presented. The Company markets its products through its direct sales force, manufacturers’ representatives and value-added distribution partners. In addition to the Company’s headquarters in Plano, Texas; the Company has sales offices located in or near Los Angeles, California; Minneapolis, Minnesota; Newark, New Jersey; Amsterdam, Holland; Helsinki, Finland; Sydney, Australia; and Paris, France. The Company’s direct sales force markets products directly to key customers and supports manufacturers’ representatives and the distribution channel. In addition, the Company has entered into distribution agreements with key international distributors located in countries in North America, Asia and Europe. See Note 14 of the accompanying Notes to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Company’s geographic assets and revenues. Manufacturing and Supplies Manufacturing operations are currently conducted at the Company’s manufacturing facility located in Carrollton, Texas. The Company’s products consist primarily of various integrated circuits, other electronic components and firmware assembled onto an internally designed printed circuit board. 19 Table of Contents The Company uses internally designed products utilizing application specific integrated circuits (ASIC), some of which are sole-sourced, on some of its products, as well as standard off-the-shelf items presently available from two or more suppliers. Historically, the Company has not experienced any significant problems in maintaining an adequate supply of these parts sufficient to satisfy customer demand. The Company believes that it has good relations with its vendors. The Company generally does not manufacture products to stock finished goods inventory, as substantially all of the Company’s production is dedicated to specific customer purchase orders. As a result, the Company has limited requirements to maintain significant finished goods inventories. Intellectual Property and Patents While the Company believes that its success is ultimately dependent upon the innovative skills of its personnel and its ability to anticipate technological changes, its ability to compete successfully will depend, in part, upon its ability to protect proprietary technology contained in its products. The Company does not currently hold any patents relative to its current product lines. Instead, the Company relies upon a combination of trade secret, copyright and trademark laws and contractual restrictions to establish and protect proprietary rights in its products. The development of alternative, proprietary and other technologies by third parties could adversely affect the competitiveness of the Company’s products. Further, the laws of some countries do not provide the same degree of protection of the Company’s proprietary information, as do the laws of the United States. Finally, the Company’s adherence to industry-wide technical standards and specifications may limit the Company’s opportunities to provide proprietary product features capable of protection. The Company is also subject to the risk of litigation alleging infringement of third party intellectual property rights. Infringement claims could require the Company to expend significant time and money in litigation, paying damages, developing non-infringing technology or acquiring licenses to the technology which is the subject of asserted infringement. The Company has entered into several nonexclusive software licensing agreements that allow the Company to incorporate third-party software into its product line thereby increasing its functionality, performance and interoperability. Employees At December 31, 2006, the Company had 132 full-time employees, of which 37 were engaged in manufacturing and quality assurance, 57 in research and development, 17 in sales, sales support, customer service and marketing and 21 in general management and administration. The Company’s success to date has been significantly dependent on the contributions of a number of its key technical and management employees. The loss of the services of one or more of these key employees could have a material adverse effect on the Company. In addition, the Company believes that its future success will depend, in large part, upon its ability to attract and retain highly skilled and motivated technical, managerial, sales and marketing personnel. Competition for such personnel is significant. 20 Table of Contents None of the Company’s employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement and there have been no work stoppages. The Company considers its relationship with its employees to be good. Competition The Company’s competition includes vendors specifically dedicated to the telecommunication and enterprise I/O product markets. Most of the Company’s major TEM customers have chosen to outsource the design, manufacture and software integration of certain communications controllers and protocol processing, and the recent market conditions and reduction in resources have forced some network equipment providers to utilize off-the-shelf products for their product design. Increased competition and commoditization of network interface technologies could result in price reductions, reduced margins and loss of market share. Item 1A. Risk Factors. The marketing and sale of our products involve lengthy sales cycles. This and other factors make business forecasting extremely difficult and can lead to significant fluctuations in period-to-period results. We have experienced fluctuations in our period-to-period revenue and operating results in the past and may experience fluctuations in the future. Our sales on both an annual and a quarterly basis can fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. We may have difficulty predicting the volume and timing of orders for products, and delays in closing orders can cause our operating results to fall short of anticipated levels for any period. Delays by our OEM customers in producing products that incorporate our products could also cause operating results to fall short of anticipated levels. Other factors that may particularly contribute to fluctuations in our revenue and operating results include success in achieving design wins, the market acceptance of the OEM products that incorporate our products, the rate of adoption of new products, competition from new technologies and other companies, and the variability of the life cycles of our customers’ products. Because fluctuations can happen, we believe that comparisons of the results of our operations for preceding quarters are not necessarily predictive of future quarters and that investors should not rely on the results for any one quarter as an indication of how Interphase will perform in the future. Investors should also understand that, if the revenue or operating results for any quarter are less than the level expected by securities analysts or the market in general, the market price of our common stock could immediately and significantly decline. The telecommunications signaling and networking business is characterized by rapid technological change and frequent introduction of new products. The market for our products is characterized by rapid technological change and frequent introduction of products based on new technologies. As these products are introduced, the industry standards change. Additionally, the overall telecommunications and networking industry is volatile as the effects of new technologies, new standards, new products and short life cycles contribute to changes in the industry and the performance of industry participants. Future revenue will depend upon our ability to anticipate technological change and to develop and introduce enhanced products of our own on a timely basis that comply with new industry standards. New product introductions, or the delays thereof, could contribute to 21 Table of Contents quarterly fluctuations in operating results as orders for new products commence and orders for existing products decline. Moreover, significant delays can occur between a product introduction and commencement of volume production. A typical time period from design-in of one of our products to actual production is 18 to 30 months. The inability to develop and manufacture new products in a timely manner, the existence of reliability, quality or availability problems in our products or their component parts, or the failure to achieve market acceptance for our products could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. We operate in an intensely competitive marketplace and many of our competitors have greater resources than we do. The telecommunications, signaling and networking business is extremely competitive, and we face competition from a number of established and emerging companies both public and private. Our principal competitors have established brand name recognition and market positions and have substantially greater financial resources to deploy on promotion, advertising and research and product development. In addition, as we broaden our product offerings, we may face competition from new competitors. Companies in related markets could offer products with functionality similar or superior to our product offerings. Increased competition could result in significant pricing pressures. These pricing pressures could result in significantly lower average selling prices for our products. We may not be able to offset the effects of any price reductions with an increase in the number of customers, cost reductions or otherwise. We expect that competition will increase as a result of industry consolidations and alliances, as well as the potential emergence of new competitors. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully with existing or new competitors or that competitive pressures will not have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. The loss of one or more key customers or reduced spending by customers could significantly impact our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. While we enjoy very good relationships with our customers, there can be no assurance that our principal customers will continue to purchase products from us at the current levels. Orders from our customers are affected by factors such as new product introductions, product life cycles, inventory levels, manufacturing strategies, contract awards, competitive conditions and general economic conditions. Customers typically do not enter into long-term volume purchase contracts with us, and customers have certain rights to extend or delay the shipment of their orders. The loss of one or more of our major customers, or the reduction, delay or cancellation of orders or a delay in shipment of products to such customers could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Schedule delays, cancellations of programs and changes in customer markets can delay or prevent a design win from reaching the production phase, which could negatively impact our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. A design win occurs when a customer or prospective customer notifies us that our product has been selected to be integrated with their product. Ordinarily, there are a number of steps between the design win and when customers initiate production shipments. Design wins reach production volumes at varying rates, typically beginning approximately 18 to 30 months after the design win occurs. A variety of risks such as schedule delays, cancellations of programs and changes in customer markets can delay or prevent 22 Table of Contents the design win from reaching the production phase. The customer’s failure to bring their product to the production phase could have an adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Design defects, errors or problems in our products could harm our reputation, revenue and profitability. If we deliver products with errors, defects or problems, our credibility and the market acceptance and sales of our products could be harmed. Further, if our products contain errors, defects and problems, then we may be required to expend significant capital and resources to alleviate such problems. Defects could also lead to product liability as a result of product liability lawsuits against us or our customers. We have agreed to indemnify our customers in some circumstances against liability from defects in our products. While no such litigation currently exists, product liability litigation arising from errors, defects or problems, even if it resulted in an outcome favorable to us, would be time consuming and costly to defend. Existing or future laws or unfavorable judicial decisions could negate any limitation of liability provisions that are included in our license agreements. A successful product liability claim could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We maintain insurance coverage for product liability claims. Although we believe this coverage is adequate, we are not assured that coverage under insurance policies will be adequate to cover specific product liability claims made against us. In addition, product liability insurance could become more expensive and difficult to maintain and may not be available in the future on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The amount and scope of any insurance coverage may be inadequate if a product liability claim is successfully asserted against us. If our third party suppliers fail to produce quality products or parts in a timely manner, we may not be able to meet our customers’ demands. Certain components used in our products are currently available from one or a limited number of sources. There can be no assurance that future supplies will be adequate for our needs or will be available with acceptable prices and terms. Inability in the future to obtain sufficient limited-source components, or to develop alternative sources, could result in delays in product introduction or shipments, and increased component prices could negatively affect gross margins, either of which could have a material adverse effect on operating results, financial condition and cash flows. We are dependent on one manufacturing facility and if there is an interruption in production we may not be able to deliver products on a timely basis. We manufacture our products at our Carrollton, Texas facility, and have established alternative manufacturing capabilities through a third party in the event of a disaster in the current facility. Even though we have been successful in establishing an alternative third-party contract manufacturer, there can be no assurance that we would be able to retain their services at the same costs that we currently enjoy. In the event of an interruption in production, we may not be able to deliver products on a timely basis, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and operating results. Although we currently have business interruption insurance and a disaster recovery plan to minimize the effect of the interruption, no assurances can be given that such insurance or recovery plan will adequately cover lost business as a result of such an interruption. 23 Table of Contents If we fail to accurately forecast demand for our products, we would be exposed to risk associated with inventory. We must identify the right product mix and maintain sufficient inventory on hand to meet customer orders. Failure to do so could adversely affect our sales and earnings. However, if circumstances change there could be a material impact on the net realizable value of inventory which could adversely affect our results. We may be unable to effectively protect our proprietary technology, which would negatively affect our ability to compete. Our success depends partly upon certain proprietary technologies developed within our products. To date, we have relied principally upon trademark, copyright and trade secret laws to protect our proprietary technologies. We generally enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our customers, distributors and potential customers, which limit access to and distribution of the source code to our software and other proprietary information. Our employees are subject to our employment policy regarding confidentiality. There can be no assurance that the steps taken by us in this regard will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technologies or to provide an effective remedy in the event of a misappropriation by others. Although we believe that our products do not infringe on the proprietary rights of third parties, there can be no assurance that infringement claims will not be asserted, possibly resulting in costly litigation in which we may not ultimately prevail. Adverse determinations in such litigation could result in the loss of proprietary rights, subject us to significant liabilities, require that we seek licenses from third parties or prevent us from manufacturing or selling our products, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. It may be necessary to obtain technology licenses from others due to the large number of patents in the computer networking industry and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents and new standards or to obtain important new technology. There can be no assurance that these third party technology licenses will be available on commercially reasonable terms. The loss of or inability to obtain any of these technology licenses could result in delays or reductions in product shipments. Such delays or reductions in product shipments could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. We depend on key personnel to manage our business effectively. Our success depends on the continued contributions of our personnel and on our ability to attract and retain skilled employees. Changes in personnel could adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. We have substantial international activities, which expose us to additional business risks including political, economic and currency risks. We derive approximately 66% of our revenues from sales outside of North America. Economic and political conditions in some of these markets as well as different legal, tax, accounting and other 24 Table of Contents regulatory requirements may adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. We are exposed to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates because we conduct business on a global basis and in some cases in foreign currencies. Our operations in France are measured in the local currency and converted into U.S. Dollars based on published exchange rates for the periods reported and are therefore subject to risk of exchange rate fluctuations (See Item 7A – Foreign Currency Risk). We may require additional working capital to fund operations and expand our business. We believe our current financial resources will be sufficient to meet the present working capital and capital expenditure requirements for the next twelve months. However, we may need to raise additional capital before this period ends to further: • fund research and development of new products beyond what is expected in 2007; • expand product and service offerings beyond what is contemplated in 2007 if unforeseen opportunities arise; or • respond to unforeseen competitive pressures. Our future liquidity and capital requirements will depend upon numerous factors, including the success of the existing and new product and service offerings and potentially competing technological and market developments. However, any projections of future cash flows are subject to substantial uncertainty. From time to time, we expect to evaluate the acquisition of, or investment in businesses and technologies that complement our current operations. If current cash, marketable securities, lines of credit and cash generated from operations are insufficient to satisfy the liquidity requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity securities, issue debt securities or increase our working capital line of credit. The sale of additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to shareholders. There can be no assurance that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable, if at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, our ability to develop or enhance products and services, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures would be limited. This limitation could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We have incurred significant losses. Although we posted net income of approximately $2.1 million and $1.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2004, respectively, we posted a net loss of approximately $2.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 and we incurred net losses of approximately $769,000 and $8.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. In order to achieve profitability consistently, we will need to generate higher revenues while containing costs and operating expenses. We cannot be certain that our revenues will grow or that we will generate sufficient revenues to achieve and maintain profitability on a long-term, sustained basis. If we fail to achieve and maintain profitability, then the market price of our common stock will likely be negatively impacted. We may experience significant period-to-period quarterly and annual fluctuations in our revenue and operating results, which may result in volatility in our stock price. The trading price of our common stock is subject to wide fluctuations in response to quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in operating results, general conditions in the telecommunications and networking industry 25 Table of Contents and other events or factors. In addition, stock markets have experienced extreme price and trading volume volatility in recent years. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market price of the securities of many high technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our common stock has historically had relatively small trading volumes. As a result, small transactions in common stock can have a disproportionately large impact on the quoted price of the common stock. 2008 will be the first year that our internal controls over financial reporting will be audited by our independent registered public accounting firm in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 unless we become an accelerated filer in 2007. The year ending December 31, 2007, will be the first year of management assessment of our internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Section 404”). The year ending December 31, 2008, will be the first year that our internal controls over financial reporting will be audited by our independent registered public accounting firm in accordance with Section 404. However, if we become an accelerated filer in 2007 then the year ending December 31, 2007 will be the first year that our internal controls over financial reporting will be audited in accordance with Section 404. As a result of the ongoing interpretation of new guidance issued by the standards-setting community and the audit testing yet to be completed, our internal controls over financial reporting may include an unidentified material weakness which would result in receiving an adverse opinion on internal controls over financial reporting from our independent registered public accounting firm. This could result in significant additional expenditures responding to the Section 404 internal control audit, heightened regulatory scrutiny and potentially an adverse effect to the price of the common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 