Item 1A. Risk Factors. The continued issues in global credit and financial markets could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. 10 The global credit and financial markets have been experiencing significant disruptions for several years now, including diminished liquidity and credit availability. There can be no assurance that there will not be further deterioration in credit and financial markets. These economic uncertainties affect businesses such as ours in a number of ways, making it difficult to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities. The continued tightening of credit in financial markets may lead consumers and businesses to postpone spending, which may cause our customers to decrease or delay their existing and future orders with us. In addition, financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers, distributors, or customers could result in product delays, increased accounts receivable defaults and inventory challenges. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current and potential future disruptions in the credit and financial markets and adverse global economic conditions. There can be no assurance that if the current uncertain economic conditions continue, it will not have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. The marketing and sale of our products involve lengthy sales cycles. This and other factors make business forecasting extremely difficult and can lead to significant fluctuations in period-to-period results. We have experienced fluctuations in our period-to-period revenue and operating results in the past and may experience fluctuations in the future. Our sales, on both an annual and a quarterly basis, can fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. We may have difficulty predicting the volume and timing of orders for products, and delays in closing orders can cause our operating results to fall short of anticipated levels for any period. Delays by our OEM customers in producing products that incorporate our products could also cause operating results to fall short of anticipated levels. Other factors that may particularly contribute to fluctuations in our revenue and operating results include success in achieving design wins, the market acceptance of the OEM products that incorporate our products, the rate of adoption of new products, competition from new technologies and other companies, and the variability of the life cycles of our customers’ products. Because fluctuations can happen, we believe that comparisons of the results of our operations for preceding quarters are not necessarily predictive of future quarters and that investors should not rely on the results for any one quarter as an indication of how Interphase will perform in the future. Investors should also understand that, if the revenue or operating results for any quarter are less than the level expected by securities analysts or the market in general, the market price of our common stock could immediately and significantly decline. The telecommunications signaling and networking business is characterized by rapid technological change and frequent introduction of new products. The market for our products is characterized by rapid technological change and frequent introduction of products based on new technologies. As these products are introduced, the industry standards change. Additionally, the overall telecommunications and networking industry is volatile, as the effects of new technologies, new standards, new products and short life cycles contribute to changes in the industry and the performance of industry participants. Future revenue will depend upon our ability to anticipate technological change and to develop and introduce enhanced products of our own on a timely basis that comply with new industry standards. New product introductions, or the delays thereof, could contribute to quarterly fluctuations in operating results as orders for new products commence and orders for existing products decline. Moreover, significant delays can occur between a product introduction and 11 commencement of volume production. A typical time period from design-win of one of our products to actual production is 18 to 30 months. This timing has varied significantly during times of mergers, economic instability, and technology changes affecting platform architectures. Our inability to develop and manufacture new products in a timely manner, the existence of reliability, quality or availability problems in our products or their component parts, or the failure to achieve market acceptance for our products could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Litigation against us could require significant time of our management, be costly to defend against and/or negatively impact our operating results. As noted under Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” below, Twenty-five former employees (“Plaintiffs”) of Interphase SAS, a subsidiary of Interphase Corporation, have brought suit in France against Interphase SAS alleging various causes of action and rights to damages relating to claims of wrongful dismissal of employment, specific French employment indemnities, general economic losses, and contractual claims relating specifically to their employment relationship and contracts entered into between the individual and Interphase SAS. The various claims and assertions arise from and relate to the Plaintiffs’ release from employment as part of the restructuring actions taken during the third quarter of 2010. See Note 7 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information regarding the restructuring plan. The statement of claim is for an aggregate payment of approximately $3.9 million related to these claims. The Company believes that the Plaintiffs’ claims are without merit and plans to vigorously defend itself in this lawsuit. Although the Company does not believe that the Plaintiffs’ claims have merit, litigation (particularly outside of the United States) is inherently unpredictable, and it is possible that the Company would be required to pay an additional amount to the Plaintiffs. If the required amount was significant, the payment could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition. Further, if this litigation were to continue for an extended time, the Company’s defense of the Plaintiffs’ claims, even if successful, could require the Company to pay significant costs (including fees of counsel) and require time and energy of the Company’s management that could otherwise be spent on the Company’s business, all of which could negatively affect the Company’s financial condition and operations. We operate in an intensely competitive marketplace and many of our competitors have greater resources than we do. The telecommunications, signaling and networking business is extremely competitive, and we face competition from a number of established and emerging companies, both public and private. Our principal competitors have established brand name recognition and market positions and have substantially greater financial resources to deploy on promotion, advertising, research and product development. In addition, as we broaden our product and service offerings, we may face competition from new competitors. Companies in related markets could offer products with functionality similar or superior to our product offerings. Increased competition could result in significant pricing pressures. These pricing pressures could result in significantly lower average selling prices for our products and services. We may not be able to offset the effects of any price reductions with an increase in sales volumes, cost reductions or otherwise. We expect that competition will increase as a result of industry consolidations and alliances, as well as the potential emergence of new competitors. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully with existing or new competitors or that 12 competitive pressures will not have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. The loss of one or more key customers or reduced spending by customers could significantly impact our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. While we enjoy very good relationships with our customers, there can be no assurance that our principal customers will continue to purchase products from us at the current levels. Orders from our customers are affected by factors such as new product introductions, product life cycles, inventory levels, manufacturing strategies, contract awards, competitive conditions and general economic conditions. Customers typically do not enter into long-term volume purchase contracts with us, and customers have certain rights to extend or delay the shipment of their orders. The loss of one or more of our major customers, or the reduction, delay or cancellation of orders or a delay in shipment of products to such customers could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Schedule delays, cancellations of programs and changes in customer markets can delay or prevent a design-win from reaching the production phase, which could negatively impact our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. A design-win occurs when a customer or prospective customer notifies us that our product has been selected to be integrated with their product. Ordinarily, there are a number of steps between the design-win and when customers initiate production shipments. Design-wins reach production volumes at varying rates, typically beginning approximately 18 to 30 months after the design-win occurs. A variety of risks such as schedule delays, customer consolidations, cancellations of programs and changes in customer markets can delay or prevent the design-win from reaching the production phase. The customer’s failure to bring its product (into which our product is designed) to the production phase could have an adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Design defects, errors or problems in our products or services could harm our reputation, revenue and profitability. If we deliver products or services with errors, defects or problems, our credibility and the market acceptance and sales of our products and services could be harmed. Further, if our products or services contain errors, defects or problems, then we may be required to expend significant capital and resources to alleviate such problems. Defects could also lead to liability as a result of product liability lawsuits against us or our customers, tort or warranty claims, increased insurance costs or increased service and warranty costs, any of which could harm our business. We have agreed to indemnify our customers in some circumstances against liability from defects in our products. While no such litigation currently exists, product liability litigation arising from errors, defects or problems, even if it resulted in an outcome favorable to us, would be time consuming and costly to defend. Existing or future laws or unfavorable judicial decisions could negate any limitation-of-liability provisions that are included in our license agreements. A product liability claim, whether or not successful, could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We maintain insurance coverage for product liability claims. Although we believe this coverage is adequate, there can be no assurance that coverage under insurance policies will be adequate to cover 13 specific product liability claims made against us. In addition, product liability insurance could become more expensive and difficult to maintain and may not be available in the future on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The amount and scope of any insurance coverage may be inadequate if a product liability claim is successfully asserted against us. If our third party suppliers fail to produce quality products or parts in a timely manner, we may not be able to meet our customers’ demands. Certain components used in our products are currently available from one or only a limited number of sources. There can be no assurance that future supplies will be adequate for our needs or will be available with acceptable prices and terms. Inability in the future to obtain sufficient limited-source components, or to develop alternative sources, could result in delays in product introduction or shipments, and increased component prices could negatively affect gross margins, either of which could have a material adverse effect on operating results, financial condition and cash flows. We are dependent on one manufacturing facility and if there is an interruption in production we may not be able to deliver products on a timely basis. We manufacture our products at our Carrollton, Texas facility, and have established alternative manufacturing capabilities through a third party in the event of a disaster in the current facility. Even though we have been successful in establishing an alternative third-party contract manufacturer, there can be no assurance that we would be able to retain its services at the same costs that we currently enjoy. In the event of an interruption in production, we may not be able to deliver products on a timely basis, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and operating results. Although we currently have business interruption insurance and a disaster recovery plan to mitigate the effect of an interruption, no assurances can be given that such insurance or recovery plan will adequately cover lost business as a result of such an interruption. If we fail to accurately forecast demand for our products, we would be exposed to risk associated with inventory. We must identify the right product mix and maintain sufficient inventory on hand to meet customer orders. Failure to do so could adversely affect our sales and earnings. However, if circumstances change, there could be a material impact on the net realizable value of our inventory, which could adversely affect our results. We may be unable to effectively protect our proprietary technology, which would negatively affect our ability to compete. Also, if our products are alleged to violate the proprietary rights of others, our ability to compete would be negatively impacted. Our success depends partly upon certain proprietary technologies developed within our products. To date, we have relied principally upon trademark, copyright and trade secret laws to protect our proprietary technologies. We generally enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our customers, distributors and potential customers, which limit access to and distribution of the source code to our software and other proprietary information. Our employees are subject to our strict employment policy regarding confidentiality. There can be no assurance that the steps taken by us in this regard will be 14 adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technologies or to provide an effective remedy in the event of a misappropriation by others. Although we believe that our products do not infringe on the proprietary rights of third parties, there can be no assurance that infringement claims will not be asserted, possibly resulting in costly litigation in which we may not ultimately prevail. Adverse determinations in such litigation could result in the loss of proprietary rights, subject us to significant liabilities, require that we seek licenses from third parties or prevent us from manufacturing or selling our products, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. It may be necessary to obtain technology licenses from others due to the large number of patents in the telecommunications and computer networking industry and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents and new standards or to obtain important new technology. There can be no assurance that these third party technology licenses will be available on commercially reasonable terms. The loss of or inability to obtain any of these technology licenses could result in delays or reductions in product shipments. Such delays or reductions in product shipments could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. We depend on key personnel to manage our business effectively. Our success depends on the continued contributions of our personnel and on our ability to attract and retain skilled employees. Changes in personnel could adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. We have substantial international activities, which expose us to additional business risks including political, economic and currency risks. In 2010, we derived approximately 64% of our revenues from sales outside of North America. Economic and political conditions in some of these markets as well as different legal, tax, accounting and other regulatory requirements may adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. We are exposed to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates because we conduct business on a global basis and in some cases in foreign currencies. Our operations in France have been measured in the local currency and converted into U.S. Dollars based on published exchange rates for the periods reported and were therefore subject to risk of exchange rate fluctuations (See Item 7A — Foreign Currency Risk). We may require additional working capital to fund operations and expand our business. We believe our current financial resources will be sufficient to meet our present working capital and capital expenditure requirements for the next twelve months. However, we may need to raise additional capital before this period ends to further: • fund research and development of new products beyond what is expected in 2011; • expand product and service offerings beyond what is contemplated in 2011 if unforeseen opportunities arise; • take advantage of potential acquisition opportunities in the current economic environment; 15 • invest in businesses and technologies that complement our current operations; or • respond to unforeseen competitive pressures. Our future liquidity and capital requirements will depend upon numerous factors, including the success of the existing and new product and service offerings and potentially competing technological and market developments. However, any projections of future cash flows are subject to substantial uncertainty. From time to time, we expect to evaluate the acquisition of, or investment in, businesses and technologies that complement our current operations. If current cash, marketable securities, lines of credit and cash generated from operations are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity securities, issue debt securities or increase our working capital line of credit. The sale of additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to shareholders. There can be no assurance that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable, if at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, our ability to develop or enhance products and services, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures would be limited. This limitation could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We have incurred significant losses. We posted net losses of approximately $8.4 million, $5.6 million, and $3.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 respectively. In order to achieve profitability consistently, we will need to generate higher revenues while containing costs and operating expenses. We cannot be certain that our revenues will grow or that we will generate sufficient revenues to achieve and maintain profitability on a long-term, sustained basis. If we fail to achieve and maintain profitability, then the market price of our common stock will likely be negatively impacted. We may experience significant period-to-period quarterly and annual fluctuations in our revenue and operating results, which may result in volatility in our stock price. The trading price of our common stock is subject to wide fluctuations in response to quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in operating results, general conditions in the telecommunications and networking industry and other events or factors. In addition, stock markets have experienced extreme price and trading volume volatility in recent years. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market price of the securities of many high-technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our common stock has historically had relatively small trading volumes. As a result, small transactions in our common stock can have a disproportionately large impact on the price of our common stock. If our stock does not continue to be traded on an established exchange, an active trading market may not exist and the trading price of our stock may decline. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Market. The NASDAQ Global Market’s continued listing standards for our common stock require, among other things, that (i) the closing bid price for our common stock not fall below $1.00; (ii) we have at least 400 beneficial holders and/or holders of record of our common stock; (iii) our stockholders’ equity not fall below $10 million; (iv) we have more than 750,000 shares held by the public (excluding officers, directors, and beneficial holders of 10% or more) 16 with a market value of at least $5.0 million; and (v) we have at least two registered and active dealers meeting the requirements set forth in the standards. A failure to meet these continued listing requirements is generally required to exist for a period of 10 to 30 consecutive business days (depending upon the type of failure) before a deficiency will be determined to exist. If our common stock was threatened with delisting from the NASDAQ Global Market, we may, depending on the circumstances, seek to extend the period for regaining compliance with NASDAQ listing requirements or we may pursue other strategic alternatives to meet the continuing listing standards. In addition, we may choose to voluntarily delist from NASDAQ, or “go dark,” in the event we believe we may be subject to a delisting proceeding or for any other reason our Board of Directors determines it to be in the best interest of our stockholders. If our common stock is delisted by, or we voluntarily delist from, the NASDAQ Global Market, our common stock may be eligible to trade on the NASDAQ Capital Market, the OTC Bulletin Board, or the Pink OTC Markets. In such an event, it could become more difficult to dispose of, or obtain accurate quotations for the price of, our common stock, and there also would likely be a reduction in our coverage by security analysts and the news media, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline further. The cost of compliance or failure to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 may adversely affect our business. As a smaller reporting company, we are not subject to the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 that require an attestation report from our registered independent public accounting firm regarding management’s assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting. If we cease to qualify as a smaller reporting company or as a non-accelerated filer, we would become subject to this requirement, which could cause us to incur substantial additional costs and may adversely affect our financial results. The failure of our registered independent public accounting firm to concur with management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting may result in investors losing confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which may result in a decrease in the trading price of our common stock, prevent us from providing the required financial information in a timely manner which could materially and adversely impact our business, our financial condition and the trading price of our common stock, prevent us from otherwise complying with the standards applicable to us as a public company and subject us to additional regulatory consequences. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 