ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investors should consider carefully the following risk factors that could cause our operating results and financial condition to be materially adversely affected. New risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our business or financial performance. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other detailed information concerning IPALCO Enterprises, Inc and Indianapolis Power & Light Company set forth in the Notes to audited Consolidated Financial Statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” and in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” herein. Our electric generating facilities are subject to operational risks that could result in unscheduled plant outages, unanticipated operation and maintenance expenses and increased fuel or purchased power costs. We operate coal, oil and natural gas generating facilities, which involve certain risks that can adversely affect energy output and efficiency levels. These risks include: increased prices for fuel and fuel transportation as existing contracts expire; facility shutdowns due to a breakdown or failure of equipment or processes; disruptions in the availability or delivery of fuel and lack of adequate inventories; labor disputes; inability to comply with regulatory or permit requirements; disruptions in the delivery of electricity; operator error; and catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, terrorist acts, acts of war, pandemic events, or natural disasters such as floods, earthquakes, tornadoes or other similar occurrences affecting our generating facilities. The above risks could result in unscheduled plant outages, unanticipated operation and maintenance expenses, increased capital expenditures, and/or increased fuel and purchased power costs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. At times, demand for electric energy could exceed our supply capacity. We are currently obligated to supply electric energy in our service territory. From time to time and because of unforeseen circumstances, the demand for electric energy required to meet these obligations could exceed our available electric generating capability. If this occurs, we would have to buy electric energy on the market. We may not always have the ability to pass the costs of purchasing the electric energy on to our customers, and even if we are able to do so, there may be a significant delay between the time the costs are incurred and the time the costs are recovered (see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Regulatory Matters - Fuel Adjustment Charge and Authorized Jurisdictional Net Operating Income.”) Since these situations most often occur during periods of peak demand, there is a material risk that the market price for electric energy at the time we purchase it could be very high under these circumstances, and we may not be allowed to recover such costs through our Fuel Adjustment Charges. Even if a supply shortage was brief, we could suffer substantial losses that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our transmission and distribution system is subject to reliability and capacity risks. The on-going reliable performance of our transmission and distribution system is subject to risks due to, among other things, weather damage, intentional or unintentional damage, plant outages, labor disputes, operator error, or inoperability of key infrastructure internal or external to us. The failure of our transmission and distribution system to fully deliver the energy demanded by customers could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, and if such failures occur too often or for an extended period of time, could result in action by the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. In addition, the advent and quick adaptation of new products and services that require increased levels of electrical energy cannot be predicted and could result in insufficient transmission and distribution system capacity. As with all utilities, potential concern over transmission capacity could result in the Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator, Inc., or the FERC requiring us to upgrade or expand our transmission system through additional capital expenditures. More than half of our supply of coal that we use to generate substantially all of our electricity comes from one supplier. More than 99% of the total kWhs produced by us was generated from coal in each of 2007, 2006, and 2005. Our existing coal contracts provide for nearly all of our projected requirements in 2008 and approximately 88% through 2010. We have long-term coal contracts with five suppliers. Substantially all of the coal is currently mined in the state of Indiana. More than half of our contracted coal is from one supplier. We have entered into three long-term contracts with this non-union supplier for the provision of coal from three separate mines. Any significant disruption in the delivery of coal from this supplier, or any failure on the part of this supplier to fulfill its contractual obligation to deliver coal, could have a material adverse effect on our business. In the event of such disruption, there can be no assurance that we would be able to purchase power or find another supplier of coal on favorable terms, which may also limit our ability to recover fuel costs through the FAC. Catastrophic events could adversely affect our facilities, systems and operations. Catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, terrorist acts, acts of war, pandemic events, or natural disasters such as floods, earthquakes, tornadoes or other similar occurrences could adversely affect our generation facilities, transmission and distribution systems, operations, earnings and cash flow. Our Petersburg Plant, which is our largest source of generating capacity, is located in the Wabash Valley seismic zone, adjacent to the New Madrid seismic zone, areas of significant seismic activity in the central United States. Our business is sensitive to weather and seasonal variations. Our business is affected by variations in general weather conditions and unusually severe weather. As a result of these factors, the operating revenues and associated operating expenses are not generated evenly by month during the year. We forecast electric sales on the basis of normal weather, which represents a long-term historical average. Significant variations from normal weather (such as warmer winters and cooler summers) could have a material impact on our revenue, operating income and net income and cash flows. Storms that interrupt services to our customers have required us in the past, and may require us in the future, to incur significant costs to restore services. The electricity business is highly regulated and any changes in regulations, or adverse regulatory action, could reduce revenues or increase costs. As an electric utility, we are subject to extensive regulation at both the federal and state level. At the federal level, we are regulated by the FERC and, at the state level, we are regulated by the IURC. The regulatory power of the IURC over IPL is both comprehensive and typical of the economic regulation generally imposed by state public utility commissions. We face the risk of unexpected or adverse regulatory action. Regulatory discretion is reasonably broad in Indiana. We are subject to regulation by the IURC as to our services and facilities, the valuation of property, the construction, purchase, or lease of electric generating facilities, the classification of accounts, rates of depreciation, the increase or decrease in retail rates and charges, the issuance of securities (other than evidences of indebtedness payable less than twelve months after the date of issue), the acquisition and sale of public utility properties or securities and certain other matters. Our tariff rates for electric service to retail customers consist of basic rates and charges and various tracking mechanisms which are set and approved by the IURC after public hearings. Pursuant to statute, the IURC is to conduct a periodic review of the basic rates and charges of all utilities at least once every four years, but the IURC has the authority to review the rates of any utility at any time it chooses. Proceedings to review our basic rates and charges, which have occurred at irregular intervals, involve IPL, the Indiana Office of Utility Consumer Counselor and other interested consumer groups and customers. In addition, we must seek the approval from the IURC through such public proceedings of our tracking mechanism factors to reflect changes in our fuel costs to generate electricity or purchased power costs and for the timely recovery of costs incurred during construction and operation of Clean Coal Technology facilities constructed to comply with environmental laws and regulations. There can be no assurance that we will be granted approval of our tracking mechanism factors that we request from the IURC. The failure of the IURC to approve any requested relief, or any other adverse rate determination by the IURC, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In recent years, federal and state regulation of electric utilities has changed dramatically, including the Energy Policy Act of 2005. Much of the legislation directs the FERC, the Department of Energy, and other agencies to develop rules for the implementation of the EPAct. The EPAct contains provisions specifically related to the electric utility industry including, but not limited to, the following: climate change issues, mandatory reliability standards, amendments to the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act, repeal of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, enactment of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005, clean power initiatives, transmission expansion and energy efficiency proposals. The adoption of rules by either the FERC or the IURC implementing the EPAct could affect our business. We are currently unable to predict the impact, if any, to our results of operations. Independent of the IURC’s ability to review basic rates and charges, Indiana law requires electric utilities under the jurisdiction of the IURC to meet operating expense and income test requirements as a condition for approval of requested changes in FAC. Additionally, customer refunds may result if a utility’s rolling twelve month operating income, determined at quarterly measurement dates, exceeds a utility’s authorized annual jurisdictional net operating income and there are not sufficient applicable cumulative net operating income deficiencies against which the excess rolling twelve month jurisdictional net operating income can be offset. In our three most recently approved FAC filings, the IURC found that our rolling annual jurisdictional retail electric net operating income was greater than the authorized annual jurisdictional net operating income by $24.6 million for the twelve months ended October 31, 2007; by $22.5 million for the twelve months ended July 31, 2007; and by $3.8 million for the twelve months ended April 30, 2007. In addition, in our March 24, 2008 FAC filing, which has not yet been approved by the IURC, our rolling annual jurisdictional retail electric net operating income was calculated to be greater than the authorized annual jurisdictional net operating income by $23.5 million for the twelve months ended January 31, 2008. Because we have a cumulative net operating income deficiency, we have not been required to make customer refunds in our FAC proceedings, however, even though we have a cumulative net operating income deficiency, the IURC may still review our basic rates and charges on a prospective basis at any time it chooses. In December 2007, we received a letter from the staff of the IURC requesting information relevant to IURC’s periodic review of our basic rates and charges and we subsequently provided information to the staff. Since our cumulative net operating income deficiency (described above) requires no customer refunds, the IURC staff was concerned that the higher than usual 2007 earnings may continue in the future. In an effort to allay staff’s concerns, we proposed in our March 24, 2008 FAC filing a prospective one-time credit to customers totaling $30 million. If approved, the credit will provide an offset against fuel charges customers would otherwise pay in the billing months of June, July and August of 2008. Consistent with this proposal, we recorded a $30 million contingent liability in March 2008 with a corresponding reduction against revenues. It is not clear what action, if any, the IURC staff will recommend as a result of its periodic review of our basic rates and charges. Our participation in the Midwest ISO network involves risks. We are a member of the Midwest ISO, a FERC approved regional transmission organization. The Midwest ISO serves the electrical transmission needs of much of the Midwest and maintains functional operational control over our electric transmission facilities as well as that of the other Midwest utility members of the Midwest ISO. We retain control over our distribution facilities. As a result of membership in the Midwest ISO and their operational control, our continued ability to import power, when necessary, and export power to the wholesale market has been, and may continue to be, impacted. We offer our generation and bid our load into this market on a day-ahead basis and settle differences in real time. Given the nature of the Midwest ISO’s policies regarding use of transmission facilities, and its administration of the energy market, it is difficult to predict near term operational impacts. We cannot assure you the Midwest ISO’s reliable operation of the regional transmission system, nor the impact of its operation of the energy market. At the federal level, there are business risks for us associated with multiple proceedings pending before the FERC related to our membership and participation in the Midwest ISO. These proceedings involve such issues as transmission rates, construction of new transmission facilities, implementation of an Ancillary Services Market, and evolving standards for resource adequacy including sanctions for non-compliance. In January 2008, we and three other Indiana utilities that are members of the Midwest ISO filed a joint petition with the IURC seeking approval of our participation in the ASM, and seeking the timely recovery of associated costs. We currently cannot predict the impact of these proceedings on our financial position, liquidity or results of operations, but the impact could be material. To the extent that we rely, at least in part, on the performance of the Midwest ISO to maintain the reliability of our transmission system, it puts us at some risk for the performance of the Midwest ISO. In addition, actions taken by the Midwest ISO to secure the reliable operation of the entire transmission system operated by the Midwest ISO could result in voltage reductions, rolling blackouts, or sustained system wide blackouts on IPL’s transmission and distribution system, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. (See also “Item 1. Business - Regulatory Matters - Midwest ISO Operations” and “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Industry Changes.”) Our ownership by the AES Corporation subjects us to potential risks that are beyond our control. All of IPL’s common stock is owned by IPALCO, all of whose common stock is owned by AES. The interests of AES may differ from the interests of IPALCO, IPL or any of their creditors or other stakeholders. Further, due to our relationship with AES, any adverse developments and announcements concerning them may affect our ability to access the capital markets and to otherwise conduct business. In particular, downgrades in AES’s credit ratings could potentially result in IPL or IPALCO’s credit ratings being downgraded. IPL’s common stock is pledged to secure certain indebtedness of IPALCO, and IPALCO’s common stock is pledged to secure certain indebtedness of AES. IPALCO is a holding company and is dependent on IPL for dividends to meet its debt service obligations. IPALCO is a holding company with no material assets other than the common stock of its subsidiaries, and accordingly all cash is generated by the operating activities of our subsidiaries, principally IPL. None of IPALCO’s subsidiaries, including IPL, is obligated to make any payments with respect to its $750 million Senior Secured Notes; however, the common stock of IPL is pledged to secure payment of these notes. Accordingly, IPALCO’s ability to make payments on its Senior Secured Notes is dependent not only on the ability of IPL to generate cash in the future, but also on the ability of IPL to distribute cash to IPALCO. IPL’s mortgage and deed of trust and its amended articles of incorporation contain restrictions on IPL’s ability to issue certain securities or pay cash dividends to us. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources” for a discussion of these restrictions. See Note 10, “Indebtedness and Restricted Cash” to the audited Consolidated Financial Statements of IPALCO in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” included in this Form 10-K for information regarding indebtedness. We rely on access to the capital markets, so the inability to maintain current credit ratings and access capital markets on favorable terms could increase interest costs and/or adversely affect liquidity and cash flow. From time to time we rely on access to capital markets as a source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by operating cash flows. Our inability to maintain our current credit ratings could affect our ability to raise capital and to do so on favorable terms, particularly during times of uncertainty in the capital markets. See Note 10, “Indebtedness and Restricted Cash” to the audited Consolidated Financial Statements of IPALCO in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” included in this Form 10-K for information regarding indebtedness. See also “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk - Credit Market Risk” for information related to credit market risks. The level of our indebtedness, and the security provided for this indebtedness, could adversely affect our financial flexibility. As of December 31, 2007, we had on a consolidated basis $1.27 billion of long-term indebtedness and total common shareholder’s deficit of $11.2 million. We also had $375 million of the $750 million total principal amount of outstanding IPALCO’s Senior Secured Notes classified as current maturities, all of which are secured by IPALCO’s pledge of all the outstanding common stock of IPL. IPL had $837.7 million of First Mortgage Bonds outstanding as of December 31, 2007, which are secured by the pledge of substantially all of the assets of IPL under the terms of IPL’s mortgage and deed of trust. We also had $60.0 million of unsecured indebtedness. This level of indebtedness and related security could have important consequences, including the following: increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund other corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds, as needed. We expect to incur additional debt in the future, subject to the terms of our debt agreements, and regulatory approvals for any IPL debt. To the extent we become more leveraged, the risks described above would increase. Further, our actual cash requirements in the future may be greater than expected. Accordingly, our cash flow from operations may not be sufficient to repay at maturity all of the outstanding debt as it becomes due and, in that event, we may not be able to borrow money, sell assets or otherwise raise funds on acceptable terms or at all to refinance our debt as it becomes due. For a further discussion of outstanding debt, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources.” General economic conditions may adversely affect our business. Our business is affected by general economic conditions. In particular, the projected economic and population growth in Indianapolis is important to the realization of our forecasts for annual energy sales growth. A downturn in the Indianapolis economy could adversely affect our expected performance. Parties providing construction materials or services may fail to perform their obligations, which could harm our results of operations. Our construction program calls for extensive expenditures for capital improvements and additions, including the installation of environmental upgrades, improvements to transmission and distribution facilities as well as other initiatives. As a result, we have engaged, and will continue to engage, numerous contractors and entered into a number of agreements to acquire the necessary materials and/or obtain the required construction related services. This exposes us to the risk that these contractors and other counterparties could fail to perform. In addition, some contracts provide for us to assume the risk of price escalation and availability of certain metals and key components. This could force us to enter into alternative arrangements at then-current market prices that may exceed our contractual prices and cause construction delays. Although our agreements are designed to mitigate the consequences of a potential default by the counterparty, our actual exposure may be greater than these mitigation provisions. This would cause our financial results to be diminished, and we might incur losses or delays in completing construction. We could incur significant capital expenditures to comply with environmental laws and regulations. We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things, the generation, storage, handling, use, disposal and transportation of hazardous materials; the emission and discharge of hazardous and other materials into the environment; and the health and safety of our employees. These laws and regulations often require a lengthy and complex process of obtaining and renewing permits and other governmental authorizations from federal, state and local agencies. A violation of these laws, regulations or permits can result in substantial fines, other sanctions, permit revocation and/or facility shutdowns. We cannot provide assurance that we have been or will be at all times in full compliance with such laws, regulations and permits, however, we do not believe any currently open investigations will result in fines material to our results of operations or financial position. Under certain environmental laws, we could be held responsible for costs relating to contamination at our past or present facilities and at third party waste disposal sites. We could also be held liable for human exposure to such hazardous substances or for other environmental damage. We cannot assure you that our costs of complying with current and future environmental and health and safety laws, and our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances will not adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Please see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Environmental Matters” for a more comprehensive discussion of environmental matters impacting IPL and IPALCO. Commodity price changes may affect the operating costs and competitive position of our business. Our business is sensitive to changes in the price of coal, the primary fuel we use to produce electricity, and to a lesser extent, to the changes in price of natural gas, purchased power and emissions allowances. In addition, changes in the price of steel, copper and other raw materials can have a significant impact on our costs. Any changes in coal prices could affect the prices we charge, our operating costs and our competitive position with respect to our products and services. While we have approximately 88% of our current coal requirements through 2010 under long-term contracts, the balance is purchased under short-term contracts and on the spot market where prices can be highly volatile. We are also dependent on purchased power, in part, to meet our seasonal planning reserve margins. Our exposure to fluctuations in the price of coal is limited because pursuant to Indiana law, we may apply to the IURC for a change in our FAC every three (3) months to recover our estimated fuel costs, which may be above or below the levels included in our basic rates. In addition, we may recover the fuel portion of our purchased power costs in these quarterly FAC proceedings. We must present evidence in each proceeding that we have made every reasonable effort to acquire fuel and generate or purchase power or both so as to provide electricity to our retail customers at the lowest fuel cost reasonably possible. We are subject to employee workforce factors that could affect our businesses and financial condition. We are subject to employee workforce factors, including, among other things, loss or retirement of key personnel, availability of qualified personnel, collective bargaining agreements. Approximately 44% of our employees are over the age of 50. Approximately 64% of our employees are represented by the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers and work stoppages could affect our businesses and financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our net pension plan obligations may require additional significant contributions. Pension costs are based upon a number of actuarial assumptions, including an expected long-term rate of return on pension plan assets, the expected life span of pension plan beneficiaries and the discount rate used to determine the present value of future pension obligations. Any of these assumptions could prove to be wrong, resulting in a shortfall of pension plan assets compared to pension obligations under the pension plan. We are responsible for funding any shortfall of pension plan assets compared to pension obligations under the pension plan. Our pension plan assets consist of investments in domestic and international equities, fixed income securities, alternative investments (currently hedge funds), and cash. The Pension Protection Act of 2006, which contains comprehensive pension funding reform legislation, was enacted into law during the third quarter of 2006. The pension funding provisions are effective January 1, 2008. The Pension Act requires plans that are less than 100% funded to fully fund any funding shortfall in amortized level installments over seven years, beginning in the year of the shortfall. In addition, we must also contribute the normal (service) cost earned by active participants during the plan year. Then, each year thereafter, if the plan’s underfunding increases to more than the present value of the remaining annual installments, the excess is separately amortized over a new seven-year period. The Pension Act mandated the Treasury Department to determine specific guidelines and procedures on numerous provisions that could affect the timing of required pension funding. Additional guidelines and procedures may continue to be issued by the Treasury Department in 2008. At this time, we do not expect any additional guidelines and procedures to have a significant impact on funding requirements. Please see Note 12, “Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits” to the audited Consolidated Financial Statements of IPALCO in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” included in this Form 10-K for further discussion. From time to time, we are subject to material litigation and regulatory proceedings. We may be subject to material litigation, regulatory proceedings, administrative proceedings, settlements, investigations and claims from time to time. There can be no assurance that the outcome of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Please see Note 2, “Regulatory Matters” and Note 13, “Commitments and Contingencies” to the audited Consolidated Financial Statements of IPALCO in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” included in this Form 10-K for a summary of significant regulatory matters and legal proceedings involving us. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None ITEM 1C. DEFINED TERMS DEFINED TERMS The following is a list of frequently used abbreviations or acronyms that are found in this Form 10-K: AES The AES Corporation ASM Ancillary Services Market BART Best Available Retrofit Technology CAA Clean Air Act CAIR Clean Air Interstate Rule CAMR Clean Air Mercury Rule CCT Clean Coal Technology CO2 Carbon Dioxide Defined Benefits Pension Plan Employees’ Retirement Plan of Indianapolis Power & Light Company Deloitte Deloitte & Touche LLP DSM Demand-Side Management ECCRA Environmental Compliance Cost Recovery Adjustment EnerTech EnerTech Capital Partners II L.P. EPA U.S. Environmental Protection Agency EPAct Energy Policy Act of 2005 ERO Electric Reliability Organization Exchange Act Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended FAC Fuel Adjustment Charges FASB Financial Accounting Standards Board FERC Federal Energy Regulatory Commission FIN Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation FIN 48 Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 48 “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes - an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109” IBEW International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers IDEM Indiana Department of Environmental Management IPALCO IPALCO Enterprises, Inc. IPALCO’s Senior Secured Notes $375 million of 8.375% and $375 million of 8.625% Senior Secured Notes due November 14, 2008 and November 14, 2011, respectively IPL Indianapolis Power & Light Company IPL Funding IPL Funding Corporation IURC Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission J.P. Morgan J.P. Morgan Securities, Inc. kWh Kilowatt hours Mid-America Mid-America Capital Resources, Inc. Midwest ISO Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator, Inc. MW Megawatt NOx Nitrogen Oxides NSR New Source Review Pension Act Pension Protection Act of 2006 Pension Plans Employees’ Retirement Plan of Indianapolis Power & Light Company and Supplemental Retirement Plan of Indianapolis Power & Light Company Pollution Control Bonds IPL’s $40 Million City of Petersburg, Indiana, Pollution Control Refunding Revenue Bonds Adjustable Rate Tender Securities Series 1995B, Indianapolis Power & Light Company Project REMC Rural Electric Membership Cooperative RFC ReliabilityFirst Corporation RSG Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee RSP AES Retirement Savings Plan SFAS Statement of Financial Accounting Standards SFAS 71 Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 71 “Accounting for the Effect of Certain Types of Regulation” SFAS 158 Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 158 “Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefits Pension and Other Postretirement Plans - an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132R” SIP State Implementation Plan SO2 Sulfur Dioxide S&P Standard & Poors TEMT Transmission and Energy Markets Tariff Thrift Plan Employees’ Thrift Plan of Indianapolis Power & Light Company VEBA Trust Voluntary Employee Beneficiary Association Trust 