RISK FACTORS This section summarizes certain risks, among others, that should be considered by stockholders and prospective investors in the Company. Many of these risks are also discussed in other sections of this report. Risk Related to the Company's Ability to Attract Qualified Caregivers. The Company relies significantly on its ability to attract and retain caregivers who possess the skills, experience and licenses necessary to meet the requirements of the Company's customers. The Company competes for home health care services personnel with other providers of home health care services. The Company must continually evaluate and expand its network of caregivers to keep pace with its customers' needs. Currently, there is a shortage of qualified nurses and a diminishing pool of home health aides in the states in which the Company conducts its business, competition for nursing personnel is increasing and wages and benefit costs have risen. The Company may be unable to continue to increase the number of caregivers that it recruits, adversely affecting the potential for growth of the Company's business. The Company's ability to attract and retain caregivers depends on several factors, including the Company's ability to provide such caregivers with assignments that they view as attractive and with competitive wages and benefits. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in any of these areas. The cost of attracting caregivers and providing them with attractive benefit packages may be higher than the Company anticipates and, as a result, if it is unable to obtain increased reimbursement rates, the Company's profitability could decline. Moreover, if the Company is unable to attract and retain caregivers, the quality of its services to its customers may decline and, as a result, it could lose certain customers. Effective May 1, 2004 Allen Health Care and District Council 1707, AFSCME concluded negotiations on an initial three-year labor contract. There can be no assurance that the terms of this collective bargaining agreement will not have a material adverse effect on the Company. On May 13, 2005, Accredited received a copy of a Petition for Certification of Representative, pursuant to the provisions of the National Labor Relations Act. It is expected that a union vote will be held on a date to be determined by the NLRB. There can be no assurance as to the outcome of this election, that further unionizing activity will not occur at this or other subsidiaries of the Company or that any such activity or any new collective bargaining agreements will not have a material adverse effect on the Company. Risks Related to Competition. The home health care business is highly competitive. Some of the Company's competitors, unlike the Company, provide pharmaceutical products and other home health care services that generate additional referrals. Some of the Company's competitors also may have greater marketing and financial resources than the Company. The Company believes that the primary competitive factors in obtaining and retaining - 8 - customers are the quality of services provided and the pricing of such services. Competition for referrals may increase in the future and, as a result, the Company may not be able to remain competitive. To the extent competitors gain or retain market share by reducing prices or increasing marketing expenditures, the Company could lose market share or otherwise experience a material adverse effect. The Company does not have long-term agreements or exclusive guaranteed order contracts with its customers. The success of the Company's business is dependent upon its ability to continually secure new business from its customers and to service such new business with its caregivers. The Company's customers are free to seek services from the Company's competitors and to use caregivers that such competitors offer them. Therefore, the Company must maintain positive relationships with its customers, otherwise the Company may be unable to generate new business for its caregivers, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Risks Related to Medicare and Medicaid Retroactive Adjustments and Recoupments. The Company, as a Medicare and Medicaid provider, is subject to retroactive adjustments due to prior year audits, reviews and investigations, government fraud and abuse initiatives and other similar actions. Federal regulations also provide for withholding payments to recoup amounts payable under the programs. While the Company believes it is in material compliance with applicable Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement regulations, there can be no assurance that the Company, pursuant to such audits, reviews and investigations, among other things, will be found to be in compliance in all respects with such reimbursement regulations. A determination that the Company is in violation of any such reimbursement regulations could result in retroactive adjustments and recoupments and have a material adverse effect on the Company. As a Medicaid provider, the Company also is subject to routine, unscheduled audits, which may have an adverse impact on the Company's results of operations. For information on a recent audit performed by the Connecticut Department of Social Services, Office of Quality Assurance, see "Government Regulation and Licensing - Audit". Risks Related to Federal and State Regulations. The Company is subject to substantial and frequently changing federal, state and local regulations. The Company must also comply with state licensing along with federal and state eligibility standards for certification as a Medicare and Medicaid provider. In addition, new laws and regulations are adopted periodically to regulate new and existing services in the health care industry. Changes in laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations can have a dramatic effect on operating methods, costs and reimbursement amounts provided by government and other third-party payers. Federal laws governing the Company's activities include regulation of Medicare reimbursement and certification and certain financial relationships with health care providers (collectively, the "fraud and abuse laws"). Although the Company intends to comply with all applicable federal and state fraud and abuse laws, these laws are not always clear and may be subject to a range of potential interpretations. (For further discussion on such fraud and abuse laws, see "Government Regulation and Licensing - Medicare Fraud and Abuse"). There can be no assurance that administrative or judicial clarification or interpretation of existing laws or regulations, or legislative enactment of new laws or regulations, will not have a material adverse effect on the Company. In addition, the Balanced Budget Act of 1997, as amended (the "Balanced Budget Act"), introduced several government initiatives causing changes to Medicare reimbursement. These changes have resulted in the Company experiencing a decline in revenue from its Medicare certified nursing agency. (For further discussion on the Balanced Budget Act, see "Government Regulation and Licensing - Medicare"). New England and Medical Resources, as participants in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, are subject to survey and audits of operational, clinical and financial records with respect to proper applications of general regulations governing operations and billing of claims. These audits can result in - 9 - retroactive adjustments for payments received from these programs resulting in amounts due to governmental agencies. There can be no assurance that federal, state or local governments will not change existing standards or impose additional standards. Any failure to comply with existing or future standards could have a material adverse effect on the Company. For information as to surveys of New England conducted by the Division of Health Services Regulation for the Connecticut Department of Public Heath (the "DPH"), see "Government Regulation and Licensing - Surveys". A failure by New England to retain Medicare certification would result in New England's termination from participating in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Revenues derived from New England's participation in these programs for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2005 were 33% of the Company's total revenues. In October 2003, New England received a subpoena from the United States Attorney's Office in New Haven, Connecticut. The subpoena sought production of documents in connection with an investigation into possible violations of certain federal health care laws. The Company believes that the investigation, which the Company understands is being conducted in parallel with an investigation by state of Connecticut authorities, seeks evidence of potentially fraudulent claims that may have been submitted by psychiatric nurses employed by New England. The Company cannot now predict the course or outcome of the investigation or whether additional information will be sought. The Company believes that the investigation extends to certain other competitors in the Connecticut market for psychiatric nursing. New England has produced documents in response to the subpoena and intends to continue to cooperate with the investigation. In the event that the government investigation uncovers a fraudulent scheme and New England is convicted of participating in such a scheme, the penalties could include (1) fines and restitution in excess of $1,000,000, (2) organizational probation that could include requirements such as court-monitored supervision and termination of responsible employees, officers and/or directors and (3) suspension or debarment from federally funded programs. Ancillary consequences could include: (1) criminal prosecution of responsible employees, officers and directors, (2) civil enforcement and penalties and (3) default under loan and insurance covenants. Risks Related to the Company's Exposure to Professional Liabilities. Provision of home health care services entails an inherent risk of liability. Certain participants in the home health care industry may be subject to lawsuits that may involve large claims and significant defense costs. It is expected that the Company periodically will be subject to such suits as a result of the nature of its business. The Company currently maintains professional liability insurance intended to cover such claims in amounts which management believes are in accordance with industry standards. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain liability insurance coverage in the future on acceptable terms, if at all. There can be no assurance that claims in excess of the Company's insurance coverage or claims not covered by the Company's insurance coverage will not arise. A successful claim against the Company in excess of the Company's insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Claims against the Company, regardless of their merit or eventual outcome, may also have a material adverse effect on the Company's ability to attract customers or to expand its business. In addition, one of the Company's subsidiaries is self-insured for its workers compensation and is at risk for claims up to certain levels. Risks Related to Third Party Payers. For the twelve months ended July 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, the percentage of the Company's revenues derived from Medicare and Medicaid was 51%, 48%, and 47%, respectively. The revenues and profitability of the Company are affected by the continuing efforts of all third-party payers to contain or - 10 - reduce the costs of health care by lowering reimbursement rates, narrowing the scope of covered services, increasing case management review of services and negotiating reduced contract pricing. Any changes in reimbursement levels under Medicare, Medicaid or other payer sources and any changes in applicable government regulations could have a material adverse effect on the Company. See Item 7 - "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Certain Trends Expected to Impact Future Results of Operations". Changes in the mix of the Company's patients among Medicare, Medicaid and other payer sources may also affect the Company's revenues and profitability. Risks Related to the Company's Acquisition Strategy. In recent years, the Company's strategic focus has been on the acquisition of small to medium sized home health care agencies, or of certain of their assets, in targeted markets. These acquisitions involve significant risks and uncertainties, including difficulties integrating acquired personnel and other corporate cultures into the Company's business, the potential loss of key employees or customers of acquired companies, the assumption of liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies and the diversion of management attention from existing operations. The Company may not be able to fully integrate the operations of the acquired businesses with its own in an efficient and cost-effective manner. The failure to effectively integrate any of these businesses could have a material adverse effect on the Company. In addition, the Company's growth over the last several years has principally resulted from acquisitions and penetration of markets abandoned by competitors. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to identify suitable acquisitions or available market share in the future nor that any such opportunities, if identified, will be consummated on terms favorable to the Company, if at all. In the absence of such successful transactions, there can be no assurance that the Company will experience further growth, nor that such transactions, if consummated, will result in further growth. In addition, although the Company attempted in its acquisitions to determine the nature and extent of any pre-existing liabilities, and has obtained indemnification rights from the previous owners for acts or omissions arising prior to the date of the acquisition, resolving issues of liability between the parties could involve a significant amount of time, manpower and expense on the part of the Company. If the Company or any of its subsidiaries were to be unsuccessful in a claim for indemnity from a seller, the liability imposed on the Company or its subsidiary could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company has grown significantly over the past few years. This growth, which has resulted primarily from acquisitions and which management intends to continue to pursue, poses a number of difficulties and risks for the Company. As the Company has grown and may continue to grow (as to which there can be no assurance) in both revenue and geographical scope, such growth stretches the various resources of the Company, including management, information systems, regulatory compliance, logistics and other controls. There can be no assurance that such resources will keep pace with such growth. If the Company does not maintain such pace, then its prospects would be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to the Company's Dependence on Senior Management. The Company believes that the success of its business strategy and its ability to operate profitably depends on the continued employment of its senior management team. If any member of the Company's senior management team becomes unable or unwilling to continue in his present position, the Company's business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. - 11 - COMPETITION The home health care field is highly competitive in each state in which the Company operates. The Company is competing with numerous other licensed as well as certified home health care agencies in each of the markets it serves. In addition, the Company competes with companies that, in addition to providing home health aide and skilled nursing services, also, unlike the Company, provide pharmaceutical products and other home health care services that generate additional referrals. The Company believes it is one of the largest competitors in the state of Connecticut. However, the Company believes that numerous competitors in the other principal markets served by the Company (i.e., the states of Massachusetts, New York and New Jersey) have substantially greater personnel, financial and other resources than the Company. Competition also involves the quality of services provided and the pricing for such services. The Company's largest competitors include Gentiva Health Services, Inc., Premier Health Services, Patient Care, Inc., New York Health Care, Inc. and Personal Touch Home Care, Inc. As a result of changes in Medicare reimbursement and the competitive pressures of managed care, the home health care industry continues to experience consolidation. In addition, the Company believes that smaller, less financially secure home health agencies will continue to find it difficult to compete for market share and comply with regulatory compliance standards. The Company's ability to attract a staff of highly trained personnel is a material element of its business. There currently is intense competition for qualified personnel and there can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in maintaining or in securing additional qualified personnel. The Company's competition for personnel comes from other industries as well. If and to the extent that reimbursement rates and other factors constrain wages and other benefits to caregivers, other industries offering more attractive compensation and other benefits also may attract eligible home health care personnel. The Company recruits personnel principally through newspaper advertisements and through referrals from existing personnel. CUSTOMERS The Company provides its services to four types of payer sources. These sources include federal and state funded public assistance programs (Medicare and Medicaid), other third party payers (subcontracts), insurance companies and private payers. A substantial portion of the Company's revenue is derived from subcontracts that the Company has with Medicare certified home health care agencies and long-term health care provider programs that subcontract our caregivers. From time to time, some of these agencies have requested bids from the home care agencies to which they subcontract. If the Company is not successful in maintaining these contracts as they come up for bid, it could have a materially adverse effect on the Company's results of operations. For the fiscal years ended July 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, the State of Connecticut Department of Social Services Medical Care Administration program accounted for 28%, 27% and 29%, respectively, of the Company's net patient revenue and the New Jersey Department of Human Services Division of Medical Assistance and Health Services program accounted for 12%, 9% and 7% respectively, of the Company's net patient revenue. The loss of or a significant adverse change in the business terms with either of the foregoing customers would have a material adverse effect on the Company. - 12 - GOVERNMENT REGULATION AND LICENSING The health care industry is highly regulated. The Company's business is subject to substantial and frequently changing regulations by federal, state and local authorities. The Company must comply with state licensing along with federal and state eligibility standards for certification as a Medicare and Medicaid provider. The ability of the Company to operate profitably will depend in part upon the Company obtaining and maintaining all necessary licenses and other approvals in compliance with applicable health care regulations. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act ("HIPAA") was enacted by the Federal government on August 12, 1996, and requires organizations to adhere to certain standards to protect data integrity, confidentiality and availability. HIPAA mandates, among other things, that the Department of Health and Human Services (the "DHHS") adopt standards for the exchange of electronic health information in an effort to encourage overall administrative simplification and enhance the effectiveness and efficiency of the health care industry. Organizations were required to be in compliance with certain HIPAA provisions relating to security and privacy beginning April 14, 2003. Organizations are subject to significant fines and penalties if found not to be compliant with the provisions outlined in the regulations. Regulations issued pursuant to HIPAA impose ongoing obligations relative to training, monitoring and enforcement, and management has implemented processes and procedures to ensure continued compliance with these regulations. Medicare. Title XVIII of the Social Security Act authorizes Part A of the Medicare program, the health insurance program that pays for home health care services for covered persons (typically, those aged 65 and older and long-term disabled). Home health care providers may participate in the Medicare program subject to certain conditions of participation and upon acceptance of a provider agreement by the Secretary of Health and Human Services. Only enumerated services, upon satisfaction of certain coverage criteria, are eligible for reimbursement as a Medicare provider. The Company is currently Medicare certified in Connecticut and Massachusetts. Approximately 6%, 5% and 5% of revenue for the fiscal years ended July 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, were derived from the Medicare program (see "Risk Factors -Risks Related to Federal and State Regulations" above for a discussion regarding the Company's participation in the Connecticut Medicare program). Medicare Fraud and Abuse. Provisions of the Social Security Act under Medicare and Medicaid generally prohibit soliciting, receiving, offering or paying, directly or indirectly, any form of remuneration in return for the referral of Medicare or state health care program patients or patient care opportunities, or in return for the purchase, lease or order of any facility item or service that is covered by Medicare or state health care program. The federal government has published regulations that provide exceptions, or "safe harbors", for business transactions that will be deemed not to violate the anti-kickback statute. Violations of the statute may result in civil and criminal penalties and exclusion from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The Company believes that its current operations are not in violation of the anti-kickback statute. Medicaid. Approximately 46%, 43% and 42% of revenue for the fiscal years ended July 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, were derived from state sponsored Medicaid programs. Reimbursement for home health care services rendered to eligible Medicaid recipients is made in an amount determined in accordance with procedures and standards established by state law under federal guidelines. States differ as to reimbursement policies and rates. The Company is a licensed Medicaid provider in Connecticut, New Jersey, Massachusetts and in Nassau and Westchester Counties, New York. Future Medicaid - 13 - reimbursement rates may be reduced in response to state economic and budgetary constraints, as well as in response to changes in the Medicare program (see "Risk Factors -Risks Related to Federal and State Regulations" above for a discussion regarding the Company's participation in the Connecticut Medicaid program). Surveys. In October 2004, New England was notified by the DPH of alleged lack of compliance with Medicare's Conditions of Participation. Also, in October 2004, New England received notice from DPH of alleged violation of Connecticut state regulations based on substantially the same grounds as stated above. Follow up surveys were concluded in November and December 2004. The November survey showed results similar to the October survey. The survey in December was concluded to the DPH's satisfaction. In February 2005, the DPH submitted a proposed Consent Order to New England. The Consent Order would resolve the pending allegations by the DPH, adopt certain policies substantially in accordance with the Plan of Correction and remain in effect for two years. The final terms of the Consent Order are still being discussed between the DPH and New England. Another Medicare Certification Survey was concluded in August 2005. That survey again alleged a lack of compliance. New England is currently awaiting the results of a follow up survey conducted in October 2005. A failure by New England to achieve Medicare certification would result in New England's termination from participating in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Revenues derived from New England's participation in these programs for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2005 were 33% of the Company's total revenues. Audit. In August 2005, the Connecticut Department of Social Services, Office of Quality Assurance (the "Department") performed an audit of Medical Assistance claims paid to New England covering the period April 1, 2003 through March 31, 2005. The audit included a review of relevant claim information maintained by the Department and a review of the appropriate medical and administrative records maintained by New England. New England received approximately $50,000,000 in reimbursement during the audit period. The Company is unable to quantify the liability that may arise from this audit. 