ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Statements contained in this Annual Report that are not historical facts or that discuss our expectations regarding our future operations or future financial performance or trends in our business constitute “forward-looking statements.” Forward-looking statements are estimates or predictions about our future financial performance or future financial condition, or are statements about financial or market trends that may affect our future results of operations. Such statements are based on current information and our business is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual operating results or our financial performance or condition in future periods to differ, possibly significantly, from our current expectations and beliefs that are set forth in the forward looking statements contained in this report. Those risks and uncertainties include, although they are not limited to, the following: Our Business is Seasonal and is Subject to Various Economic and Climatic Influences. Our sales are affected directly by the purchase and usage levels of RVs and boats. The purchase and usage of RVs and boats are affected by consumers’ level of discretionary income and their confidence about economic conditions; the availability and prices of gasoline; prevailing interest rates; and weather conditions. As a result, our future sales and earnings can be, and in the past have been, adversely affected by the following: • Loss of confidence among consumers regarding economic conditions and the onset of adverse economic conditions, which cause consumers to reduce their purchases and usage of RVs and boats; • Increases in the prices and shortages in the supply of gasoline, which increase the cost of using and, therefore, the willingness of consumers to purchase and use RVs and boats; • Increases in interest rates which affect the availability and affordability of financing for the purchase of RVs and boats and RV and boating accessories; • Unusually severe or extended winter weather conditions, which can reduce the usage of RVs and boats for periods extending beyond the ordinary winter months or to regions that ordinarily encounter milder winter weather conditions and which cause period-to-period fluctuations in our sales and financial performance. These conditions also often lead to increased price competition in our markets which could force us to reduce our prices, thereby reducing sales revenue and our gross profit margins and earnings. For a discussion of how these factors affected our results of operation in 2007, see “MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS” below, in Part II of this Report. Reliance on Sole Sources of Supply for Certain of our Products. We sometimes choose to carry only a single manufacturer’s products for certain of the third party brand-name product lines that we sell. In addition, we obtain each of our proprietary products from a single source manufacturer, although in many instances we own the tooling required for their manufacture. Dependence on a single manufacturer for any product or line of related products, however, presents some risks, including the risk that we will be unable to 6 Table of Contents readily obtain alternative product supply sources in the event that a single source supplier (i) encounters quality or other manufacturing problems, or (ii) decides to enter into an exclusive supply arrangement or alliance with a competing distributor, or to vertically integrate its operations to include not only manufacturing, but also distribution, of its products. If any of our single source suppliers were to encounter any manufacturing problems or disruptions or terminate our supply relationship, our sales and earnings could decline, possibly to a significant extent. The Effects of Possible Changes in Supply Relationships in Our Markets. As is the customary practice in our markets, in most instances we do not have long term supply contracts with our product suppliers. As a result, product suppliers are free to change the terms on which they sell us products or to discontinue supplying us with products altogether, because they may choose to distribute their products directly to after-market dealers or because they might choose to establish exclusive supply relationships with other distributors. Additionally, manufacturers of new RVs and boats may choose to incorporate optional equipment on their RVs and boats at the time of manufacture that, historically were provided to their dealers by distributors such as the Company. Any of these occurrences could result in increased competition in our markets or could reduce the number of products we are able to offer our customers, which could cause our sales to decline and could result in lower margins and in reduced earnings. We Rely Heavily on Bank Borrowings in the Operation of our Business. We rely heavily on bank borrowings to fund our working capital requirements and capital expenditures. Our outstanding borrowings create additional risks for our business. Among other things, we may find it more difficult to obtain additional financing to fund expansion or take advantage of other business opportunities, and we use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay the principal of and interest on our debt. Our existing debt also makes us more vulnerable to general economic downturns and competitive pressures, which could cause us to fail to meet financial covenants in our bank loan agreement and, as discussed in the Section of this Report entitled “MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS,” the interest we have to pay on such debt impacts our operating results. Risks Related to New Proprietary Products Strategy. We have begun sourcing and buying from overseas manufacturers and marketing and selling new products, such as portable and standby generators, into new markets. We do not have the same level of experience in those markets and there is no assurance that these products will gain acceptance among customers in those markets. We also expect to encounter stiff competition from companies that manufacture or market competing products for those same markets. We expect that many of those companies will be larger, more established and better known and will have greater financial and marketing resources than we have. Also, we have greater responsibilities in marketing and providing warranty protection and service for these products, as compared to the products we source from traditional suppliers for resale in the RV or boating markets. There is no assurance that we will be successful in marketing and selling these products, and the costs we incur in doing so may reduce our earnings or possibly even cause us to incur losses and we could incur liabilities for possible warranty claims related to these products. Increased Reliance on Foreign Suppliers. As we increase our reliance on foreign suppliers, we may become increasingly vulnerable to the effects of political instability and adverse economic conditions in the countries in which those suppliers are located. Additionally, while we pay for the products we purchase in foreign countries in U.S. Dollars, and therefore, those purchases do not expose us to currency exchange risks, a weakening U.S. Dollar may lead foreign suppliers to increase the prices they charge us for their products in order to mitigate their currency exchange risk. Such price increases could reduce the margin advantage that we have realized on our resale of those products. Product Liability Risks. Although we do not manufacture any of the products we sell, it is not uncommon for us to be named as an additional defendant in product liability lawsuits brought against the manufacturers of the products we sell. To protect ourselves from liability, we have been able in many instances to obtain indemnification agreements from these manufacturers or to be named as additional insureds under their product liability insurance policies. Nevertheless, we also maintain our own product liability insurance. We also conduct quality control testing, at our own product testing laboratories in the United States, of proprietary products that we import from Asia. However, although we have never incurred any material product liabilities in excess of the insurance coverages that we have obtained under policies of insurance maintained either by product manufacturers or by us, there is no assurance that we will not incur, in the future, product liabilities in amounts that materially exceed the insurance coverage and indemnification protections that we have and which, as a result, could reduce our earnings. 7 Table of Contents Risks of Patent Infringement Claims. We design, or have independent product design firms or manufacturers, design and engineer many of the proprietary products and foreign sourced products that we introduce into the marketplace. From time to time manufacturers of competing products have threatened and on occasion have brought suits against us claiming that some of our proprietary or foreign sourced products infringe their patents. We retain a patent law firm to review new products that we plan to introduce into the market for potential patent infringements and that firm works in concert with our product design engineers and independent design firms or manufacturers to ensure that our products do not infringe on patents or other proprietary rights held by competitors. To date we have not incurred any material liability as a result of any patent infringement claims that have been threatened or asserted against us. However, there can be no assurance that we will not incur liability for patent infringement in the future. Additionally, the filing of a patent infringement suit may require us to halt sales or to redesign newly introduced products to avoid patent infringement liability, which could reduce our sales and increase our costs and, thereby, adversely affect our results of operations. No Assurance that We Will Be Able to Fund Cash Dividends Pursuant to our Dividend Policy. Although the Board of Directors has adopted a cash dividend policy that provides for regular quarterly cash dividends of $0.07 per share, the payment of cash dividends in the future will depend on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, our future financial performance, our available cash resources and the cash requirements of our business and, possibly also, the consents of third parties, such as the lender under our revolving credit facility. As a result, there can be no assurance that future quarterly cash dividends will continue to be equal to the $0.07 per share called for by our current dividend policy or that we will not find it necessary to suspend or even terminate the payment of cash dividends in the future. Additional uncertainties and risks that could affect our future financial performance or future financial condition are discussed above in Part I of this Report, entitled “BUSINESS” and in “MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION” below, in Part II of this Report, and you are urged to read those sections as well. Due to these and other possible uncertainties and risks, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements contained in this Report, which speak only as of the date of this Annual Report. We also disclaim any obligation to update forward-looking information contained in this Report, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 8 Table of Contents 