Item 1A. Risk Factors” for further discussion of some of these factors. Except as required by the federal securities laws, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or review any forward-looking information, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. If one or more forward-looking statements are updated, no inference should be drawn that additional updates will be made with respect to those or other forward-looking statements. PART I Throughout this document, the terms “we,” “us,” and “our” refer to IPALCO Enterprises, Inc. (“IPALCO”) and its consolidated subsidiaries. IPALCO is wholly-owned by AES. For a list of other abbreviations or acronyms used in this report, see “Item 1C. Defined Terms.” ITEM 1. BUSINESS OVERVIEW IPALCO is a holding company incorporated under the laws of the state of Indiana in 1983. Our principal subsidiary is Indianapolis Power & Light Company, a regulated electric utility with its customer base concentrated in Indianapolis, Indiana. Substantially all of our business consists of the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electric energy conducted through IPL. Our other direct subsidiary, Mid-America Capital Resources, Inc. (“Mid-America”) is the holding company for our unregulated activities. Mid-America’s only significant investment is a small minority ownership interest in EnerTech Capital Partners II L.P., a venture capital fund, with a recorded value of $3.5 million, as of December 31, 2010. Our total electric revenues and net income for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010 were $1.1 billion and $79.9 million, respectively. The book value of our total assets as of December 31, 2010 was $3.1 billion. All of our operations are conducted within the United States of America in the state of Indiana. Please see Note 15, “Segment Information” to the audited Consolidated Financial Statements of IPALCO in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” included in this Form 10-K. Our principal executive offices are located at One Monument Circle, Indianapolis, Indiana 46204, and our telephone number is (317) 261-8261. Our internet website address is www.iplpower.com. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this report. INDIANAPOLIS POWER & LIGHT COMPANY IPALCO owns all of the outstanding common stock of IPL. IPL was incorporated under the laws of the state of Indiana in 1926. IPL is engaged primarily in generating, transmitting, distributing and selling electric energy to approximately 470,000 retail customers in the city of Indianapolis and neighboring areas within Indiana; the most distant point being approximately 40 miles from Indianapolis. IPL has an exclusive right to provide electric service to those customers. IPL’s service area covers about 528 square miles with an estimated population of approximately 895,000. IPL owns and operates four generating stations. Two of the generating stations are primarily coal-fired stations. A third station has a combination of units that use coal (base load capacity) and natural gas and/or oil (peaking capacity) for fuel to produce electricity. The fourth station is a small peaking station that uses gas-fired combustion turbine technology for the production of electricity. IPL’s net electric generation capability for winter is 3,492 Megawatt (“MW”) and net summer capability is 3,353 MW. IPL’s generation, transmission and distribution facilities are further described under “Item 2. Properties.” There have been no significant changes in the services rendered by IPL during 2010. The electric utility business is affected by seasonal weather patterns throughout the year and, therefore, the operating revenues and associated operating expenses are not generated evenly by month during the year. IPL’s business is not dependent on any single customer or group of customers. Additionally, retail kilowatt hour sales, after adjustments for weather variations, are impacted by growth in service territory economic activity as well as the number of retail customers we have. During the past 10 years, IPL’s retail Kilowatt hours (“kWh”) sales have grown at a compound annual rate of 0.4%. During the same period, our number of retail customers grew at a compound annual rate of 0.7%. Going forward, retail kWh sales growth is expected to be negatively impacted by our demand-side management programs. Please see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Regulatory Matters - Demand-Side Management” for more details. IPL’s electricity sales for 2006 through 2010 are set forth in the table of statistical information included at the end of this section. IPL is a transmission company member of ReliabilityFirst Corporation (“RFC”), which began operations on January 1, 2006. RFC is one of eight Regional Reliability Councils under the North American Electric Reliability Corporation, which has been designated as the Electric Reliability Organization under the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (“EPAct”). The mission of RFC is to preserve and enhance bulk power system reliability and security for the interconnected electric systems within the RFC geographic area by setting and enforcing electric reliability standards. RFC members cooperate under agreements to augment the reliability of its members’ electricity supply systems in the RFC region through coordination of the planning and operation of the members’ generation and transmission facilities. Small electric utility systems, independent power producers and power marketers can participate as full members of RFC. In addition, we are one of many transmission owners of the Midwest ISO (see “Industry Matters - Midwest ISO Operations”), a regional transmission organization which maintains functional control over the combined transmission systems of its members and manages one of the largest energy markets in the U.S. IPL participates in the Midwest ISO’s Energy and Operating Reserves Markets and each Asset Owner receives separate Day-Ahead, Real-Time, and Financial Transmission Rights market Settlement Statements for each operating day. REGULATORY MATTERS Regulation We are subject to regulation by the IURC with respect to the following: our services and facilities; the valuation of property, the construction, purchase, or lease of electric generating facilities; the classification of accounts; rates of depreciation; retail rates and charges; the issuance of securities (other than evidences of indebtedness payable less than twelve months after the date of issue); the acquisition and sale of some public utility properties or securities; and certain other matters. The regulatory power of the IURC over our business is both comprehensive and typical of the traditional form of regulation generally imposed by state public utility commissions. In addition, we are subject to the jurisdiction of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC”) with respect to, among other things, short-term borrowing not regulated by the IURC, the sale of electricity at wholesale and the transmission of electric energy in interstate commerce, the classification of accounts, reliability standards, and the acquisition and sale of utility property in certain circumstances as provided by the Federal Power Act. As a regulated entity, IPL is required to use certain accounting methods prescribed by regulatory bodies which may differ from those accounting methods required to be used by non-regulated entities. We maintain our books and records consistent with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States reflecting the impact of regulation. See Note 2, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to the audited Consolidated Financial Statements of IPALCO in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” included in this Form 10-K. We are also affected by the regulatory jurisdiction of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”), at the federal level, and Indiana Department of Environmental Management, at the state level. Other significant regulatory agencies affecting us include, but are not limited to, the North American Electric Reliability Corporation, the U.S. Department of Labor, and the Indiana Occupational Safety and Health Administration. Please see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Regulatory Matters” for a more comprehensive discussion of regulatory matters impacting us. Retail Ratemaking Our tariff rates for electric service to retail customers consist of basic rates and charges which are set and approved by the IURC after public hearings. In addition, our rates include various adjustment mechanisms including, but not limited to, those to reflect changes in fuel costs to generate electricity or purchased power prices, referred to as Fuel Adjustment Charges (“FAC”) and for the timely recovery of costs incurred to comply with environmental laws and regulations referred to as Environmental Compliance Cost Recovery Adjustment (“ECCRA”). Each of our tariff rate components may be set and approved by the IURC in separate proceedings at different points in time. These components function somewhat independently of one another, but would all be subject to review at the time of any review of our basic rates and charges. For example, FAC proceedings occur on a quarterly basis and the ECCRA proceedings occur on a semi-annual basis. Please see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Regulatory Matters” for further discussion of our basic rates and the various adjustment mechanisms and for a discussion of a recent review of IPL by the IURC. INDUSTRY MATTERS Energy Policy Act of 2005 In 2005, the EPAct was signed into law. Much of the legislation directs the FERC, the Department of Energy and other agencies to develop rules for the implementation of the EPAct. The EPAct implementation process at the FERC and the IURC is ongoing and we are actively engaged in the process. The EPAct contains provisions specifically related to the electric utility industry including, but not limited to, the following: climate change issues, mandatory reliability standards, amendments to the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act, repeal of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, establishment of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005, clean power initiatives, and energy efficiency proposals. IPALCO is currently exempt from the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005. The EPAct established the creation of an Electric Reliability Organization and provided the FERC the authority to approve mandatory and enforceable reliability standards. Enforcement of the reliability standards is the responsibility of the North American Electric Reliability Corporation as the designated Electric Reliability Organization. To date, compliance with these standards has not resulted in a material impact to our financial statements, but there can be no guarantee that will be the case in future periods. We will continue to monitor any revisions to the reliability standards and will continue working toward assuring full compliance with all applicable reliability standards. Midwest ISO Operations We are a member of the Midwest ISO. Midwest ISO serves as the third-party operator of our transmission system and runs the day-ahead and real-time Energy Market and, beginning in January 2009, the Ancillary Services Market (“ASM”) for its members. Midwest ISO policies are developed through a stakeholder process in which we are an active participant. We focus our participation in this process primarily on items that could impact our customers, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Additionally, we attempt to influence Midwest ISO policy by filing comments with the FERC. We have transferred functional control of our transmission facilities to the Midwest ISO and our transmission operations are integrated with those of the Midwest ISO. Our participation and authority to sell wholesale power at market based rates are subject to the FERC jurisdiction. Transmission service over our facilities is now provided through the Midwest ISO’s tariff. As a member of the Midwest ISO market, we offer our generation and bid our demand into the market on an hourly basis. The Midwest ISO settles energy hourly offers and bids based on locational marginal prices, which is pricing for energy at a given location based on a market clearing price that takes into account physical limitations, generation and demand, throughout the Midwest ISO region. The Midwest ISO evaluates the market participants’ energy offers and demand bids optimizing for energy products to economically and reliably dispatch the entire Midwest ISO system. The Midwest ISO also facilitates the ASM in conjunction with the Energy Market. Under the ASM, the Midwest ISO evaluates the market participants’ ancillary services offers and demand bids optimizing for all ancillary services products to economically and reliably dispatch the entire Midwest ISO system. The IURC has authorized IPL to recover the fuel portion of its costs from the Midwest ISO, including all specifically identifiable ASM costs, through FAC proceedings, and to defer certain operational, administrative and other costs from the Midwest ISO and seek recovery in IPL’s next basic rate case proceeding. Total Midwest ISO costs deferred as long-term regulatory assets were $71.0 million and $62.8 million as of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively. We have preserved our right to withdraw from the Midwest ISO by tendering our Notice of Withdrawal (subject to the FERC and the IURC approval). We have made no decision to seek withdrawal from the Midwest ISO at this time. We will continue to assess the relative costs and benefits of being a Midwest ISO member, as well as actively advocate for our positions through the existing Midwest ISO stakeholder process and in filings at FERC. Please see also, “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Regulatory Matters.” ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS We are subject to various federal, state, regional and local environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things, the generation, storage, handling, use, disposal and transportation of hazardous materials; the emission and discharge of hazardous and other materials into the environment; and the health and safety of our employees. These laws and regulations often require a lengthy and complex process of obtaining and renewing permits and other governmental authorizations from federal, state and local agencies. Violation of these laws, regulations or permits can result in substantial fines, other sanctions, suspension or revocation of permits and/or facility shutdowns. Environmental Matters in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” describes potential legislation that we believe may be significant to our business as well as a Notice of Violation (“NOV”) and Finding of Violation from the EPA pursuant to the Clean Air Act Section 113(a). This NOV from the EPA may result in a fine and/or costs associated with the installation of additional pollution control technology systems and/or supplemental environmental projects, which could be material. We do not believe any other currently open environmental investigations will result in fines, penalties or other costs material to our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. FUEL More than 99% of the total kWhs produced by us was generated from coal in each of 2010, 2009, and 2008. Our existing coal contracts provide for substantially all of our current projected coal requirements in 2011 and approximately 85% for the three year period ending December 31, 2013. We have long-term coal contracts with five suppliers. Approximately 45% of our existing coal under contract comes from one supplier. Pricing provisions in some of our long-term coal contracts allow for price changes under certain circumstances. Substantially all of the coal is currently mined in the state of Indiana. All coal currently burned by us and under purchase contracts is mined by third parties. Our goal is to carry a 25-50 day system supply of coal and fuel oil to offset unforeseen occurrences such as equipment breakdowns and transportation or mine delays. EMPLOYEES As of January 31, 2011, IPL had 1,457 employees of whom 1,396 were full time. Of the total employees, 917 were represented by the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers in two bargaining units: a physical unit and a clerical-technical unit. As of January 31, 2011, neither IPALCO nor any of its subsidiaries other than IPL had any employees. STATISTICAL INFORMATION ON OPERATIONS The following table of statistical information presents additional data on our operations: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Operating Revenues (In Thousands): Residential $ 427,899 $ 392,181 $ 390,892 $ 377,081 $ 363,668 Small commercial and industrial 170,345 160,814 165,660 160,456 155,314 Large commercial and industrial 455,458 436,060 435,578 416,694 418,782 Public Lighting 10,857 11,093 10,973 11,221 11,160 Miscellaneous 19,380 17,778 18,554 18,809 22,678 Revenues - retail customers 1,083,939 1,017,926 1,021,657 984,261 971,602 Wholesale 60,964 50,155 57,456 68,366 60,449 Total electric revenues $ 1,144,903 $ 1,068,081 $ 1,079,113 $ 1,052,627 $ 1,032,051 kWh Sales (In Millions): Residential 5,501 5,085 5,350 5,467 5,027 Small commercial and industrial 1,957 1,892 2,030 2,101 1,989 Large commercial and industrial 7,086 7,041 7,550 7,683 7,627 Public Lighting 65 68 73 77 73 Sales - retail customers 14,609 14,086 15,003 15,328 14,716 Wholesale 1,928 1,881 1,189 1,640 1,571 Total kWh sold 16,537 15,967 16,192 16,968 16,287 Retail Customers at End of Year: Residential 416,276 416,500 416,019 417,227 417,249 Small commercial and industrial 46,844 46,708 46,719 46,749 46,316 Large commercial and industrial 4,628 4,625 4,610 4,559 4,509 Public Lighting 948 940 905 813 793 Total retail customers 468,696 468,773 468,253 469,348 468,867 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investors should consider carefully the following risk factors that could cause our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows to be materially adversely affected. New risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our business or financial performance. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other detailed information concerning IPALCO and IPL set forth in the Notes to audited Consolidated Financial Statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” and in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” herein. Our electric generating facilities are subject to operational risks that could result in: unscheduled plant outages, unanticipated operation and/or maintenance expenses, increased fuel or purchased power costs, and other significant liabilities for which we may or may not have adequate insurance coverage. We operate coal, oil and natural gas generating facilities, which involve certain risks that can adversely affect energy costs, output and efficiency levels. These risks include: increased prices for fuel and fuel transportation as existing contracts expire or are adjusted through price re-opener provisions; unit or facility shutdowns due to a breakdown or failure of equipment or processes; disruptions in the availability or delivery of fuel and lack of adequate inventories; labor disputes; reliability of our suppliers; inability to comply with regulatory or permit requirements; disruptions in the delivery of electricity; the availability of qualified personnel; operator error; and catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, terrorist acts, acts of war, pandemic events, or natural disasters such as floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, ice storms, or other similar occurrences affecting our generating facilities. The above risks could result in unscheduled plant outages, unanticipated operation and/or maintenance expenses, increased capital expenditures, and/or increased fuel and purchased power costs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. If unexpected plant outages occur frequently and/or for extended periods of time, this could result in adverse regulatory action. Additionally, as a result of the above risks and other potential hazards associated with the power generation industries, we may from time to time become exposed to significant liabilities for which we may not have adequate insurance coverage. Power generation involves hazardous activities, including acquiring, transporting and unloading fuel, operating large pieces of rotating equipment and delivering electricity to transmission and distribution systems. In addition to natural risks, such as earthquakes, floods, lightning, tornadoes, ice storms and wind, hazards, such as fire, explosion, collapse and machinery failure are inherent risks in our operations which may occur as a result of inadequate internal processes, technological flaws, human error or certain external events. The control and management of these risks depend upon adequate development and training of personnel and on the existence of operational procedures, preventative maintenance plans and specific programs supported by quality control systems which reduce, but do not eliminate the possibility of the occurrence and impact of these risks. The hazardous activities described above can also cause significant personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property, plant and equipment, contamination of, or damage to, the environment and suspension of operations. The occurrence of any one of these events may result in us being named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting claims for substantial damages, environmental cleanup costs, personal injury and fines and/or penalties. We maintain an amount of insurance protection that we believe is adequate, but there can be no assurance that our insurance will be sufficient or effective under all circumstances and against all hazards or liabilities to which we may be subject. A successful claim for which we are not fully insured could hurt our financial results and materially harm our financial condition. Further, due to rising insurance costs and changes in the insurance markets, we cannot provide assurance that insurance coverage will continue to be available on terms similar to those presently available to us or at all. Any such losses not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We may not always be able to recover our costs to provide electricity to our retail customers. We are currently obligated to supply electric energy to retail customers in our service territory. From time to time and because of unforeseen circumstances, the demand for electric energy required to meet these obligations could exceed our available electric generating capability. When our retail customer demand exceeds our generating capacity for units operating under Midwest ISO economic dispatch, recovery of our cost to purchase electric energy in the Midwest ISO market to meet that demand is subject to a stipulation and settlement agreement. The agreement includes a benchmark which compares hourly purchased power costs to daily natural gas prices. Purchased power costs above the benchmark must meet certain criteria in order for us to fully recover them from our retail customers, such as consideration of the capacity of units available but not selected by the Midwest ISO economic dispatch. As a result, we may not always have the ability to pass all of the purchased power costs on to our customers, and even if we are able to do so, there may be a significant delay between the time the costs are incurred and the time the costs are recovered. Since these situations most often occur during periods of peak demand, the market price for electric energy at the time we purchase it could be very high under these circumstances, and we may not be allowed to recover all of such costs through our FAC. Even if a supply shortage was brief, we could suffer substantial losses that could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Please see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Regulatory Matters - Fuel Adjustment Charge and Authorized Annual Jurisdictional Net Operating Income” for additional details regarding the benchmark and the process to recover fuel costs. Our transmission and distribution system is subject to reliability and capacity risks. The on-going reliable performance of our transmission and distribution system is subject to risks due to, among other things, weather damage, intentional or unintentional damage, plant outages, labor disputes, operator error, or inoperability of key infrastructure internal or external to us. The failure of our transmission and distribution system to fully deliver the energy demanded by customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows, and if such failures occur frequently and/or for extended periods of time, could result in adverse regulatory action. In addition, the advent and quick adaptation of new products and services that require increased levels of electrical energy cannot be predicted and could result in insufficient transmission and distribution system capacity. As with all utilities, potential concern over transmission capacity could result in the Midwest ISO, or the FERC requiring us to upgrade or expand our transmission system through additional capital expenditures. Substantially all of our electricity is generated by coal and approximately 45% of our supply of coal comes from one supplier. Please see “Item 1. Business - Fuel” for a discussion of concentration risks associated with coal. Catastrophic events could adversely affect our facilities, systems and operations. Catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, terrorist acts, acts of war, pandemic events, or natural disasters such as floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, ice storms or other similar occurrences could adversely affect our generation facilities, transmission and distribution systems, operations, earnings and cash flow. Our Petersburg Plant, which is our largest source of generating capacity, is located in the Wabash Valley seismic zone, adjacent to the New Madrid seismic zone, areas of significant seismic activity in the central United States. Our business is sensitive to weather and seasonal variations. Our business is affected by variations in general weather conditions and unusually severe weather. As a result of these factors, the operating revenues and associated operating expenses are not generated evenly by month during the year. We forecast electric sales on the basis of normal weather, which represents a long-term historical average. Significant variations from normal weather (such as warmer winters and cooler summers) could have a material impact on our revenue, operating income and net income and cash flows. Storms that interrupt services to our customers have required us in the past, and may require us in the future, to incur significant costs to restore services. The electricity business is highly regulated and any changes in regulations, or adverse regulatory action, could reduce revenues or increase costs. As an electric utility, we are subject to extensive regulation at both the federal and state level. At the federal level, we are regulated by the FERC and the North American Electric Reliability Corporation and, at the state level, we are regulated by the IURC. The regulatory power of the IURC over IPL is both comprehensive and typical of the traditional form of regulation generally imposed by state public utility commissions. We face the risk of unexpected or adverse regulatory action. Regulatory discretion is reasonably broad in Indiana. We are subject to regulation by the IURC as to our services and facilities, the valuation of property, the construction, purchase, or lease of electric generating facilities, the classification of accounts, rates of depreciation, the increase or decrease in retail rates and charges, the issuance of securities (other than evidences of indebtedness payable less than twelve months after the date of issue), the acquisition and sale of some public utility properties or securities and certain other matters. Our tariff rates for electric service to retail customers consist of basic rates and charges and various adjustment mechanisms which are set and approved by the IURC after public hearings. Pursuant to statute, the IURC is to conduct a periodic review of the basic rates and charges of all Indiana utilities at least once every four years, but the IURC has the authority to review the rates of any Indiana utility at any time. Proceedings to review our basic rates and charges, which were last adjusted in 1996, involve IPL, the Indiana Office of Utility Consumer Counselor and other interested consumer groups and customers. In addition, we must seek approval from the IURC through such public proceedings of our tracking mechanism factors to reflect changes in our fuel costs to generate electricity or purchased power costs and for the timely recovery of costs incurred during construction and operation of Clean Coal Technology (“CCT”) facilities constructed to comply with environmental laws and regulations and for certain other costs. There can be no assurance that we will be granted approval of tracking mechanism factors that we request from the IURC. The failure of the IURC to approve any requested relief, or any other adverse rate determination by the IURC could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. In recent years, federal and state regulation of electric utilities has changed dramatically, and the pace of regulatory change is likely to pick up in coming years. As a result of the EPAct and subsequent legislation affecting the electric utility industry, we have been required to comply with new rules and regulations in areas including mandatory reliability standards, cyber security, transmission expansion and energy efficiency. These rules and regulations are, for the most part, still in their infancy. Regulatory agencies at the state and federal level are in the process of implementation. While we have complied with these rules and regulations to date without significant impact on our business, we are currently unable to predict the long term impact, if any, to our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Independent of the IURC’s ability to review basic rates and charges, Indiana law requires electric utilities under the jurisdiction of the IURC to meet operating expense and income test requirements as a condition for approval of requested changes in FAC. Additionally, customer refunds may result if a utility’s rolling twelve month operating income, determined at quarterly measurement dates, exceeds a utility’s authorized annual jurisdictional net operating income and there are not sufficient applicable cumulative net operating income deficiencies against which the excess rolling twelve month jurisdictional net operating income can be offset. Over the past few years, IPL has received correspondence from the IURC on a few occasions expressing concern for IPL’s level of earnings and inquiring about IPL’s depreciation rates. In response, IPL provided additional information to the IURC relevant to IPL’s earnings as well as the results of a depreciation analysis that IPL conducted. In the fourth quarter of 2010, IPL received a letter from the IURC stating that they did not have any additional questions. Additionally, in February 2009, an IPL customer sent a letter to The Indiana Office of Utility Consumer Counselor claiming IPL’s tree trimming practices were unreasonable and expressed concerns with language contained in IPL’s tariff that specifically addressed IPL’s tree trimming and tree removal rights. The Indiana Office of Utility Consumer Counselor forwarded the complaint to the IURC and in March 2009 the IURC initiated a docketed proceeding to investigate the matter. The same customer also separately filed an inverse condemnation lawsuit, purportedly as a class action, claiming that IPL’s trimming and/or removal of trees without compensation to landowners constituted unconstitutional taking of private property. In April 2009, the IURC initiated a generic state-wide investigation into electric utility tree trimming practices and tariffs. In December 2009, the IURC issued a docket entry, pending a final order in the generic investigation, that suspended certain language in IPL’s tariff regarding its right to trim or remove trees. In January 2010, the IURC held a hearing in the generic proceeding. On November 30, 2010, the IURC entered an order in the investigation. The order permanently redacted the language in IPL’s tariff that was previously suspended. The order imposed requirements on the conduct of vegetation management, including requirements on providing advance customer notice and obtaining customer consent or additional easements if existing easements and rights of way are insufficient to permit pruning in accordance with the required industry standards or in the event that a tree would need to have more than 25% of its canopy removed. The order also directed that a rulemaking would be initiated to further address vegetation management practices. In December 2010, notices of appeal and petitions for reconsideration, clarification and/or rehearing were filed by multiple parties, including IPL. In February 2011, the Indiana Court of Appeals remanded the matter to the IURC and dismissed IPL's apeal without prejudice to allow the IURC to enter a final order. After that, IPL may appeal the final order. There has been very little activity in the civil suit during the IURC proceeding. It is not possible to predict the outcome of the IURC investigation, the related request for reconsideration or the civil suit but, conceivably, these proceedings could significantly increase our vegetation management costs and the costs of defending our vegetation management program in litigation which could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. Our participation in the Midwest ISO network involves risks. We are a member of the Midwest ISO, a FERC approved regional transmission organization. The Midwest ISO serves the electrical transmission needs of much of the Midwest and maintains functional operational control over our electric transmission facilities as well as that of the other Midwest utility members of the Midwest ISO. We retain control over our distribution facilities. As a result of membership in the Midwest ISO and their operational control, our continued ability to import power, when necessary, and export power to the wholesale market has been, and may continue to be, impacted. We offer our generation and bid our load into this market on a day-ahead basis and settle differences in real time. Given the nature of the Midwest ISO’s policies regarding use of transmission facilities, and its administration of the energy and ancillary services markets, it is difficult to predict near term operational impacts. We cannot assure the Midwest ISO’s reliable operation of the regional transmission system, nor the impact of its operation of the energy and ancillary services markets. At the federal level, there are business risks for us associated with multiple proceedings pending before the FERC related to our membership and participation in the Midwest ISO. These proceedings involve such issues as transmission rates, construction of new transmission facilities, evolving methodologies for socialized costs of regional transmission facilities, and MISO administered standards for resource adequacy including sanctions for non-compliance and forecasting error. To the extent that we rely, at least in part, on the performance of the Midwest ISO to maintain the reliability of our transmission system, it puts us at some risk for the performance of the Midwest ISO. In addition, actions taken by the Midwest ISO to secure the reliable operation of the entire transmission system operated by the Midwest ISO could result in voltage reductions, rolling blackouts, or sustained system wide blackouts on IPL’s transmission and distribution system, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows. (See also “Item 1. Business - Industry Matters - Midwest ISO Operations” and “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Regulatory Matters.”) Our ownership by AES subjects us to potential risks that are beyond our control. All of IPL’s common stock is owned by IPALCO, all of whose common stock is owned by AES. The interests of AES may differ from the interests of IPALCO, IPL or any of their creditors or other stakeholders. Further, due to our relationship with AES, any adverse developments and announcements concerning them may affect our ability to access the capital markets and to otherwise conduct business. In particular, downgrades in AES’s credit ratings could likely result in IPL or IPALCO’s credit ratings being downgraded. IPL’s common stock is pledged to secure certain indebtedness of IPALCO, and IPALCO’s common stock is pledged to secure certain indebtedness of AES. IPALCO is a holding company and is dependent on IPL for dividends to meet its debt service obligations. IPALCO is a holding company with no material assets other than the common stock of its subsidiaries, and accordingly all cash is generated by the operating activities of our subsidiaries, principally IPL. None of IPALCO’s subsidiaries, including IPL, is obligated to make any payments with respect to its $375 million of 8.625% (original coupon 7.625%) Senior Secured Notes due November 14, 2011 (“2011 IPALCO Notes”) and $400 million of 7.25% Senior Secured Notes due April 1, 2016 (“2016 IPALCO Notes”); however, the common stock of IPL is pledged to secure payment of these notes. Accordingly, IPALCO’s ability to make payments on the 2011 IPALCO Notes and the 2016 IPALCO Notes is dependent not only on the ability of IPL to generate cash in the future, but also on the ability of IPL to distribute cash to IPALCO. IPL’s mortgage and deed of trust, its amended articles of incorporation and its Credit Agreement contain restrictions on IPL’s ability to issue certain securities or pay cash dividends to IPALCO. For example, there are restrictions on the maintenance of a leverage ratio and interest coverage ratio which could limit the ability of IPL or IPALCO to pay dividends. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources” for a discussion of these restrictions. See Note 10, “Indebtedness” to the audited Consolidated Financial Statements of IPALCO in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” included in this Form 10-K for information regarding indebtedness. We rely on access to the capital markets. General economic conditions and disruptions in the financial markets could adversely affect our ability to raise capital on favorable terms or at all, and cause increases in our interest expense. From time to time we rely on access to capital markets as a source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by operating cash flows. In recent years the financial markets have experienced unprecedented volatility, which has reduced the availability of capital and credit. In 2010, the financial markets stabilized, but it is not possible to predict if and when and to what extent conditions will continue to improve, or if they could worsen. It is possible that our ability to raise capital on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected, and we may be unable to access adequate funding to refinance our debt as it becomes due or finance capital expenditures. In particular the 2011 IPALCO Notes mature November 14, 2011 in the principal amount of $375 million. Our ability to refinance this debt and other obligations will depend on several factors, including our operating cash flows, the overall demand in the credit markets, our credit ratings, credit capacity, the cost of financing, and other general economic and business conditions. It may also depend on the performance of counterparties and financial institutions with which we do business. See Note 10, “Indebtedness” to the audited Consolidated Financial Statements of IPALCO in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” included in this Form 10-K for information regarding indebtedness. See also “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk - Credit Market Risk” for information related to credit market risks. The level of our indebtedness, and the security provided for this indebtedness, could adversely affect our financial flexibility. As of December 31, 2010, we had on a consolidated basis $1.8 billion of indebtedness and total common shareholder’s deficit of $4.7 million. IPL had $837.7 million of First Mortgage Bonds outstanding as of December 31, 2010, which are secured by the pledge of substantially all of the assets of IPL under the terms of IPL’s mortgage and deed of trust. IPL also had $100 million of unsecured indebtedness. This level of indebtedness and related security could have important consequences, including the following: increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund other corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds, as needed. We expect to incur additional debt in the future, subject to the terms of our debt agreements and regulatory approvals for any IPL debt. To the extent we become more leveraged, the risks described above would increase. Further, our actual cash requirements in the future may be greater than expected. Accordingly, our cash flow from operations may not be sufficient to repay at maturity all of the outstanding debt as it becomes due and, in that event, we may not be able to borrow money, sell assets or otherwise raise funds on acceptable terms or at all to refinance our debt as it becomes due. For a further discussion of outstanding debt, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Current and future conditions in the economy may adversely affect our customers, suppliers and counterparties, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows have been and will continue to be affected by general economic conditions. As a result of slowing global economic growth, the credit market crisis, declining consumer and business confidence, fluctuating commodity prices, and other challenges currently affecting the general economy, some of our customers have experienced and may continue to experience deterioration of their businesses, cash flow shortages, and difficulty obtaining financing. As a result, existing customers may reduce their electricity consumption and may not be able to fulfill their payment obligations to us in the normal, timely fashion. In addition, some existing commercial and industrial customers may discontinue their operations. Projects which may result in potential new customers will likely be delayed until economic conditions improve. At times, we may utilize forward contracts to manage the risk associated with power purchases and wholesale power sales, and could be exposed to counterparty credit risk in these contracts. Further, some of our suppliers, customers and other counterparties, and others with whom we transact business may be experiencing financial difficulties, which may impact their ability to fulfill their obligations to us. For example, our counterparties on the interest rate swap, forward purchase contracts, and financial institutions involved in our credit facility may become unable to fulfill their contractual obligations. We may not be able to enter into replacement agreements on terms as favorable as our existing agreements. If the general economic slowdown continues for significant periods or deteriorates significantly, our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In particular, the projected economic growth and total employment in Indianapolis are important to the realization of our forecasts for annual energy sales growth. Wholesale power marketing activities may add volatility to earnings. We engage in wholesale power marketing activities that primarily involve the offering of utility-owned or contracted generation into the MISO hourly and real time markets. As part of these strategies, we may also execute energy contracts that are integrated with portfolio requirements around power supply and delivery. The earnings from wholesale marketing activities may vary based on fluctuating prices for electricity and the amount of electric generating capacity or purchased power available, beyond that needed to meet firm service requirements. In order to reduce the risk of volatility in earnings from wholesale marketing activities, we may at times enter into forward contracts to hedge such risk. If we do not accurately forecast future commodities prices or if our hedging procedures do not operate as planned we may experience losses. We used such hedges on a fairly limited basis in 2010 with no material impact to earnings and as of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, no such hedges were in place. In addition, under the current Midwest ISO market rules (which are under review), the introduction of additional renewable energy into the Midwest ISO market could have the affect of reducing the demand for wholesale energy from other sources. Under these rules, renewable energy sources are given priority in the Midwest ISO market as “must run” units. The additional generation produced by renewable energy sources could have the impact of reducing market prices for energy and could reduce our opportunity to sell into the Midwest ISO market, thereby reducing our wholesale sales. Parties providing construction materials or services may fail to perform their obligations, which could harm our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Our construction program calls for extensive expenditures for capital improvements and additions, including the installation of environmental upgrades, improvements to transmission and distribution facilities as well as other initiatives. As a result, we have engaged, and will continue to engage, numerous contractors and have entered into a number of agreements to acquire the necessary materials and/or obtain the required construction related services. This exposes us to the risk that these contractors and other counterparties could fail to perform. In addition, some contracts provide for us to assume the risk of price escalation and availability of certain metals and key components. This could force us to enter into alternative arrangements at then-current market prices that may exceed our contractual prices and cause construction delays. It could also subject us to enforcement action by regulatory authorities to the extent that such a failure resulted in a failure to comply with requirements or expectations. Although our agreements are designed to mitigate the consequences of a potential default by the counterparty, our actual exposure may be greater than these mitigation provisions. This would adversely affect our financial results, and we might incur losses or delays in completing construction. We could incur significant capital expenditures to comply with environmental laws and regulations and/or material fines for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. We are subject to various federal, state, regional and local environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things, the generation, storage, handling, use, disposal and transportation of hazardous materials; the emission and discharge of hazardous and other materials into the environment; and the health and safety of our employees. These laws and regulations often require a lengthy and complex process of obtaining and renewing permits and other governmental authorizations from federal, state and local agencies. A violation of these laws, regulations or permits can result in substantial fines, other sanctions, and permit revocation and/or facility shutdowns. The amount of capital expenditures required to comply with environmental laws or regulations could be impacted by the outcome of the EPA’s NOV described in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Environmental Matters” in which the EPA alleges that several physical changes to IPL’s generating stations were made in noncompliance with existing environmental laws. This NOV from the EPA may also result in a fine which could be material. From time to time the company is subject to enforcement actions for claims of noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. IPL cannot assure that it will be successful in defending against any claim of noncompliance. Under certain environmental laws, we could be held responsible for costs relating to contamination at our past or present facilities and at third party waste disposal sites. We could also be held liable for human exposure to such hazardous substances or for other environmental damage. We cannot assure that our costs of complying with current and future environmental and health and safety laws, and our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances will not adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Please see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Environmental Matters” for a more comprehensive discussion of environmental matters impacting IPL and IPALCO. Regulators, politicians, non-governmental organizations and other private parties have expressed concern about greenhouse gas, or GHG, emissions and are taking actions which, in addition to the potential physical risks associated with climate change, could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. One by-product of burning coal and other fossil fuels is the emission of GHGs, including carbon dioxide (“CO2”). At the federal, state and regional levels, policies are under development to regulate GHG emissions, thereby effectively putting a cost on such emissions to create financial incentives to reduce them. In 2010, IPL emitted 17.4 million tons of carbon dioxide from our power plants. IPL uses CO2 emission estimation methodologies supported by “The Greenhouse Gas Protocol” reporting standard on GHG emissions. Our CO2 emissions are calculated from actual fuel heat inputs and fuel type CO2 emission factors. Any federal, state or regional legislation or regulation of GHG emissions that may be promulgated could have a material adverse impact on our financial performance. The actual impact on our financial performance will depend on a number of factors, including among others, the degree and timing of GHG emissions reductions required under any such legislation or regulations, the price and availability of offsets, the extent to which market based compliance options are available, the extent to which we would be entitled to receive GHG emissions allowances without having to purchase them in an auction or on the open market and the impact of such legislation or regulation on our ability to recover costs incurred through rate increases or otherwise. As a result of these factors, our cost of compliance could be substantial and could have a material impact on our results of operations. Legislators, including the U.S. Congress, have at times considered the passage of laws to limit the emission of GHGs. In 2009 the U.S. House of Representatives passed, and the U.S. Senate considered but did not pass, legislation that proposed, among other things, a nationwide cap on carbon dioxide and other GHG emissions and a requirement that major sources of air emissions, including coal-fueled power plants, obtain “emission allowances” to meet that cap. It is possible that federal legislation related to GHG emissions will be considered by Congress in the future. The EPA has also proposed using the CAA to limit carbon dioxide and other GHG emissions, and other measures are being imposed or offered by individual states, municipalities and regional agreements, such as the Midwestern Greenhouse Gas Reduction Accord (described below), with the ultimate goal of reducing GHG emissions. Under EPA regulations finalized in May 2010 (referred to as the "Tailoring Rule"), the EPA began regulating GHG emissions from certain stationary sources in January 2011. The regulations are being implemented pursuant to two CAA programs: the Title V Operating Permit program and the program requiring a permit if undergoing construction or major modifications (referred to as the "Prevention of Significant Deterioration", or "PSD" program). Obligations relating to Title V permits will include recordkeeping and monitoring requirements. With respect to PSD permits, projects that cause a significant increase in GHG emissions (currently defined to be more than 75,000 tons or more per year or 100,000 tons or more per year, depending on various factors), will be required to implement "best available control technology", or "BACT". The EPA has issued guidance on what BACT entails for the control of GHGs and individual states are now required to determine what controls are required for facilities within their jurisdiction on a case-by-case basis. The ultimate impact of these new regulations on our operations cannot be determined at this time, but the cost of compliance with new regulations could be material. In the absence of federal legislation or regulation, certain states, regions and local authorities have developed GHG initiatives. In November 2007, the governors of Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota, Ohio, South Dakota and Wisconsin and the Premier of Manitoba signed the Midwestern Greenhouse Gas Reduction Accord to develop and implement steps to reduce GHG emissions. In May 2010, the Midwestern Greenhouse Gas Reduction Accord Advisory Group finalized their recommendations for emissions reductions targets and targeted sectors for GHG reductions in their jurisdiction. These include a recommended reduction in GHG emissions of 20% below 2005 emissions levels by 2020. These recommendations are from the advisory committee only and have not been endorsed by the respective states or provinces. If Indiana were to implement the recommended, or other, targets however, the impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations could be material. In addition to government regulators, other groups such as politicians, environmentalists and other private parties have expressed increasing concern about GHG emissions. For example, certain financial institutions have expressed concern about providing financing for facilities which would emit GHGs, which can affect our ability to obtain capital, or if we can obtain capital, to receive it on commercially viable terms. In addition, rating agencies may decide to downgrade our credit ratings based on our emissions or increased compliance costs which could make financing unattractive. In addition, environmental groups and other private plaintiffs may decide to bring private lawsuits against us because of our GHG emissions, unless the Supreme Court forecloses the ability to bring such suits (see American Electric Power v. Connecticut, No. 10-174 certiorari granted December 6, 2010), or the U.S. Congress acts to preempt such suits as part of comprehensive federal legislation. Consequently, it is impossible to determine whether such lawsuits are likely to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, according to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, physical risks from climate change could include, but are not limited to, increased runoff and earlier spring peak discharge in many glacier and snow fed rivers, warming of lakes and rivers, an increase in sea level, changes and variability in precipitation and in the intensity and frequency of extreme weather events. Physical impacts may have the potential to significantly affect our business and operations, and any such potential impact may render it more difficult to obtain financing. For example, extreme weather events could result in increased downtime and operation and maintenance costs at our electric power generation facilities and our support facilities. Variations in weather conditions, primarily temperature and humidity, also would be expected to affect the energy needs of customers. A decrease in energy consumption could decrease our revenues. In addition, while revenues would be expected to increase if the energy consumption of customers increased, such increase could prompt the need for additional investment in generation capacity. Changes in the temperature of lakes and rivers and changes in precipitation that result in drought could adversely affect the operations of our fossil-fuel fired electric power generation facilities. If any of the foregoing risks materialize, costs may increase or revenues may decrease and there could be a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition to the rules already in effect, regulatory initiatives regarding GHG emissions may be implemented in the future, although at this time we cannot predict if, how, or to what extent such initiatives would affect us. Generally, we believe costs to comply with any regulations implemented to reduce GHG emissions, including those already promulgated, would be deemed as part of the costs of providing electricity to our customers and as such, we would seek recovery for such costs in our rates. However, no assurance can be given as to whether the IURC will approve such requests. Please see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Environmental Matters” for a more comprehensive discussion of environmental matters impacting IPL and IPALCO. Commodity price changes may affect the operating costs and competitive position of our business. Our business is sensitive to changes in the price of coal, the primary fuel we use to produce electricity, and to a lesser extent, to the changes in the prices of natural gas, purchased power and emissions allowances. In addition, changes in the prices of steel, copper and other raw materials can have a significant impact on our costs. Any changes in coal prices could affect the prices we charge, our operating costs and our competitive position with respect to our products and services. While we have approximately 85% of our current coal requirements for the three-year period ending December 31, 2013 under long-term contracts, the balance is yet to be purchased and will be purchased under a combination of long-term contracts, short-term contracts and on the spot market. Prices can be volatile in both short-term market and on the spot market. Pricing provisions in some of our long-term coal contracts allow for price changes under certain circumstances. We are also dependent on purchased power, in part, to meet our seasonal planning reserve margins. Our exposure to fluctuations in the price of coal is limited because pursuant to Indiana law, we may apply to the IURC for a change in our FAC every three months to recover our estimated fuel costs, which may be above or below the levels included in our basic rates. In addition, we may recover the energy portion of our purchased power costs in these quarterly FAC proceedings. We must present evidence in each proceeding that we have made every reasonable effort to acquire fuel and generate or purchase power or both so as to provide electricity to our retail customers at the lowest fuel cost reasonably possible. We are subject to employee workforce factors that could affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. We are subject to employee workforce factors, including, among other things, loss or retirement of key personnel (over 50% of our employees are over the age of 50), availability of qualified personnel, and collective bargaining agreements with employees who are members of a union. Approximately 63% of our employees are represented by the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers. We may not be able to successfully train new personnel as current workers with significant knowledge and expertise retire. We also may be unable to staff our business with qualified personnel in the event of significant absenteeism related to a pandemic illness. Work stoppages or other workforce issues could affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Economic conditions relating to the asset performance and interest rates of the Employees’ Retirement Plan of Indianapolis Power & Light Company and Supplemental Retirement Plan of Indianapolis Power & Light Company (“Pension Plans”) could materially impact our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Pension costs are based upon a number of actuarial assumptions, including an expected long-term rate of return on pension plan assets, level of employer contributions, the expected life span of pension plan beneficiaries and the discount rate used to determine the present value of future pension obligations. Any of these assumptions could prove to be wrong, resulting in a shortfall of our Pension Plans’ assets compared to pension obligations under the Pension Plans. We are responsible for funding any shortfall of Pension Plans’ assets compared to pension obligations under the Pension Plans, and a significant increase in our pension liabilities could materially impact our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. The Pension Protection Act of 2006, which contains comprehensive pension funding reform legislation, was enacted into law during the third quarter of 2006. The pension funding provisions are effective January 1, 2008. The Pension Protection Act of 2006 requires plans that are less than 100% funded to fully fund any funding shortfall in amortized level installments over seven years, beginning in the year of the shortfall. In addition, we must also contribute the normal service cost earned by active participants during the plan year. Then, each year thereafter, if the plan’s underfunding increases to more than the present value of the remaining annual installments, the excess is separately amortized over a new seven year period. Please see Note 12, “Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits” to the audited Consolidated Financial Statements of IPALCO in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” included in this Form 10-K for further discussion. From time to time, we are subject to material litigation and regulatory proceedings. We may be subject to material litigation, regulatory proceedings, administrative proceedings, settlements, investigations and claims from time to time. There can be no assurance that the outcome of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Please see Note 4, “Regulatory Matters” and Note 13, “Commitments and Contingencies” to the audited Consolidated Financial Statements of IPALCO in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” included in this Form 10-K for a summary of significant regulatory matters and legal proceedings involving us. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 1C. DEFINED TERMS DEFINED TERMS The following is a list of frequently used abbreviations or acronyms that are found in this Form 10-K: 1995B Bonds $40 Million City of Petersburg, Indiana, Pollution Control Refunding Revenue Bonds Adjustable Rate Tender Securities Series 1995B, Indianapolis Power & Light Company Project 2008 IPALCO Notes $375 million of 8.375% (original coupon 7.375%) Senior Secured Notes due November 14, 2008 2011 IPALCO Notes $375 million of 8.625% (original coupon 7.625%) Senior Secured Notes due November 14, 2011 2016 IPALCO Notes $400 million of 7.25% Senior Secured Notes due April 1, 2016 AES The AES Corporation ASC Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification ASM Ancillary Services Market CAA Federal Clean Air Act CAIR Clean Air Interstate Rule CAMR Clean Air Mercury Rule CCB Coal Combustion Byproducts CCT Clean Coal Technology CO2 Carbon Dioxide Defined Benefit Pension Plan Employees’ Retirement Plan of Indianapolis Power & Light Company DSM Demand Side Management ECCRA Environmental Compliance Cost Recovery Adjustment EPA U.S. Environmental Protection Agency EPAct Energy Policy Act of 2005 Exchange Act Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended FAC Fuel Adjustment Charges FERC Federal Energy Regulatory Commission GHG Greenhouse Gas IPALCO IPALCO Enterprises, Inc. IPL Indianapolis Power & Light Company IURC Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission kWh Kilowatt hours MW Megawatt Mid-America Mid-America Capital Resources, Inc. Midwest ISO Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator, Inc. NAAQS National Ambient Air Quality Standards NOV Notice of Violation NOx Nitrogen Oxides Pension Plans Employees’ Retirement Plan of Indianapolis Power & Light Company and Supplemental Retirement Plan of Indianapolis Power & Light Company RFC ReliabilityFirst Corporation RSG Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee RSP AES Retirement Savings Plan SO2 Sulfur Dioxides S&P Standard & Poors Thrift Plan Employees’ Thrift Plan of Indianapolis Power & Light Company 