Item 1A. Risk Factors Investors should consider carefully the following risk factors that could cause our operating results and financial condition to be materially adversely affected. New risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our business or financial performance. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other detailed information concerning IPALCO and IPL set forth in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" herein. Our electric generating facilities are subject to operational risks that could result in unscheduled plant outages, unanticipated operation and maintenance expenses and increased fuel or purchased power costs. We operate coal, oil and natural gas generating facilities, which involves certain risks that can adversely affect energy output and efficiency levels. These risks include: increased prices for fuel and fuel transportation as existing contracts expire; facility shutdowns due to a breakdown or failure of equipment or processes; disruptions in the delivery of fuel and lack of adequate inventories; labor disputes; inability to comply with regulatory or permit requirements; disruptions in the delivery of electricity; operator error; and catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, terrorist acts, acts of war, pandemic events, or natural disasters such as floods, earthquakes, tornadoes or other similar occurrences affecting our generating facilities. The above risks could result in unscheduled plant outages, unanticipated operation and maintenance expenses or increased fuel and purchased power costs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. At times, demand for electric energy could exceed our supply capacity. We are currently obligated to supply electric energy in our service territory. From time to time and because of unforeseen circumstances, the demand for electric energy required to meet these obligations could exceed our available electric generating capability. If this occurs, we would have to buy electric energy on the market. We may not always have the ability to pass the costs of purchasing the electric energy on to our customers, and even if we are able to do so, there may be a significant delay between the time the costs are incurred and the time the costs are recovered (see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations- Regulatory Matters - Fuel Adjustment Charge and Authorized Jurisdictional Net Operating Income). Since these situations most often occur during periods of peak demand, there is a material risk that the market price for electric energy at the time we purchase it could be very high under these circumstances. Even if a supply shortage was brief, we could suffer substantial losses that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our transmission and distribution system is subject to reliability and capacity risks. The on-going reliable performance of our transmission and distribution system is subject to risks due to, among other things, weather damage, intentional or unintentional damage, plant outages, labor disputes, operator error, or inoperability of key infrastructure internal or external to IPL. The failure of our transmission and distribution system to fully deliver the energy demanded by customers could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, and if such failures occur too often or for an extended period of time, could result in action by the IURC and FERC. In addition, the advent and quick adaptation of new products and services that require increased levels of electrical energy cannot be predicted and could result in insufficient transmission and distribution system capacity. As with all utilities, potential concern over transmission capacity could result in the Midwest ISO or the FERC requiring IPL to upgrade or expand its transmission system through additional capital expenditures. More than half of IPL's supply of coal that it uses to generate substantially all of its electricity comes from one supplier. More than 99% of the total kWhs produced by IPL was generated from coal in each of 2004, 2005, and 2006. IPL's existing coal contracts provide for nearly all of its projected requirements in 2007 and approximately 90% through 2009. IPL has long-term coal contracts with four suppliers. Substantially all of the coal is currently mined in the state of Indiana. More than half of IPL's contracted coal is from one supplier. IPL has entered into three long term contracts with this non- union supplier for the provision of coal from three separate mines. Any significant disruption in the delivery of coal from this supplier, or any failure on the part of this supplier to fulfill its contractual obligation to deliver coal, could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we had to find another supplier of coal, there can be no assurance that we would be able to purchase coal on favorable terms. Catastrophic events could adversely affect our facilities, systems and operations. Catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, terrorist acts, acts of war, pandemic events, or natural disasters such as floods, earthquakes, tornadoes or other similar occurrences could adversely affect our generation facilities, transmission and distribution systems, operations, earnings and cash flow. Our Petersburg Plant, which is our largest source of generating capacity, is located in the Wabash Valley seismic zone, adjacent to the New Madrid seismic zone, areas of significant seismic activity in the central United States. Our business is sensitive to weather and seasonal variations. Our business is affected by variations in general weather conditions and unusually severe weather. We forecast electric sales on the basis of normal weather, which represents a long term historical average. Significant variations from normal weather (such as warmer winters and cooler summers) could have a material impact on our revenue, operating income and net income. Storms that interrupt services to our customers have required us in the past, and may require us in the future, to incur significant costs to restore services. The electricity business is highly regulated, and any changes in regulations, or adverse regulatory action, could reduce revenues or increase costs. As an electric utility, we are subject to extensive regulation at both the federal and state level. At the federal level, we are regulated by the FERC and, at the state level, we are regulated by the IURC. The regulatory power of the IURC over IPL is both comprehensive and typical of the economic regulation generally imposed by state public utility commissions. We face the risk of unexpected or adverse regulatory action. Regulatory discretion is reasonably broad in Indiana. IPL is subject to regulation by the IURC as to its services and facilities, the valuation of property, the construction, purchase, or lease of electric generating facilities, the classification of accounts, rates of depreciation, the increase or decrease in retail rates and charges, the issuance of securities (other than evidences of indebtedness payable less than twelve months after the date of issue), the acquisition and sale of public utility properties or securities and certain other matters. IPL's tariff rates for electric service to retail customers consist of basic rates and charges and various tracking mechanisms which are set and approved by the IURC after public hearings. Pursuant to statute, the IURC is to conduct a periodic review of the basic rates and charges of all utilities at least once every four years, but the IURC has the authority to review the rates of any utility at any time it chooses. We are unable to predict the outcome of any such review. Proceedings to review our basic rates and charges, which have occurred at irregular intervals, involve IPL, the staff of the IURC, the OUCC and other interested consumer groups and customers. In addition, IPL must seek the approval from the IURC through such public proceedings of its tracking mechanism factors to reflect changes in its fuel costs to generate electricity or purchased power costs and for the timely recovery of costs incurred during construction and operation of clean coal technology facilities constructed to comply with environmental laws and regulations. There can be no assurance that IPL will be granted approval of its tracking mechanism factors that it requests from the IURC. The failure of the IURC to approve any requested relief, or any other adverse rate determination by the IURC, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In recent years, federal and state regulation of electric utilities has changed dramatically. On August 8, 2005, the Energy Policy Act of 2005 ("EPAct") was signed into law. Much of the legislation directs the FERC, the Department of Energy, and other agencies to develop rules for the implementation of the EPAct. The EPAct contains provisions specifically related to the electric utility industry including, but not limited to, the following: climate change issues, mandatory reliability standards, amendments to the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act, repeal of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, enactment of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005, clean power initiatives, transmission expansion and energy efficiency proposals. The IURC has initiated a generic investigation to consider whether it is appropriate for electric utilities to provide and install time-based meters and communication devices for each of their customers to participate in time-based pricing rate schedules and other demand response programs. The adoption of rules by either FERC or the IURC implementing EPAct could affect our business. We are currently unable to predict the impact, if any, to our results of operations. Our participation in the Midwest ISO network involves risks. IPL is a member of the Midwest ISO, a FERC approved regional transmission organization. The Midwest ISO serves the electrical transmission needs of much of the Midwest and maintains functional operational control over IPL's electric transmission facilities as well as that of the other Midwest utility members of the Midwest ISO. As a result of the Midwest ISO's operational control, IPL's continued ability to import power, when necessary, and export power to the wholesale market has been, and may continue to be, impacted. Given the nature of the Midwest ISO's policies regarding use of transmission facilities, as well as ongoing FERC initiatives and uncertainties around the fully functioning or "Midwest ISO Day 2" energy market operations, it is difficult to predict near term operational impacts. IPL cannot assure the Midwest ISO's reliable operation of the regional transmission system. At the federal level, there are business risks for IPL associated with multiple proceedings pending before the FERC related to IPL's membership and participation in the Midwest ISO. These proceedings involve such issues as transmission rates, construction of new transmission facilities, capacity markets, regional transmission organizations and generator dispatch. IPL currently cannot predict the impact of these proceedings on its financial position, liquidity or results of operations, but the impact could be material. To the extent that IPL relies, at least in part, on the performance of the Midwest ISO to maintain the reliability of IPL's transmission and distribution system, it puts IPL at risk for the performance of the Midwest ISO. In addition, actions taken by the Midwest ISO to secure the reliable operation of the entire transmission system operated by the Midwest ISO could result in voltage reductions, rolling blackouts, or sustained system wide blackouts on IPL's transmission and distribution system, any of which could have a material adverse effect on IPL's results of operations. In March 2007, FERC issued orders approving the cost sharing methodologies, developed by the Midwest ISO and its members, for capital improvements related to reliability projects and regionally beneficial or economic projects. The potential need to expend capital for improvements to the transmission system over the next several years, both to IPL's facilities as well as to those facilities of other Midwest ISO members, is published in the annual Midwest ISO Transmission Expansion Plan. Each Midwest ISO Transmission Expansion Plan includes an allocation of costs to each transmission owner over the planning horizon. The shared costs, which are incremental to our own estimated transmission investments under the Midwest ISO tariff as approved by FERC, could have a material adverse impact to our financial statements. We do not yet have sufficient information to determine whether such costs will be capitalized, expensed or deferred as a regulatory asset in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 71. The Midwest ISO filed with FERC on February 15, 2007 for approval of a market redesign that includes the start-up of ancillary services markets to be implemented in the spring of 2008. The Ancillary Services Market is often referred to as "Day 3". The design initiates markets for supplemental reserves, spinning reserves, and regulation on a footprint wide basis and is compulsory. IPL cannot predict if the market redesign will be accepted, in whole or in part, by FERC. If accepted by FERC, it would also require approval by the IURC. IPL is working with the Midwest ISO, through the stakeholder process and through the FERC processes, to identify the challenges to IPL as well as to recommend solutions to those challenges. On March 30, 2007 IPL filed an Intervention and Protest with FERC related to the Midwest ISO proposed ancillary services market (Docket No. ER07-550) asking FERC to reject the proposed ancillary services market design due to lack of requisite detail, excessive costs and questionable benefits, and asking that FERC take additional time to reconsider additional options regarding an appropriate market design. The Midwest ISO has asked FERC to render its Order by June 1, 2007 and proposes to implement the market in the spring of 2008. On December 22, 2006, IPL tendered its Notice of Withdrawal from Midwest ISO pursuant to the Midwest ISO Transmission Owner's Agreement. In doing so, IPL preserved its right to withdraw from Midwest ISO (subject to FERC and IURC approval) at some date no earlier than January 1, 2008. IPL has made no decision as to whether it will seek withdrawal from Midwest ISO. IPL will continue to assess the relative costs and benefits of being a Midwest ISO member, as well as actively advocate for its positions through the existing Midwest ISO stakeholder process and in filings at FERC. Our ownership by AES subjects us to potential risks that are beyond our control. All of IPL's common stock is owned by IPALCO, whose common stock is owned by AES. The interests of AES may differ from the interests of IPALCO, IPL or any of their creditors or other stakeholders. Further, due to our relationship with AES, any adverse developments and announcements concerning them may affect our ability to access the capital markets and to otherwise conduct business. In particular, downgrades in AES's credit ratings could potentially result in IPL or IPALCO's credit ratings being downgraded. IPL's common stock is pledged to secure certain indebtedness of IPALCO, and IPALCO's common stock is pledged to secure certain indebtedness of AES. IPALCO is a holding company and is dependent on IPL for dividends to meet its debt service obligations. IPALCO is a holding company with no material assets other than the common stock of its subsidiaries, and accordingly all cash is generated by the operating activities of our subsidiaries, principally IPL. None of our subsidiaries, including IPL, is obligated on our Senior Secured Notes, and none of our subsidiaries will guarantee the notes; however, the common stock of IPL is pledged to secure payment of these notes. Accordingly, our ability to make payments on the notes is dependent not only on the ability of our subsidiaries to generate cash in the future, but also on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute cash to us. IPL's mortgage and deed of trust and its amended articles of incorporation contain restrictions on IPL's ability to issue certain securities or pay cash dividends to us. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources" for a discussion of these restrictions. We rely on access to the capital markets, so the inability to maintain current credit ratings and access capital markets on favorable terms could increase interest costs and/or adversely affect liquidity and cash flow. From time to time we rely on access to capital markets as a source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by operating cash flows. The inability of IPL or IPALCO to maintain their current credit ratings could affect their ability to raise capital on favorable terms, particularly during times of uncertainty in the capital markets. The level of our indebtedness, and the security provided for this indebtedness, could adversely affect our financial flexibility. As of December 31, 2006, we had on a consolidated basis $1.48 billion principal amount of outstanding long-term indebtedness and total common shareholder's deficit of ($50.7) million. The Senior Secured Notes of IPALCO in the principal amount of $750 million are secured by IPALCO's pledge of all the outstanding common stock of IPL. IPL had $752.7 million of First Mortgage Bonds outstanding as of December 31, 2006, which are secured by the pledge of substantially all of the assets of IPL under the terms of IPL's mortgage and deed of trust. This level of indebtedness and related security could have important consequences, including the following: increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund other corporate purposes; imit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds, as needed. We expect to incur additional debt in the future, subject to the terms of our debt agreements and regulatory approvals for IPL. To the extent we become more leveraged, the risks described above would increase. Further, our actual cash requirements in the future may be greater than expected. Accordingly, our cash flow from operations may not be sufficient to repay at maturity all of the outstanding debt as it becomes due and, in that event, we may not be able to borrow money, sell assets or otherwise raise funds on acceptable terms or at all to refinance our debt as it becomes due. For a further discussion of outstanding debt, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources." General economic conditions may adversely affect our business. Our business is affected by general economic conditions. In particular, the projected economic and population growth in Indianapolis is important to the realization of our forecasts for annual energy sales growth. A downturn in the Indianapolis economy could adversely affect our expected performance. Parties providing construction materials or services may fail to perform their obligations, which could harm our results of operations. Our construction program calls for extensive investment in capital improvements and additions, including the installation of environmental upgrades, improvements to transmission and distribution facilities as well as other initiatives. As a result, we have engaged numerous contractors and entered into a number of agreements to acquire the necessary materials and/or obtain the required construction related services. This exposes us to the risk that these contractors and other counterparties could fail to perform. In addition, some contracts provide for us to assume the risk of price escalation and availability of certain metals and key components. This could force us to enter into alternative arrangements at then-current market prices that may exceed our contractual prices and cause construction delays. Although our agreements are designed to mitigate the consequences of a potential default by the counterparty, our actual exposure may be greater than these mitigation provisions. This would cause our financial results to be diminished, and we might incur losses or delays in completing construction. We could incur significant capital expenditures to comply with environmental laws and regulations. We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things, the generation, storage, handling, use, disposal and transportation of hazardous materials; the emission and discharge of hazardous and other materials into the environment; and the health and safety of our employees. These laws and regulations often require a lengthy and complex process of obtaining and renewing permits and other governmental authorizations from federal, state and local agencies. A violation of these laws, regulations or permits can result in substantial fines, other sanctions, permit revocation and/or facility shutdowns. Although we believe that we are in material compliance with environmental laws, regulations and permits and health and safety laws, we cannot provide assurance that we have been or will be at all times in full compliance with such laws, regulations and permits. Under certain environmental laws, we could be held responsible for costs relating to contamination at our past or present facilities and at third party waste disposal sites. We could also be held liable for human exposure to such hazardous substances or for other environmental damage. We cannot assure that our costs of complying with current and future environmental and health and safety laws, and our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances will not adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Commodity price changes may affect the operating costs and competitive position of our business. Our business is sensitive to changes in the price of coal, the primary fuel we use to produce electricity, and to a lesser extent, to the changes in price of natural gas, purchased power and emission credits. In addition, changes in the price of steel, copper and other raw materials can have a significant impact on our costs. Any changes in coal prices could affect the prices we charge, our operating costs and our competitive position with respect to our products and services. While we have approximately 90% of our current coal requirements through 2009 under long-term contracts, the balance is purchased under short-term contracts and on the spot market where prices can be highly volatile. We are also dependent on purchased power, in part, to meet our seasonal planning reserve margins. Our exposure to fluctuations in the price of coal is limited because pursuant to Indiana law, IPL may apply to the IURC for a change in its fuel adjustment charge every three (3) months to recover its estimated fuel costs, which may be above or below the levels included in IPL's base rates. In addition, IPL may recover its purchased power costs in these quarterly FAC proceedings. IPL must present evidence in each proceeding that it has made every reasonable effort to acquire fuel and generate or purchase power or both so as to provide electricity to its retail customers at the lowest fuel cost reasonably possible. We are subject to employee workforce factors that could affect our businesses and financial condition. We are subject to employee workforce factors, including loss or retirement of key personnel, availability of qualified personnel, collective bargaining agreements with employees and work stoppage that could affect our businesses and financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our net pension plan obligations may require additional significant contributions. Pension costs are based upon a number of actuarial assumptions, including an expected long- term rate of return on pension plan assets, the expected life span of pension plan beneficiaries and the discount rate used to determine the present value of future pension obligations. Any of these assumptions could prove to be wrong, resulting in a shortfall of pension plan assets compared to pension obligations under the pension plan. We are responsible for funding any shortfall of pension plan assets compared to pension obligations under the pension plan. Our pension plan assets consist of investments in domestic and international equities, fixed income securities, alternative investments (currently real estate and hedge funds), and cash. The Pension Protection Act of 2006 ("The Act"), which contains comprehensive pension funding reform legislation, was enacted into law during the third quarter of 2006. The pension funding provisions are effective January 1, 2008. The Act requires plans that are less than 100% funded to fully fund any funding shortfall in amortized level installments over seven years, beginning in the year of the shortfall. Then, each year thereafter, if the plan's underfunding increases to more than the present value of the remaining annual installments, the excess is separately amortized over a new seven year period. From time to time, we are subject to material litigation and regulatory proceedings. We may be subject to material litigation, regulatory proceedings, administrative proceedings, settlements, investigations and claims from time to time. There can be no assurance that the outcome of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Please refer to Note 10, "Commitments and Contingencies" to the Consolidated Financial Statements of IPALCO for a summary of significant legal proceedings involving IPALCO and/or IPL. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 