ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Statements contained in this Annual Report that are not historical facts or that discuss our expectations, beliefs or views regarding our future operations or future financial performance or future financial condition or trends in our business or markets constitute “forward-looking statements.” Forward-looking statements contain estimates, predictions and our expectations, beliefs and views about our future financial performance or future financial condition, or regarding financial or market trends that may affect our future results of operations. Such statements are based on current information available to us and our business is subject to a number of risks, market conditions and uncertainties that could cause our actual operating results or our financial performance or financial condition in future periods to differ, possibly significantly, from our current expectations and the estimates that are set forth in the forward looking statements contained in this Annual Report. Set forth below is a discussion of those risks and uncertainties. However, readers of this Report are cautioned that it is not possible to predict all of the events or circumstances that might occur and might adversely affect our financial performance or operating results in the future and, therefore, there may be other risks to which our business is subject that are not addressed below. Our business and financial performance are affected by economic conditions that affect consumers. Our sales are affected directly by the level of purchases and the usage by consumers of RVs and boats which, in turn, are dependent on the ability and willingness of consumers to spend money to make purchases of and to use their RVs and boats. As a result, our sales are affected primarily by (i) the discretionary income that consumers have to spend, (ii) their confidence about economic conditions which determines their willingness to spend their discretionary income, (iii) the availability of and the interest rates payable on borrowings, including credit card debt, on which consumers generally rely to finance their purchases of and the costs of using RVs and boats, and (iv) the availability and prices of gasoline, which affect the ability and cost of operating and using their RVs and boats. As a result, our sales and earnings in the past have been, and our future sales and earnings can be, adversely affected by the following conditions: • Economic downturns and recessions and rising unemployment, which result in declines in discretionary income of and a loss of confidence among consumers about economic conditions and their own economic well-being and security, which cause them to reduce their purchases and usage of RVs and boats; • A tightening in the availability and increases in the costs of borrowings and consumer credit on which consumers rely to supplement their own funds when purchasing new and used RVs and boats and paying to maintain and purchase supplies and accessories for their RVs and boats; and • Increases in the prices and shortages in the supply of gasoline, which increase the costs and sometimes even the ability and, therefore, the willingness of consumers to purchase and use RVs and boats. Our results of operations in 2010, 2009 and 2008 illustrate the impact that adverse economic and market conditions can have on our business and financial performance. The current economic recession, which is reported to have begun in late 2007, became quite severe during the second half of 2008 and has continued through 2010 and has had wide-ranging consequences for the economy as a whole and has created serious and unprecedented difficulties for the RV and boating industries in particular. The recession began with dramatic declines in home prices and increases in mortgage loan delinquencies and home foreclosures that, in turn, led banks and other lending institutions to significantly curtail the availability of credit to both businesses and consumers. Those conditions resulted in a considerable decline in economic activity throughout the country and sharp and rapid drops in the prices of stocks and bonds, which led to rapid increases in unemployment and significant declines in the retirement savings of consumers that significantly reduced their discretionary income and caused them to lose confidence in the economy and in their own economic security. As a result, consumers have significantly curtailed their purchases and usage of RVs and boats that significantly reduced their need for and their purchases of the products we sell. Although economic conditions began to improve in 2010, unemployment remains high and considerable uncertainties remain with respect to the strength and sustainability of an economic recovery. As a result, we expect that consumers will continue to be reluctant to increase their spending generally or their purchases and usage of RVs and boats, in particular, at least during the first half of 2011. Consequently, we have been diligent in our programs 6 Table of Contents designed to enable us to gain market share, increase our profit margins and reduce our costs in order to offset the effects that these economic and market conditions could have on our results of operations during 2011. However, due those uncertainties, it is not possible to predict, with any degree of accuracy, whether or not these programs will enable us to achieve improvements in our operating results in 2011, as compared to 2010 and we could incur losses in 2011. For a more detailed discussion of how these economic conditions affected our results of operation and financial condition in 2010, see “MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS” below, in Part II of this Report. The economic recession and credit crisis could have longer term adverse consequences for our business and future financial performance. The economic recession and credit crisis have led to the closure or bankruptcies of many RV and boating dealers and a number of well-known RV manufacturers which could significantly reduce the size of the RV and boating markets and the number of our Aftermarket Customers and, therefore, adversely affect our business, sales, gross profit margins and future financial performance. In addition, the spending habits of consumers who purchase and use RVs and boats may change as a result of the current economic recession and credit crisis, because consumers may choose, even after the economy recovers, to reduce their spending and use of consumer credit, which could result in a decline in their purchases and usage of RVs and boats and, therefore, in their need for and purchases of the products we sell. Also, owners of RVs and boats may increasingly choose to purchase RV and boating parts, supplies and accessories from lower cost sellers, such as mass merchandisers and web-based retailers, instead of from independent dealers, supply stores and service centers that comprise our Aftermarket customers that purchase products from us, which could adversely affect our market share, pricing, and sales revenues and, as a result, our future financial performance. From time to time we may have to restructure our business to react to worsening economic conditions, a decline in the RV or boating industries (or the softening of those industries) and/or to changing technology, products and markets. If we are not able to continue to improve our business processes, our financial and/or our information technology systems, or if we are not able to restructure our business in response to the deteriorating economic conditions, we may not be able to achieve our financial objectives. Volatility of gasoline prices could affect our sales and future financial performance. Increases in the costs of and shortages in the supplies of gasoline can lead consumers to reduce their usage of, and may discourage some consumers from purchasing, RVs and boats which, in turn, would result in decreases in their purchases of the products we sell. In particular, during the last few years there has been increased volatility in the prices of gasoline due to concerns about the supplies available to or within the United States, due to (i) the growth in demand and competition for oil and gasoline from emerging and high growth economies, such as China and India, (ii) conflicts and political unrest in the middle east and (iii) natural and human-made disasters, such as the recent gulf oil spill. It is also difficult to predict whether uncertainties regarding and increases in gasoline prices will have short or longer term effects on the use and purchases by consumers of RVs and boats. As a result these conditions and uncertainties also may increase cyclical swings in and make it more difficult to predict our future operating results. Our business is seasonal and our financial performance can be adversely affected by unusual weather conditions. Our business is seasonal, because consumers generally increase their purchases and usage of RVs and boats and, therefore, increase their purchases of the products we sell, primarily in the spring and summer months, which coincide with our second and third fiscal quarters; whereas, such purchases and usage declines in the late fall and in the winter months, which coincide with the fourth and first quarters of our fiscal year. As a result, as a general rule our sales are higher and our financial performance is better in our second and third fiscal quarters than in our fourth and first fiscal quarters, during which we often incur losses. However, the occurrence of unusually severe or extended winter weather conditions can adversely affect our operating results in our second and third fiscal quarters, and can lead to more severe swings in our sales and 7 Table of Contents financial performance, because such conditions can have the effect of reducing the usage of RV and boats for periods extending beyond the ordinary winter months or to regions that ordinarily encounter milder winter weather conditions. Additionally, extended periods of unusually severe weather conditions sometimes also occur during the winter months, which can cause year-over-year declines in our sales in the first or fourth quarters of the year. We rely heavily on bank borrowings in the operation of our business, which makes us more vulnerable to adverse changes in economic conditions. We rely heavily on bank borrowings to fund our working capital requirements and capital expenditures. Our outstanding borrowings create additional risks for our business. Among other things, we may find it more difficult to obtain additional financing to fund expansion or take advantage of other business opportunities, and we use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay the principal of and interest on our debt. Our existing debt also makes us more vulnerable to general economic downturns and competitive pressures, which could cause us to fail to meet financial covenants in our bank loan agreement or lead the bank to impose restrictions on the borrowings that will be made available to us. In either of those events, it could become necessary for us to reduce the size and scope of our business, which could hurt our financial condition and operating results. Risks of our reliance on sole sources of supply for certain of our products. We sometimes choose to carry only a single manufacturer’s products for certain of the brand-name product lines that we sell. In addition, we obtain each of our proprietary products from a single source manufacturer, although in many instances we own the tooling required for their manufacture. Dependence on a single manufacturer for any product or line of related products, however, presents some risks, including the risk that we will be unable to readily obtain alternative product supply sources in the event that a single source supplier (i) encounters quality or other manufacturing problems, or (ii) decides to enter into an exclusive supply arrangement or alliance with one of our competitors, or to vertically integrate its operations to include not only manufacturing, but also distribution, of its products. If any of our single source suppliers were to encounter any manufacturing problems or disruptions or terminate our supply relationship, our sales and earnings could decline, possibly to a significant extent. Our financial results can be and sometimes have been adversely affected by changes in supply relationships in our markets. As is the customary practice in our markets, in most instances we do not have long term supply contracts with our product suppliers. As a result, product suppliers are free to change the terms on which they sell us products or to discontinue supplying us with products altogether, because they may choose to distribute their products directly to aftermarket dealers or retailers or because they might choose to establish exclusive supply relationships with other distributors. Additionally, manufacturers of new RVs and boats may choose to incorporate optional equipment on their RVs and boats at the time of manufacture that, historically, were provided to their dealers by distributors such as the Company. Any of these occurrences could result in increased competition in our markets or could reduce the number of products we are able to offer our customers, which could cause our sales to decline and could result in lower margins and in reduced earnings. Our financial performance is subject to risks arising out of our proprietary products strategy. In order to increase our sales and reduce our costs of sales and, thereby increase our profitability, we have introduced into the RV and boating markets a growing number of products that have been designed by or for us and which are manufactured and sold to us, generally on an exclusive basis, by a number of different manufacturers. More recently, we have begun sourcing and purchasing, from overseas suppliers, and marketing and selling a number of new products, such as portable generators, into new markets. We have only limited experience in marketing and selling such products, and there is no assurance that these products will gain acceptance among customers in those markets. We also encounter considerable competition from companies that manufacture or sell competing products in those same markets. Many of those companies are larger, more established and better known and have greater financial and marketing resources than we have. Also, we have greater responsibilities for quality control and in marketing and providing warranty protection and service for these products, as compared to the products we source from traditional suppliers for resale in the RV or boating markets. There is no assurance that we will be successful in marketing and selling these products, and the costs we incur in doing so may reduce our earnings or possibly even cause us to incur losses and we could encounter liabilities for possible warranty claims related to the proprietary products we sell. 8 Table of Contents Our financial performance and cash flows can be adversely affected by currency fluctuations associated with our operations in Canada and our increased reliance on foreign product suppliers. Currency Risks Associated with our Canadian Operations. Our wholly-owned Canadian subsidiary accounts for approximately 26% of our annual net sales. That subsidiary purchases a substantial portion of the products it sells from manufacturers in the United States and pays for those products in U.S. dollars, but sells those products to its customers in Canadian dollars. In the event the Canadian dollar weakens in relation to the U.S. dollar, the costs of those products to our Canadian subsidiary would increase, thereby reducing its gross margin, unless it is able to pass the higher costs on to its customers by raising its prices without adversely affecting its sales volume. If our Canadian subsidiary is unable to pass the higher costs on to its customers, our gross profits, operating income and cash flows would decline during any periods when there are declines in the value of the Canadian dollar in relation to the U.S. dollar. Currency and other Risks Associated with our Purchases of Foreign Sourced Products. As we increase our purchases of products from foreign suppliers, we may become increasingly vulnerable to the effects of political instability and adverse economic conditions in the countries in which those suppliers are located. Additionally, purchases of products in foreign countries create currency risks for us. In those instances when we pay for foreign sourced products in U.S. dollars, a weakening U.S. dollar may lead foreign suppliers to increase the prices they charge us for their products in order to mitigate their currency exchange risks. In those countries where we buy products in the local currency, to the extent it becomes necessary for us to convert U.S. dollars into the local currency in order to pay for those products, a weakening dollar would make the local currency more expensive for us, thereby increasing the costs to us of purchasing those products. Moreover, a devaluation of local currencies may lead foreign suppliers to increase the prices they charge us for their products. Any of these events or circumstances could reduce the margin advantage that we could otherwise realize on resales of foreign sourced products in North America, unless we are able to pass along the higher costs to our customers without adversely affecting our sales volume. If we are unable to pass such higher costs on to our customers, our gross profits and operating income and our cash flows would decline. When appropriate, we may attempt to limit our exposure to exchange rate changes by entering into currency exchange contracts. There is no assurance that we will hedge or will be able to hedge such foreign currency exchange risk or that our hedges will be successful. Our currency exchange gains or losses (net of hedges) may materially and adversely impact our cash flows and earnings. We are subject to product liability risks and warranty claims. Product Liability Risks. Although we do not manufacture any of the products we sell, it is not uncommon for us to be named as an additional defendant in product liability lawsuits brought against the manufacturers of the products we sell. To protect ourselves from liability, we have been able in many instances to obtain indemnification agreements from these manufacturers or to be named as additional insureds under their product liability insurance policies. Nevertheless, we also maintain our own product liability insurance. We also conduct quality control testing, at our own product testing laboratories in the United States, of many of the proprietary products that we sell. However, although we have never incurred any material product liabilities in excess of the insurance coverages that we have obtained under policies of insurance maintained either by product manufacturers or by us, there is no assurance that we will not incur, in the future, product liabilities in amounts that materially exceed the insurance coverage and indemnification protections that we have and which, as a result, could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Moreover, the risks of incurring liabilities for product defects has increased as a result of our proprietary products strategy, because many of the suppliers of those products are located overseas, making us a more attractive target for product liability claims. Warranty Claims Risks. In certain instances, we have assumed the responsibility for dealing with and resolving product warranty claims from customers. As a result, we have had to establish reserves for potential product warranty claims which has increased our costs of sales. In addition, the amount of those reserves are 9 Table of Contents determined based not only on historical warranty claims experience, but also on estimates of the amount and costs to us of future warranty claims. If the actual number or the costs of warranty claims were to exceed our estimates, it could become necessary for us to increase those reserves, which would result in an increase in our costs of sales and which, as a result, could adversely affect our profit margins and our results of operations. See “MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS – Critical Accounting Policies” below in this Annual Report. Risks of patent infringement claims. We design, or have independent product design firms or manufacturers, design and engineer a number of the proprietary that we introduce into the marketplace. From time to time manufacturers of competing products have threatened and on occasion have brought suits against us claiming that some of our proprietary or foreign sourced products infringe their patents. We retain a patent law firm to review all new products that we plan to introduce into the market for potential patent infringements and that firm works in concert with our product design engineers and independent design firms or manufacturers to ensure that our products do not infringe on patents or other proprietary rights held by competitors. To date we have not incurred any material liability as a result of any patent infringement claims that have been threatened or asserted against us. However, there can be no assurance that we will not incur liability for patent infringement in the future. Additionally, the filing of a patent infringement suit may require us to halt sales or to redesign newly introduced products to avoid patent infringement liability, which could reduce our sales and increase our costs and, thereby, adversely affect our results of operations. We face substantial competition that could lead to declines in net sales or reductions in our gross profits. We face significant competition in each of our markets which can adversely affect our sales, profit margins and operating results. In our RV and boating products markets we face competition not only from other wholesale distributors, but also from mass merchandisers, web retailers, catalog houses and national and regional retail chains that sell RV or boating parts, supplies and accessories. Moreover, due to their size and financial resources, some of those mass merchandisers and national or regional chains are able to purchase such products directly from manufacturers at prices comparable to the prices at which we are able to purchase such products from those same or competing manufacturers. The mass merchandisers, web retailers, and national and regional chains compete directly with the RV and boating dealers, supply stores and service centers that purchase products from us and, therefore, their pricing decisions and the breadth of the products they sell can affect both the volume of our sales and the prices we are able to charge our customers for the same or competing products. Additionally, price competition, particularly from such mass merchandisers and national chains, has been increasing as they seek to maintain and increase their market shares. As a result, in order to remain competitive it could become necessary for us to reduce our prices, including the prices at which we sell our proprietary and Coast branded products, in which event we could lose the price and margin advantages that we have gained from the sale of those products. If we match our competitors’ price reductions, our gross profits and gross margin could be adversely affected. Additionally, we face stiff competition in the sale of portable power generators and other products in the outdoor power equipment market from manufacturers and suppliers of competing products, some of which are larger, have greater marketing and capital resources and are better-known in that market, which could force us to reduce our prices for or prevent us from increasing our sales of those products and could cause us to incur losses as a result of our efforts to sell products in markets other than the RV and boating markets. Risk that our deferred tax asset may not be fully realized. We have recorded, on our balance sheet, a “deferred tax asset” which consists of tax credit and tax loss carryforwards and tax deductions (“tax benefits”) that are available to reduce income taxes that we would otherwise have to pay on the taxable income that we generate in future periods. Under applicable federal and state income tax laws and regulations, such tax benefits will expire at various dates in the future if not used to offset taxes on taxable income by such dates. Accordingly, our ability to fully use this deferred tax asset to reduce our tax liabilities in the future depends on the amount of taxable income that we are able to generate prior to such expiration dates. If we determine that it is no longer more likely, than not, that we will be able to fully utilize the deferred tax asset, we would be required to establish (or increase any existing) valuation allowance to reduce the recorded amount of the deferred tax asset on our balance sheet to the amount of the tax benefits we believe we will be able to use prior to their expiration dates. Such an allowance is established or increased by a non-cash operating charge that would 10 Table of Contents increase the provision for income taxes or reduce any income tax benefit in the fiscal period in which that valuation allowance is established or increased. At December 31, 2010, we had a valuation allowance in the amount of nearly $1.2 million which has reduced the carrying value of our deferred tax asset to $2.7 million. There is no assurance, however, that we will be able to fully utilize this deferred tax asset as that will depend on our future operating results. Moreover, if we are not able to generate taxable income in the future that will enable us to fully utilize this deferred tax asset, it could become necessary for us to increase the valuation allowance in future periods, which would have the effect of increasing our income tax provision or reducing any income tax benefit that we would record in our statements of operations. See “MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS – Critical Accounting Policies” below in this Annual Report. Risk of unanticipated expenses upon new product introduction. The introduction of new proprietary products is important to our future success. We may incur unexpected expenses, however, when we introduce new products. For example, we may experience unexpected engineering or design flaws that will force a recall of a new product. The costs resulting from these types of problems could be substantial, and could have a significant adverse effect on our earnings. Loss of key management. Our future performance is substantially dependent upon the continued services of certain members of our senior management. The loss of the services of any key members of senior management could have a material adverse effect upon us. In addition, our continued growth depends on our ability to attract and retain skilled executives. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain our existing personnel or attract additional qualified executives in the future. Rick of fluctuations in our share price. The market price of our common stock may be subject to significant fluctuations in response to our operating results, our ability to meet market expectations and other factors. Variations in the market price of our common stock may also be the result of changes in the trading characteristics that prevail in the market for our common stock, including low trading volumes, trading volume fluctuations and other similar factors. These market fluctuations, as well as general economic conditions, may adversely affect the market price and the liquidity of our common stock. We cannot assure that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Reliance on our information technology systems exposes us to potential risks. Reliance on our information technology systems exposes us to potential risks such as interruptions due to natural disasters, such as earthquakes or fire, cyber-attacks, unplanned data center and system outages, fraud perpetrated by malicious individuals and other causes. Our information technology systems are hosted in two locations: our headquarters in Morgan Hill, California and at a co-location managed by a third-party provider. Our ability to manage our inventory in a volatile market could adversely affect our profitability. Our success also depends upon our ability to successfully manage our inventory and to anticipate and respond to purchasing trends and customer demands in a timely manner. The use, and therefore the purchases, by consumers of the products we sell can be volatile and uncertain because they can be affected by a number of factors, including general economic and market conditions, competition and consumer preferences, none of which are within our control. We usually must order inventory in advance of each year’s selling season. Moreover, the lead times for many of our purchases (particularly of foreign sourced products) may make it difficult for us to respond rapidly to new or changing product trends, increases or decreases in customer demand or changes in prices. If we misjudge either the market for our products or our customers’ purchasing habits, our revenues may decline significantly and we may have either insufficient quantities of products to satisfy customer demand or we may be required to write down excess inventory, either of which would result in lower earnings. 11 Table of Contents Failure of our internal control over financial reporting could harm our business and financial results. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”). Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting is not intended to provide absolute assurance that we would prevent or detect a misstatement of our financial statements or fraud. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud. The identification of a material weakness could indicate a lack of controls adequate to general accurate financial statements that, in turn, could cause a loss of investor confidence and decline in the market price of our common stock. Other risks and uncertainties. Additional risks and uncertainties that could affect our future financial performance or future financial condition are discussed below in Part II of this Report in the section entitled “MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS” and you are urged to read that section as well. Due to these and other possible uncertainties and risks, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements contained in this Report, which speak only as of the date of this Annual Report. We also disclaim any obligation to update forward-looking information contained in this Report, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may otherwise be required by applicable law or the rules of the American Stock Exchange. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 12 Table of Contents 