Item 1A. Risk Factors Investors should consider carefully the following factors that could cause our operating results and financial condition to be materially adversely affected. New risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our business or financial performance. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other detailed information concerning IPALCO and IPL set forth in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" herein. Our electric generating facilities are subject to operational risks that could result in unscheduled plant outages, unanticipated operation and maintenance expenses and increased fuel or purchased power costs We operate coal-fired generating facilities and gas and oil-fired turbines, which involves certain risks that can adversely affect energy output and efficiency levels. These risks include: increased prices for fuel and fuel transportation as existing contracts expire; facility shutdowns due to a breakdown or failure of equipment or processes or interruptions in fuel supply; disruptions in the delivery of fuel and lack of adequate inventories; labor disputes; inability to comply with regulatory or permit requirements; disruptions in the delivery of electricity; operator error; and catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, floods, terrorist acts or other similar occurrences affecting our generating facilities. The above risks could result in unscheduled plant outages, unanticipated operation and maintenance expenses or increased fuel and purchased power costs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. At times, demand for electric energy could exceed our supply capacity We are currently obligated to supply electric energy in our service territory. From time to time and because of unforeseen circumstances, the demand for electric energy required to meet these obligations could exceed our available electric generating capability. If this occurs, we would have to buy electric energy on the market. We may not always have the ability to pass the costs of purchasing the electric energy on to our customers, and even if we are able to do so, there may be a significant delay between the time the costs are incurred and the time the costs are recovered. Since these situations most often occur during periods of peak demand, it is possible that the market price for electric energy at the time we purchase it could be very high. Even if a supply shortage was brief, we could suffer substantial losses that could diminish our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our electricity business is highly regulated, and any changes in regulations, or adverse regulatory action, could lower revenues, increase costs or provide our customers with a choice of electric supplier through competition As an electric utility, we are subject to extensive regulation at both the federal and state level. At the federal level, we are regulated by the FERC and, at the state level, we are regulated by the IURC. The regulatory power of the IURC over IPL is both comprehensive and typical of the economic regulation generally imposed by state public utility commissions. An inherent business risk facing any regulated public utility is that of unexpected or adverse regulatory action. Regulatory discretion is reasonably broad in Indiana, as it is elsewhere. IPL is subject to regulation by the IURC as to its services and facilities, the valuation of property, the construction, purchase, or lease of electric generating facilities, the classification of accounts, rates of depreciation, the increase or decrease in retail rates and charges, the issuance of securities (other than evidences of indebtedness payable less than twelve months after the date of issue), the acquisition and sale of public utility properties or securities and certain other matters. IPL's tariff rates for electric service to retail customers consist of basic rates and charges and various tracking mechanisms which are set and approved by the IURC after public hearings. Pursuant to statute, the IURC is to conduct a periodic review of the basic rates and charges of all utilities at least once every four years, but the IURC has the authority to review the rates of any utility at any time it chooses. We are unable to predict the outcome of any such review. Proceedings to review our basic rates and charges, which have occurred at irregular intervals, involve IPL, the staff of the IURC, the OUCC and other interested consumer groups and customers. In addition, IPL must seek the approval from the IURC through such public proceedings of its tracking mechanism factors to reflect changes in fuel prices or purchased power costs and for the timely recovery of costs incurred during construction and operation of clean coal technology facilities constructed to comply with environmental laws and regulations. There can be no assurance that IPL will be granted approval of its tracking mechanism factors that it requests from the IURC. The failure of the IURC to approve any requested relief, or any other adverse rate determination by the IURC, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In recent years, federal and state regulation of electric utilities has changed dramatically. On August 8, 2005, the Energy Policy Act of 2005 ("EPAct") was signed into law. Much of the legislation directs the FERC, the Department of Energy, and other agencies to develop rules for the implementation of the EPAct. The EPAct contains provisions specifically related to the electric utility industry including, but not limited to, the following: climate change issues, mandatory reliability standards, amendments to the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act, repeal of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, enactment of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005, clean power initiatives and energy efficiency proposals. The adoption of rules implementing EPAct could adversely affect our business. In addition, competition in wholesale power sales has been introduced at the federal level. Some states have mandated or encouraged competition at the retail level and, in some situations, required divestiture of generating assets. While there is active wholesale competition in Indiana, the retail electric business has remained substantially free from direct competition. Changes in the competitive environment occasioned by legislation or regulation, particularly with respect to retail competition, could adversely affect our business and performance. Our transmission and distribution system is subject to reliability and capacity risks The on-going reliable performance of our transmission and distribution system is subject to risks due to, among other things, weather damage, intentional or unintentional damage, plant outages, labor disputes, operator error, or inoperability of key infrastructure internal or external to IPL. The failure of our transmission and distribution system to fully deliver the energy demanded by customers could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, and if such failures occur too often or for an extended period of time, could result in the IURC requiring us to provide rebates to our customers or subject us to fines or other sanctions. In addition, the advent and quick adaptation of new products and services that require increased levels of electrical energy cannot be predicted and could result in insufficient transmission and distribution system capacity. As with all utilities, potential concern over transmission capacity could result in the Midwest ISO or the FERC requiring IPL to upgrade or expand its transmission system through additional capital expenditures. The Company's disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting were determined not to be effective as of December 31, 2005 due to the material weakness that existed in our internal control over financial reporting. Our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not be effective in future periods, as a result of existing or newly identified material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting. As required by the federal securities laws, our management periodically performs an evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures. "Disclosure controls and procedures" are controls and procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files with the SEC under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified by the SEC's rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to the chief executive officer ("CEO") and chief financial officer ("CFO") to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures. In performing their evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures, our management identified a material weakness in our controls over accounting for deferred income taxes and and the related regulatory assets. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, that adversely affects a company's ability to initiate, authorize, record, process, or report external financial data reliably in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles such that there is a more than remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. For a discussion of this material weakness, see Item 9A of this 2005 annual report on Form 10-K. Due to this material weakness, our management concluded that, as of December 31, 2005, our disclosure controls and procedures were ineffective. As a result of this material weakness, we did not timely file with the SEC our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2005. In addition, the material weakness and the delay in the filing of our quarterly report could have other adverse effects on our business, including, but not limited to: civil litigation or an investigation by the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which could require us to incur significant legal expenses and other costs or to pay damages, fines or other penalties; negative publicity; or the loss or impairment of investor confidence in our company. We still have work remaining to remedy our material weakness. We have developed a remediation plan and have begun implementing this plan, but we cannot assure you as to when the remediation plan will be fully implemented, nor can we assure you that future material weaknesses will not be identified by management or its auditors. Management, including our CEO and CFO, does not expect that our internal controls will prevent or detect all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Any evaluation of the effectiveness of controls is subject to risks that those internal controls may become inadequate in future periods because of changes in business conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures deteriorates. In addition, the effect of new, or changes in, accounting policies and practices and the application of such policies and practices could adversely affect our business. Our participation in the Midwest ISO network involves risks IPL is a member of the Midwest ISO, a FERC approved regional transmission organization. The Midwest ISO serves the electrical transmission needs of much of the Midwest and maintains operational control over IPL's electric transmission facilities as well as that of the other Midwest utility members of the Midwest ISO. As a result of the Midwest ISO's operational control over much of the Midwestern electric transmission grid, including IPL's transmission facilities, IPL's continued ability to import power, when necessary, and export power to the wholesale market has been, and may continue to be, impacted. Given the nature of the Midwest ISO's policies regarding use of transmission facilities, as well as ongoing FERC initiatives and uncertainties around the fully functioning or "Midwest ISO Day 2" energy market operations, it is difficult to predict near term operational impacts. While it is believed that the Midwest ISO's regional operation of the transmission system will ultimately lead to reliability improvements, we cannot be sure that this will occur. At the federal level, there are business risks for IPL associated with multiple proceedings pending before the FERC related to our membership and participation in the MISO. These proceedings involve such issues as transmission rates, construction of new transmission facilities, capacity markets, regional transmission organizations and generator dispatch. We currently cannot predict the impact of these proceedings on our financial position, liquidity or results of operations, but the impact could be negative. To the extent that IPL relies, at least in part, on the performance of the Midwest ISO to maintain the reliability of IPL's transmission and distribution system, it puts the company at risk for the performance of the Midwest ISO. In addition, actions taken by the Midwest ISO to secure the reliable operation of the entire transmission and distribution system operated by the Midwest ISO could result in voltage reductions, rolling blackouts, or sustained system wide blackouts on IPL's transmission and distribution system, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The potential need to expend capital for improvements to the transmission system, both to IPL's facilities as well as to those facilities of other Midwest ISO members, over the next several years should become more predictable as the Midwest ISO completes studies related to regional transmission planning and improvements and FERC rules and cost recovery allocations are finalized. The Midwest ISO and its members are engaged in a process, as directed by FERC, to develop and include in its tariff, methodologies for sharing transmission expansion and upgrade costs. Such expenditures may be significant and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our ownership by AES subjects us to potential risks that are beyond our control All of our common stock is owned by our parent company, AES. The interests of AES may differ from the interests of IPALCO, IPL or any of their creditors or other stakeholders. Further, due to our relationship with AES, any adverse developments and announcements concerning them may affect our ability to access the capital markets and to otherwise conduct our business. In particular, downgrades in AES's credit ratings could potentially result in our or IPL's credit ratings being downgraded. IPALCO's common stock is pledged under AES' Amended and Restated Credit and Reimbursement Agreement as well as AES' Collateral Trust Agreement. General economic conditions may adversely affect our business Our business is affected by general economic conditions. In particular, the projected growth in Indianapolis is important to the realization of our forecasts for annual energy sales growth. An unanticipated downturn in the Indianapolis economy could adversely affect our expected performance. Parties providing construction materials or services may fail to perform their obligations, which could harm our results of operations. Our construction program calls for extensive investment in capital improvements and additions, including the installation of environmental upgrades, improvements to transmission and distribution facilities as well as other initiatives. As a result, we have engaged numerous contractors and entered into a number of agreements to acquire the necessary materials and/or obtain the required construction related services. This exposes us to the risk that these contractors and other counterparties could fail to perform. In addition, some contracts provide for us to assume the risk of price escalation and availability of certain metals and key components. This could force us to enter into alternative arrangements at then-current market prices that may exceed our contractual prices and almost certainly cause delays in that and related projects. Although our agreements are designed to mitigate the consequences of a potential default by the counterparty, our actual exposure may be greater than these mitigation provisions. This would cause our financial results to be diminished, and we might incur losses or delays in completing construction. More than half of IPL's supply of coal that it uses to generate substantially all of its electricity comes from one supplier. In 2005, over 99% of the total kWhs produced by IPL was generated from coal. IPL's existing coal contracts provide for all of its current projected requirements in 2006 and approximately 88% through 2009. IPL has long-term coal contracts with three suppliers. Approximately 61% of IPL's contracted coal is from one supplier. IPL has entered into three long term contracts with this supplier for the provision of coal from three separate mines. Any significant disruption in the delivery of coal from this supplier, or any failure on the part of this supplier to fulfill its contractual obligation to deliver coal to us, could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we had to find another supplier of coal, there can be no assurance that we would be able to purchase coal on similarly favorable terms. Catastrophic events could adversely affect our facilities, systems and operations Catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, terrorist acts or natural disasters such as floods, earthquakes or tornadoes, or other similar occurrences could adversely affect our generation facilities, transmission and distribution systems, operations, earnings and cash flow. Our Petersburg Plant is located in the Wabash Valley seismic zone, adjacent to the New Madrid seismic zone, areas of significant seismic activity in the central United States. Our business is sensitive to variations in weather and seasonal variations Our business is affected by variations in general weather conditions and unusually severe weather. We forecast electric sales on the basis of normal weather, which represents historical averages. Significant variations from normal weather (such as warmer winters and cooler summers) could have a material impact on our revenue, operating income and net income. Storms that interrupt our services to our customers have in the past required us, and in the future may require us, to incur significant costs to restore services. We could incur significant capital expenditures to comply with environmental laws and regulations We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things, the generation, storage, handling, use, disposal and transportation of hazardous materials; the emission and discharge of hazardous and other materials into the environment; and the health and safety of our employees. These laws and regulations often require a lengthy and complex process of obtaining and renewing permits and other governmental authorizations from federal, state and local agencies. A violation of these laws, regulations or permits can result in substantial fines, other sanctions, permit revocation and/or facility shutdowns. Although we believe that we are in material compliance with environmental laws, regulations and permits and health and safety laws, we cannot assure you that we have been or will be at all times in full compliance with such laws, regulations and permits. Under certain environmental laws, we could be held responsible for costs relating to contamination at our past or present facilities and at third party waste disposal sites. We could also be held liable for human exposure to such hazardous substances or for other environmental damage. We cannot assure that our costs of complying with current and future environmental and health and safety laws, and our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances will not adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. In particular, the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 required electric utilities to substantially reduce its emissions of SO2. Historically, IPL has met those reductions via a bank of allowances which developed primarily from the early installation of pollution control equipment coupled with the allocations of allowances from the Environmental Protection Agency. In 2005, the bank became depleted and IPL is projected to be in an SO2 allowance shortfall position for 2006 and 2007. IPL has met the majority of its 2006 projected shortfall by purchasing 11,400 allowances through March 16, 2006 at a total cost of $10.5 million. The remaining projected shortfall for 2006 and 2007 will be met by one of several mechanisms including, but not limited to, purchasing the allowances on the open market or conducting allowance swaps from future year allocations, when IPL is expected to have more allowances than needed to meet EPA requirements. During 2006 and 2007, we expect to place additional clean coal technology in service, which will help reduce our SO2 emissions and therefore help to reduce our future emissions costs. At this time, we cannot predict the total exposure to the SO2 allowance market for 2006 and 2007 but it will likely be material. Our capital expenditures relating to environmental matters were approximately $56 million in 2005, substantially all of which related to the NOx SIP call and Multipollutant Plan. We currently estimate total additional capital expenditures related to environmental matters of approximately $115 million, $48 million and $8 million during 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively. The costs of future environmental compliance, especially compliance with clean air laws, could be significant. In addition, any changes in compliance requirements or the interpretation by governmental authorities of existing requirements may impose additional costs on us or require us to curtail some of our business activities. Although we believe we are legally entitled to recover these costs, if we cannot recover these costs in a timely manner, or in an amount sufficient to cover our actual costs, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted. Commodity price changes may affect the operating costs and competitive position of our business Our business is sensitive to changes in the price of coal, the primary fuel we use to produce electricity, and to a lesser extent, to the changes in price of natural gas, purchased power and emission credits. Any changes in coal prices could affect the prices we charge, our operating costs and our competitive position with respect to our products and services. While we have approximately 88% of our current coal requirements through 2009 under long-term contracts, the balance is purchased under short-term contracts and on the spot market where prices can be highly volatile. We are also dependent on purchased power, in part, to meet our seasonal planning reserve margins. Our exposure to fluctuations in the price of coal is limited because pursuant to Indiana law, IPL may apply to the IURC for a change in its fuel charge every three (3) months to recover its estimated fuel costs, which may be above or below the levels included in IPL's base rates. In addition, IPL may recover its purchased power costs in these quarterly fuel adjustment charge proceedings. IPL must present evidence in each proceeding that it has made every reasonable effort to acquire fuel and generate or purchase power or both so as to provide electricity to its retail customers at the lowest fuel cost reasonably possible. However, these risks are not mitigated with respect to customers and services that are not subject to the fuel adjustment charge, including those customers who have opted under our Elect Plan to either pay a guaranteed fixed rate per unit of consumption or pay the same amount each month, regardless of how much electricity is used, because fuel and purchased power costs are not subject to the fuel adjustment charge with respect to these customers or services. Together, such customers and services made up approximately 12% of our electric energy sales during 2005. Further, increases in fuel and purchased power costs affect electric prices and therefore the competitive position of electricity against other energy sources. We are subject to employee workforce factors that could affect our businesses and financial condition We are subject to employee workforce factors, including loss or retirement of key personnel, availability of qualified personnel, collective bargaining agreements with employees and work stoppage that could affect our businesses and financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our net pension plan obligations may require additional significant contributions We participate in a defined benefit pension plan for our employees. Pension costs are based upon a number of actuarial assumptions, including an expected long-term rate of return on pension plan assets, the expected life span of pension plan beneficiaries and the discount rate used to determine the present value of future pension obligations. Any of these assumptions could prove to be wrong, resulting in a shortfall of pension plan assets compared to pension obligations under the pension plan. We are responsible for funding any shortfall of pension plan assets compared to pension obligations under the pension plan. Our pension plan assets consist of investments in equity, real estate, fixed income securities and cash. The downturn in the securities markets during 2000 through 2002 affected the value of our pension plan assets. In addition, decreases in long-term corporate bond rates have increased the measured liability for funding purposes. As a result, our funding obligations increased substantially. We made total cash contributions to the Pension Plans of $17.6 million, $6.1 million and $96.1 million in the years 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Depending on the timing of contributions, pending legislation, and other factors relating to the funding strategy, we anticipate additional program-related cash contributions for pension benefits of approximately $30 to $50 million in 2006. We anticipate federal pension legislation will be adopted this spring, and any such legislation could increase our funding obligations significantly. Future downturns in the equity markets, or the failure of any of our assumptions underlying our estimate of our pension plan obligations to prove correct, could increase the underfunding of the pension plan. This may necessitate additional cash contributions to the pension plan that could adversely affect our liquidity. We rely on access to the capital markets, so the inability to maintain current credit ratings and access capital markets on favorable terms would likely increase interest costs or adversely affect liquidity and cash flow From time to time we rely on access to capital markets as a source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by operating cash flows. The inability of IPL or IPALCO to maintain their current credit ratings could affect their ability to raise capital on favorable terms, particularly during times of uncertainty in the capital markets. From time to time, we are subject to material litigation and regulatory proceedings We may be subject to material litigation, regulatory proceedings, administrative proceedings, settlements, investigations and claims from time to time. There can be no assurance that the outcome of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Please refer to Note 11 of the attached audited consolidated financial statements of IPALCO for a summary of significant legal proceedings involving IPALCO and/or IPL. The level of our indebtedness, and the security provided for this indebtedness, could adversely affect our financial flexibility As of December 31, 2005, we had on a consolidated basis $1.44 billion principal amount of outstanding long-term indebtedness and total common shareholder's deficit of ($126.4) million. The Senior Secured Notes of IPALCO in the principal amount of $750 million are secured by IPALCO's pledge of all the outstanding common stock of IPL. IPL had $692.7 million of First Mortgage Bonds outstanding as of December 31, 2005, which are secured by the pledge of substantially all of the assets of IPL under the terms of IPL's Mortgage and Deed of Trust. This level of indebtedness and related security could have important consequences to you, including the following: increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund other corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds, as needed. We expect to incur additional debt in the future, subject to the terms of our debt agreements and regulatory approvals. To the extent we become more leveraged, the risks described above would increase. Further, our actual cash requirements in the future may be greater than expected. Accordingly, our cash flow from operations may not be sufficient to repay at maturity all of the outstanding debt as it becomes due and, in that event, we may not be able to borrow money, sell assets or otherwise raise funds on acceptable terms or at all to refinance our debt as it becomes due. IPALCO is a holding company and is dependent on IPL for dividends to meet its debt service obligations IPALCO is a holding company with no material assets other than the common stock of its subsidiaries, and accordingly all cash is generated by the operating activities of our subsidiaries, principally IPL. None of our subsidiaries, including IPL, is obligated on our Senior Secured Notes, and none of our subsidiaries will guarantee the notes; however, the common stock of IPL is pledged to secure payment of these notes. Accordingly, our ability to make payments on the notes is dependent not only on the ability of our subsidiaries to generate cash in the future, but also on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute cash to us. IPL's mortgage and deed of trust and its amended articles of incorporation contain restrictions on IPL's ability to issue certain securities or pay cash dividends to us. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources" for a discussion of these restrictions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 