ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Statements contained in this Annual Report that are not historical facts or that discuss our expectations, beliefs or views regarding our future operations or future financial performance or trends in our business or markets constitute “forward-looking statements.” Forward-looking statements contain estimates or predictions about our future financial performance or future financial condition, or are statements about our views regarding financial or market trends that may affect our future results of operations. Such statements are based on current information and our business is subject to a number of risks, market conditions and uncertainties that could cause our actual operating results or our financial performance or financial condition in future periods to differ, possibly significantly, from our current expectations and beliefs that are set forth in the forward looking statements contained in this report. Those risks and uncertainties include, although they are not limited to, the following: Our business and financial performance are affected by economic conditions. Our sales are affected directly by the level of purchases and the usage by consumers of RVs and boats which, in turn, is dependent on the ability and willingness of consumers to spend money to make purchases of and to use their RVs and boats. As a result, our sales are affected primarily by (i) the discretionary income that consumers have to spend, (ii) their confidence about economic conditions which determines the willingness of consumers to spend their discretionary income, (iii) the availability of and the interest rates payable on borrowings, including credit card debt, to help consumers finance their purchases of and the costs of using RVs and boats, and (iv) the availability and prices of gasoline, which affect the ability and cost of operating and using their RVs and boats. As a result, our sales and earnings in the past have been, and our future sales and earnings can be, adversely affected by the following conditions: • Economic downturns and recessions, which result in declines in discretionary income of and a loss of confidence among consumers about economic conditions and their own economic well-being and security, which cause them to reduce their purchases and usage of RVs and boats; • A tightening in the availability and increases in the costs of borrowings and consumer credit on which consumers rely to supplement their own funds when purchasing new and used RVs and boats and paying to maintain and purchase supplies and accessories for their RVs and boats; and • Increases in the prices and shortages in the supply of gasoline, which increase the costs and sometimes even the ability and, therefore, the willingness of consumers to purchase and use RVs and boats. Our results of operations in 2008 illustrate the impact that adverse economic and market conditions can have on our business and financial performance. The current economic recession, which is reported to have begun in late 2007, became quite severe in the second half of 2008 and has had wide-ranging consequences for the economy as a whole and has created serious and unprecedented difficulties for the RV and boating industries in particular. The recession began with dramatic declines in home prices and increases in mortgage loan delinquencies and home foreclosures that, in turn, led banks and other lending institutions to significantly curtail the availability of credit to both businesses and consumers. Those conditions resulted in a considerable decline in economic activity throughout the country and sharp and rapid drops in the prices of stocks and bonds, which led to rapid increases in unemployment and significant declines in the retirement savings of consumers that significantly reduced their discretionary income and caused them to lose confidence in the economy and in their own economic security. As a result, consumers significantly curtailed their purchases and usage of RVs and boats which, in turn, significantly reduced their need for and purchases of the products we sell. Due to these conditions and circumstances, our sales declined by 19.5% and we incurred a net loss of $1.8 million in, and the price of our shares (as well as the shares price of other RV and boating companies) declined significantly during, the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008. See “MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS” in Part II of this Report. These conditions also adversely impacted other companies in the RV and boating markets and led to the bankruptcies of well-known RV manufacturers, such as Fleetwood Enterprises and Monaco Coach, and the sale by Coachmen Industries of its RV manufacturing business, during the first quarter of 2009 and significant declines in sales during 2008 of other RV and boating products companies such as Winnebago and West Marine. There still are considerable uncertainties with respect to the ultimate duration and severity of the current economic recession and credit crisis. As a result, we expect that consumers will continue to be reluctant to increase their spending generally or their purchases and usage of RVs and boats, in particular, at least during the first half of 2009. Consequently, we have been implementing programs designed to enable us to gain market share, increase our profit margins and reduce our costs in order to offset the effects that these economic and market conditions could have on our results of operations during 2009. However, due those uncertainties, it is not possible to predict, with any degree of accuracy, whether or not these programs will enable us to achieve improvements in our results of operations in 2009, as compared to 2008. 6 Table of Contents For a more detailed discussion of how these economic conditions affected our results of operation and financial condition in 2008, see “MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS” below, in Part II of this Report. The current economic recession and credit crisis could have longer term adverse consequences for our business and future financial performance. The current economic recession and credit crisis have led to the closure or bankruptcies of many RV and boating dealers and a number of well-known RV manufacturers which could significantly reduce the size of the RV and boating markets and the number of our After-Market Customers and, therefore, adversely affect our business, sales, gross profit margins and future financial performance. In addition, the spending habits of consumers who purchase and use RVs and boats may change as a result of the current economic recession and credit crisis, because consumers may choose, even after the economy recovers, to reduce their spending and use of consumer credit, which could result in a decline in their purchases and usage of RVs and boats and, therefore, in their need for and purchases of the products we sell. Also, owners of RVs and boats may increasingly choose to purchase RV and boating parts, supplies and accessories from lower cost sellers, such as mass merchandisers and web-based retailers, instead of from independent dealers, supply stores and service centers that purchase products from us, which could adversely affect our market share, pricing, and sales revenues and, as a result, our future financial performance. Our business is seasonal and our financial performance can be adversely affected by unusual weather conditions. Our business is seasonal, because consumers generally increase their purchases and usage of RVs and boats and, therefore, increase their purchases of the products we sell, primarily in the spring and summer months, which coincide with our second and third fiscal quarters; whereas, such purchases and usage declines in the late fall and in the winter months, which coincide with the fourth and first quarters of our fiscal year. As a result, as a general rule our sales are higher and our financial performance is better in our second and third fiscal quarters than in our fourth and first fiscal quarters, during which we often incur losses. However, the occurrence of unusually severe or extended winter weather conditions can adversely affect our operating results in our second and third fiscal quarters, and can lead to more severe swings in our sales and financial performance, because such conditions can have the effect of reducing the usage of RV and boats for periods extending beyond the ordinary winter months or to regions that ordinarily encounter milder winter weather conditions. We rely heavily on bank borrowings in the operation of our business, which makes us more vulnerable to adverse changes in economic conditions. We rely heavily on bank borrowings to fund our working capital requirements and capital expenditures. Our outstanding borrowings create additional risks for our business. Among other things, we may find it more difficult to obtain additional financing to fund expansion or take advantage of other business opportunities, and we use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay the principal of and interest on our debt. Our existing debt also makes us more vulnerable to general economic downturns and competitive pressures, which could cause us to fail to meet financial covenants in our bank loan agreement. Due to the loss we incurred in 2008, we failed to meet the tangible net worth covenant as of December 31, 2008 applicable to our revolving bank line of credit. As a condition to the bank’s waiver of the default that would have resulted from such failure, we entered into an agreement with the bank which amended our bank loan agreement. That amendment (i) reduces the maximum amount of our borrowings that may be outstanding at any one time under our revolving credit facility to a maximum of $25 million or 50% of our eligible inventory and 80% of our eligible accounts receivable, whichever is less, (ii) provides that the bank may reduce the respective percentages of eligible inventory and eligible accounts receivable that will determine the maximum amount of our borrowings that may be outstanding under the credit facility at any one time, (iii) substitutes, for the annual tangible net worth covenant, a quarterly pre-tax income covenant that will require us to generate profits during at least one quarter of fiscal 2009 and to reduce our net loss in 2009 as compared to 2008, and (iv) increases the rate at which interest is payable on borrowings under that credit line from prime plus 0.25% per annum to prime plus 2.25% per annum, or Libor plus 4% per annum, which will increase our borrowing costs. These amendments will make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and competitive pressures, as we will have less borrowing capacity to meet our working capital requirements in the event that internally generated cash flow declines as a result of the economic recession or other adverse conditions. In such an event, we could be forced to reduce our purchases of inventory and tighten the payment terms we extend to our customers, or shut down some of our distribution centers, which would adversely affect our results of operations in 2009. Moreover, there is no assurance that we will be able to meet the new pre-tax income covenant in the amendment agreement with the bank. A failure to meet that covenant could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See “MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS,” in Part II of this Report for additional information regarding the amendments to the terms of our revolving bank line of credit. Risks of our reliance on sole sources of supply for certain of our products. We sometimes choose to carry only a single manufacturer’s products for certain of the third party brand-name product lines that we sell. In addition, we obtain each of our proprietary products from a single source manufacturer, although in many instances we own the tooling required for their manufacture. Dependence on a single manufacturer for any product or line of related products, however, presents some risks, including the risk that we will be unable to 7 Table of Contents readily obtain alternative product supply sources in the event that a single source supplier (i) encounters quality or other manufacturing problems, or (ii) decides to enter into an exclusive supply arrangement or alliance with a competing distributor, or to vertically integrate its operations to include not only manufacturing, but also distribution, of its products. If any of our single source suppliers were to encounter any manufacturing problems or disruptions or terminate our supply relationship, our sales and earnings could decline, possibly to a significant extent. Our financial results can be and sometimes have been adversely affected by changes in supply relationships in our markets. As is the customary practice in our markets, in most instances we do not have long term supply contracts with our product suppliers. As a result, product suppliers are free to change the terms on which they sell us products or to discontinue supplying us with products altogether, because they may choose to distribute their products directly to after-market dealers or because they might choose to establish exclusive supply relationships with other distributors. Additionally, manufacturers of new RVs and boats may choose to incorporate optional equipment on their RVs and boats at the time of manufacture that, historically, were provided to their dealers by distributors such as the Company. Any of these occurrences could result in increased competition in our markets or could reduce the number of products we are able to offer our customers, which could cause our sales to decline and could result in lower margins and in reduced earnings. Our financial performance is subject to risks arising out of our proprietary products strategy. In order to increase our sales and reduce our costs of sales and, thereby increase our profitability, we have introduced into the RV and boating markets a growing number of proprietary products, which are manufactured specifically for us, generally on an exclusive basis, by a number of different manufacturers, primarily based in Asia. More recently, we have begun sourcing and purchasing, from overseas suppliers, and marketing and selling a number of new products, such as portable and standby generators, into new markets. We do not have experience in marketing and selling such products, and there is no assurance that these products will gain acceptance among customers, in those markets. We also have encountered stiff competition from companies that manufacture or sell competing products for those same markets. Many of those companies are larger, more established and better known and have greater financial and marketing resources than we have. Also, we have greater responsibilities in marketing and providing warranty protection and service for these products, as compared to the products we source from traditional suppliers for resale in the RV or boating markets. There is no assurance that we will be successful in marketing and selling these products, and the costs we incur in doing so may reduce our earnings or possibly even cause us to incur losses and we could encounter liabilities for possible warranty claims related to these products. Our financial performance can be adversely affected due to our increased reliance on foreign product suppliers. As we increase our reliance on foreign suppliers, we may become increasingly vulnerable to the effects of political instability and adverse economic conditions in the countries in which those suppliers are located. Additionally, while we pay for the products we purchase in foreign countries in U.S. dollars, and therefore, those purchases do not expose us to currency exchange risks, a weakening U.S. dollar may lead foreign suppliers to increase the prices they charge us for their products in order to mitigate their currency exchange risk. Such price increases could reduce the margin advantage that we have realized on our resale of those products. We are subject to product liability risks. Although we do not manufacture any of the products we sell, it is not uncommon for us to be named as an additional defendant in product liability lawsuits brought against the manufacturers of the products we sell. To protect ourselves from liability, we have been able in many instances to obtain indemnification agreements from these manufacturers or to be named as additional insureds under their product liability insurance policies. Nevertheless, we also maintain our own product liability insurance. We also conduct quality control testing, at our own product testing laboratories in the United States, of proprietary products that we import from Asia. However, although we have never incurred any material product liabilities in excess of the insurance coverages that we have obtained under policies of insurance maintained either by product manufacturers or by us, there is no assurance that we will not incur, in the 8 Table of Contents future, product liabilities in amounts that materially exceed the insurance coverage and indemnification protections that we have and which, as a result, could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Moreover, the risks of incurring liabilities for product defects has increased as a result of our proprietary products strategy, because many of the suppliers of those products are located overseas, making us a more attractive target for product liability claims. Risks of patent infringement claims. We design, or have independent product design firms or manufacturers, design and engineer, many of the proprietary products and other foreign sourced products that we introduce into the marketplace. From time to time manufacturers of competing products have threatened and on occasion suits have been brought against us claiming that some of our proprietary or foreign sourced products infringe their patents. We retain a patent law firm to review all new products that we plan to introduce into the market for potential patent infringements and that firm works in concert with our product design engineers and independent design firms or manufacturers to ensure that our products do not infringe on patents or other proprietary rights held by competitors. To date we have not incurred any material liability as a result of any patent infringement claims that have been threatened or asserted against us. However, there can be no assurance that we will not incur liability for patent infringement in the future. Additionally, the filing of a patent infringement suit may require us to halt sales or to redesign newly introduced products to avoid patent infringement liability, which could reduce our sales and increase our costs and, thereby, adversely affect our results of operations. We face substantial competition that could lead to declines in net sales or reductions in our gross profits. We face significant competition in each of our markets which can adversely affect our sales, profit margins and operating results. In our RV and boating products markets we face competition not only from other wholesale distributors, but also from mass merchandisers, web retailers, catalog houses and national and regional retail chains that sell RV or boating parts, supplies and accessories and, due to their size and financial resources, are able to purchase such products directly from manufacturers at prices comparable to the prices at which we are able to purchase such products from those same or competing manufacturers. The mass merchandisers, web retailers, and national and regional chains compete directly with the RV and boating dealers, supply stores and service centers that purchase products from us and, therefore, their pricing decisions and the breadth of the products they sell can affect both the volume of our sales and the prices we are able to charge our customers for the same or competing products. Moreover, price competition, particularly from such mass merchandisers and national chains, has been increasing as they seek to maintain and increase their market shares in this difficult economy. As a result, in order to remain competitive it could become necessary for us to reduce our prices, including the prices at which we sell our proprietary and brand name products, in which event we could lose the price advantages that we have gained from the sale of those products. On the other hand, if we match our competitors’ price reductions, our gross profits and gross margin could be adversely affected. Additionally, we face stiff competition in the sale of our line of portable and standby power generators in the outdoor power equipment market from manufacturers and suppliers of competing products, some of which are larger, have greater marketing and capital resources and are better-known in that market, which could force us to reduce our prices for or prevent us from increasing our sales of those products. Risk that our deferred tax asset may not be fully realized. We have recorded, on our balance sheet, a “deferred tax asset” which consists of tax credit and tax loss carryforwards and tax deductions (“tax benefits”) that are available to reduce income taxes that we would otherwise have to pay on our taxable income that we generate in future periods. Under applicable federal and state income tax laws and regulations, such tax benefits will expire at various dates in the future if not used to offset taxes on taxable income by such dates. Accordingly, our ability to fully use this deferred tax asset to reduce our tax liabilities in the future depends on the amount of taxable income that we are able to generate prior to such expiration dates. If we determine that it is no longer more likely than not that we will be able to fully utilize the deferred tax asset, SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes (SFAS 109”), requires us to establish a non-cash valuation allowance to reduce the recorded amount of the deferred tax asset to the amount of the tax benefits we believe we will be able to use prior to their expiration dates. Such an allowance is established by an operating charge which will have the effect of increasing our provision for income taxes or reducing any income tax benefit in the fiscal period in which that allowance is established. During 2008, we established such a valuation allowance in the amount of nearly $1.2 million which reduced the carrying value of our deferred tax asset to $3.0 million at December 31, 2008. There is no assurance, however, that we will be able to fully utilize this deferred tax asset as that will depend on our future operating results. However, because our future income can be affected by events, conditions and circumstances outside of our control (as is discussed in the above risk factors), there is no assurance that we will generate taxable income in the future that will enable us to fully utilize this deferred tax asset. As a result, it may become necessary for us to increase the valuation allowance in future periods, which would have the effect of increasing our income tax provision or reducing any income tax benefit that we would record in our statements of operations. Other risks and uncertainties. Additional risks and uncertainties that could affect our future financial performance or future financial condition are discussed below in Part II of this Report in the section entitled “MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS” and you are urged to read that section as well. Due to these and other possible uncertainties and risks, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements contained in this Report, which speak only as of the date of this Annual Report. We also disclaim any obligation to update forward-looking information contained in this Report, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may otherwise be required by applicable law or the rules of the American Stock Exchange. 9 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 