RISK FACTORS Statements contained in this Annual Report that are not historical facts or that discuss our expectations regarding our future operations or future financial performance or trends in our business constitute “forward-looking statements.” Forward-looking statements are estimates or predictions of our future financial performance or financial condition, or are statements about financial or market trends that may affect our future results of operations, which are based upon current information and which are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual operating results or our financial performance or condition in future periods to differ significantly from those expected at the current time. Those risks and uncertainties include, although they are not limited to, the following: Our Business is Seasonal and is Subject to Various Economic and Climatic Influences. Our sales are affected directly by the purchase and usage levels of RVs and boats. The purchase and usage of RVs and boats are affected by consumers’ level of discretionary income and their confidence about economic conditions; the availability and prices of gasoline; prevailing interest rates; and weather conditions. As a result, our future sales and earnings can be, and in the past have been, adversely affected by the following: • Loss of confidence among consumers regarding economic conditions and the onset of economic recessions, which cause consumers to reduce their purchases and usage of RVs and boats; • Increases in the prices and shortages in the supply of gasoline, which increase the cost of using, and the willingness of consumers to purchase and use, RVs and boats; 5 Table of Contents • Increases in interest rates which affect the availability and affordability of financing for RVs and boats and accessories for RVs and boats; • Unusually severe or extended winter weather conditions, which can reduce the usage of RV and boats for periods extending beyond the ordinary winter months or to regions that ordinarily encounter milder winter weather conditions and which cause period-to-period fluctuations in our sales and financial performance. These conditions also often lead to increased price competition in our markets which could force us to reduce our prices, thereby reducing sales revenue and our gross profit margins and earnings. Reliance on Sole Sources of Supply for Certain of our Products. We sometimes choose to carry only a single manufacturer’s products for certain of the brand-name product lines that we sell. In addition, we obtain each of our proprietary products from a single source manufacturer, although in many instances we own the tooling required for their manufacture. Dependence on a single manufacturer for any product or line of related products, however, presents some risks, including the risk that we will be unable to readily obtain alternative product supply sources in the event that a single source supplier (i) encounters quality or other manufacturing problems, or (ii) decides to enter into an exclusive supply arrangement or alliance with a competing distributor, or to vertically integrate its operations to include not only manufacturing, but also distribution, of its products. If any of our single source suppliers were to encounter any manufacturing problems or disruptions or terminate our supply relationship, our sales and earnings could decline, possibly to a significant extent. The Effects of Possible Changes in Supply Relationships in Our Markets. As is the customary practice in our markets, in most instances we do not have long term supply contracts with our product suppliers. As a result, product suppliers are free to change the terms on which they sell us products or to discontinue supplying us with products altogether, because they may choose to distribute their products directly to after-market dealers or because they might choose to establish exclusive supply relationships with other distributors. Additionally, manufacturers of new RVs and boats may choose to incorporate optional equipment on their RVs and boats at the time of manufacture that, historically were provided to their dealers by distributors such as the Company. Any of these occurrences could result in increased competition in our markets or reduce the number of products we are able to offer our customers, which could cause our sales to decline and could result in lower margins and in reduced earnings. We rely heavily on bank borrowings in the operation of our business. We rely heavily on bank borrowings to fund our working capital requirements and capital expenditures. Our outstanding borrowings create additional risks for our business. Among other things, we may find it more difficult to obtain additional financing to fund expansion or take advantage of other business opportunities, and we use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay the principal of and interest on our debt. Our existing debt also makes us more vulnerable to general economic downturns and competitive pressures, which could cause us to fail to meet financial covenants in our bank loan agreement and, as discussed in the Section of this Report entitled “MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS,” the interest we have to pay on such debt impacts our operating results. Risks Related to New Proprietary Products Strategy. We have begun sourcing and buying from overseas manufacturers and marketing and selling new products into new markets. We do not have experience in marketing and selling products in some of those markets and there is no assurance that these products will gain acceptance among customers in those markets. We also expect to encounter stiff competition from companies that manufacture or market competing products. We expect that many of those companies will be larger and will have greater financial and marketing resources than we have. Also, we will have greater responsibilities in marketing and providing warranty protection and service for these products. There is no assurance that we will be successful in marketing and selling these products, and the costs we incur in doing so may reduce our earnings or possibly even cause us to incur losses and we could encounter liabilities for possible warranty claims related to these products. Product Liability Risks. Although we do not manufacture any of the products we sell, it is not uncommon for us to be named as an additional defendant in product liability lawsuits brought against the product manufacturers. To protect ourselves from liability, we have been able in many instances to obtain indemnification agreements from these manufacturers or to be named as additional insureds under their product liability insurance policies. Nevertheless, we also maintain our own product liability insurance. Although we have never incurred any material product liabilities in excess of the insurance coverages that we have obtained under policies of insurance maintained by product manufacturers or by us, there is no assurance that we will not incur, in the future, product liabilities in amounts that materially exceed the insurance coverage and indemnification protections that we have. 6 Table of Contents No Assurance that We Will Be Able to Fund Cash Dividends Pursuant to our Dividend Policy. Although the Board of Directors has adopted a cash dividend policy that provides for regular quarterly cash dividends of $0.05 per share, the payment of cash dividends in the future will depend on a number of factors, including, but not limited, to our future financial performance and our available cash resources and the cash requirements of our business and, possibly also, the consents of third parties, such as the lender under our revolving credit facility. As a result, there can be no assurance that future quarterly cash dividends will be equal to the $0.05 per share called for by our current dividend policy or that we will not find it necessary to suspend or even terminate the payment of cash dividends in the future. Additional uncertainties and risks that could affect our future financial performance or future financial condition are discussed above in Part I of this Report, entitled “BUSINESS” and in the Section of this Report entitled “MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION” and you are urged to read those sections as well. Due to these and other possible uncertainties and risks, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements contained in this Report, which speak only as of the date of this Annual Report. We also disclaim any obligation to update forward-looking information contained in this Report, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 