ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investors should consider carefully the following risk factors that could cause our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows to be materially adversely affected. New risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our business or financial performance. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other detailed information concerning IPALCO Enterprises, Inc. and Indianapolis Power & Light Company set forth in the Notes to audited Consolidated Financial Statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” and in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” herein. Our electric generating facilities are subject to operational risks that could result in: unscheduled plant outages, unanticipated operation, maintenance expenses, increased fuel or purchased power costs, and other significant liabilities. We operate coal, oil and natural gas generating facilities, which involve certain risks that can adversely affect energy output and efficiency levels. These risks include: increased prices for fuel and fuel transportation as existing contracts expire; facility shutdowns due to a breakdown or failure of equipment or processes; disruptions in the availability or delivery of fuel and lack of adequate inventories; labor disputes; reliability of our suppliers; inability to comply with regulatory or permit requirements; disruptions in the delivery of electricity; operator error; and catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, terrorist acts, acts of war, pandemic events, or natural disasters such as floods, earthquakes, tornadoes or other similar occurrences affecting our generating facilities. The above risks could result in unscheduled plant outages, unanticipated operation and maintenance expenses, increased capital expenditures, and/or increased fuel and purchased power costs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Additionally, as a result of the above risks and other potential hazards associated with the power generation and distribution industries, we may from time to time become exposed to significant liabilities for which we may not have adequate insurance coverage. Power generation involves hazardous activities, including acquiring, transporting and unloading fuel, operating large pieces of rotating equipment and delivering electricity to transmission and distribution systems. In addition to natural risks, such as earthquakes, floods, lightning, tornadoes and wind, hazards, such as fire, explosion, collapse and machinery failure, are inherent risks in our operations which may occur as a result of inadequate internal processes, technological flaws, human error or certain external events. The control and management of these risks depend upon adequate development and training of personnel and on the existence of operational procedures, preventative maintenance plans and specific programs supported by quality control systems which reduce, but do not eliminate the possibility of the occurrence and impact of these risks. The hazards described above can cause significant personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property, plant and equipment, contamination of, or damage to, the environment and suspension of operations. The occurrence of any one of these events may result in us being named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting claims for substantial damages, environmental cleanup costs, personal injury and fines and/or penalties. We maintain an amount of insurance protection that we believe is adequate, but there can be no assurance that our insurance will be sufficient or effective under all circumstances and against all hazards or liabilities to which we may be subject. A successful claim for which we are not fully insured could hurt our financial results and materially harm our financial condition. Further, due to rising insurance costs and changes in the insurance markets, we cannot provide assurance that insurance coverage will continue to be available on terms similar to those presently available to us or at all. Any such losses not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We may not always be able to recover our costs to provide electricity to our retail customers. We are currently obligated to supply electric energy to our retail customers in our service territory. From time to time and because of unforeseen circumstances, the demand for electric energy required to meet these obligations could exceed our available electric generating capability. When our retail customer demand exceeds our generating capacity for units operating under Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator, Inc. economic dispatch, recovery of our cost to purchase electric energy in the Midwest ISO market to meet that demand is subject to a stipulation and settlement agreement, which expires in April 2010. The agreement includes a benchmark which compares hourly purchased power costs to daily natural gas prices. Purchased power costs above the benchmark must meet certain criteria in order for us to fully recover them from our retail customers, such as consideration of the capacity of units available but not selected by the Midwest ISO economic dispatch. As a result, we may not always have the ability to pass all of the purchased power costs on to our customers, and even if we are able to do so, there may be a significant delay between the time the costs are incurred and the time the costs are recovered. Since these situations most often occur during periods of peak demand, there is a material risk that the market price for electric energy at the time we purchase it could be very high under these circumstances, and we may not be allowed to recover all of such costs through our Fuel Adjustment Charges. Even if a supply shortage was brief, we could suffer substantial losses that could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Please see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Regulatory Matters - Fuel Adjustment Charge and Authorized Annual Jurisdictional Net Operating Income” for additional details regarding the benchmark and the process to recover fuel costs. Our transmission and distribution system is subject to reliability and capacity risks. The on-going reliable performance of our transmission and distribution system is subject to risks due to, among other things, weather damage, intentional or unintentional damage, plant outages, labor disputes, operator error, or inoperability of key infrastructure internal or external to us. The failure of our transmission and distribution system to fully deliver the energy demanded by customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows, and if such failures occur too often or for an extended period of time, could result in action by the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. In addition, the advent and quick adaptation of new products and services that require increased levels of electrical energy cannot be predicted and could result in insufficient transmission and distribution system capacity. As with all utilities, potential concern over transmission capacity could result in the Midwest ISO, or the FERC requiring us to upgrade or expand our transmission system through additional capital expenditures. Substantially all of our electricity is generated by coal and more than half of our supply of coal comes from one supplier. More than 99% of the total kWhs produced by us was generated from coal in each of 2008, 2007, and 2006. Our existing coal contracts provide for nearly all of our projected requirements in 2009 and approximately 66% for the three year period ending December 31, 2011. We have long-term coal contracts with five suppliers. Pricing provisions in some of our long-term coal contracts allow for price changes under certain circumstances. Contracts for a significant portion of our coal supply expire over the next three years. At the end of 2009, two long-term coal contracts will expire that represent about 45% of our annual purchases. Although the price of these contracts have increased due to pricing provisions in the contract, the prices of coal under these contracts are significantly below the current market. New contracts to replace this supply may increase our weighted average cost of fuel. Contract negotiations began in 2008 and will continue through 2009. Substantially all of the coal is currently mined in the state of Indiana. More than half of our contracted coal is from one supplier. We have entered into three long-term contracts with this non-union supplier for the provision of coal from three separate mines. While we have not experienced any significant problems with performance under our contracts with this supplier we cannot assure similar performance in the future. It is presently believed that all coal burned by us will be mined by non-affiliated suppliers. Any significant disruption in the delivery of coal from this supplier, or any failure on the part of this supplier to fulfill its contractual obligation to deliver coal, could have a material adverse effect on our business. In the event of such disruption, there can be no assurance that we would be able to purchase power or find another supplier of coal on favorable terms, which may also limit our ability to recover fuel costs through the FAC. Catastrophic events could adversely affect our facilities, systems and operations. Catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, terrorist acts, acts of war, pandemic events, or natural disasters such as floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, ice storms or other similar occurrences could adversely affect our generation facilities, transmission and distribution systems, operations, earnings and cash flow. Our Petersburg Plant, which is our largest source of generating capacity, is located in the Wabash Valley seismic zone, adjacent to the New Madrid seismic zone, areas of significant seismic activity in the central United States. Our business is sensitive to weather and seasonal variations. Our business is affected by variations in general weather conditions and unusually severe weather. As a result of these factors, the operating revenues and associated operating expenses are not generated evenly by month during the year. We forecast electric sales on the basis of normal weather, which represents a long-term historical average. Significant variations from normal weather (such as warmer winters and cooler summers) could have a material impact on our revenue, operating income and net income and cash flows. Storms that interrupt services to our customers have required us in the past, and may require us in the future, to incur significant costs to restore services. The electricity business is highly regulated and any changes in regulations, or adverse regulatory action, could reduce revenues or increase costs. As an electric utility, we are subject to extensive regulation at both the federal and state level. At the federal level, we are regulated by the FERC and, at the state level, we are regulated by the IURC. The regulatory power of the IURC over IPL is both comprehensive and typical of the traditional form of regulation generally imposed by state public utility commissions. We face the risk of unexpected or adverse regulatory action. Regulatory discretion is reasonably broad in Indiana. We are subject to regulation by the IURC as to our services and facilities, the valuation of property, the construction, purchase, or lease of electric generating facilities, the classification of accounts, rates of depreciation, the increase or decrease in retail rates and charges, the issuance of securities (other than evidences of indebtedness payable less than twelve months after the date of issue), the acquisition and sale of some public utility properties or securities and certain other matters. Our tariff rates for electric service to retail customers consist of basic rates and charges and various adjustment mechanisms which are set and approved by the IURC after public hearings. Pursuant to statute, the IURC is to conduct a periodic review of the basic rates and charges of all Indiana utilities at least once every four years, but the IURC has the authority to review the rates of any Indiana utility at any time. Proceedings to review our basic rates and charges, which were last adjusted in 1996, involve IPL, the Indiana Office of Utility Consumer Counselor and other interested consumer groups and customers. In addition, we must seek the approval from the IURC through such public proceedings of our tracking mechanism factors to reflect changes in our fuel costs to generate electricity or purchased power costs and for the timely recovery of costs incurred during construction and operation of Clean Coal Technology facilities constructed to comply with environmental laws and regulations. There can be no assurance that we will be granted approval of our tracking mechanism factors that we request from the IURC. The failure of the IURC to approve any requested relief, or any other adverse rate determination by the IURC, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. In recent years, federal and state regulation of electric utilities has changed dramatically, including the Energy Policy Act of 2005. Much of the legislation directs the FERC, the Department of Energy, and other agencies to develop rules for the implementation of the EPAct. The EPAct contains provisions specifically related to the electric utility industry including, but not limited to, the following: climate change issues, mandatory reliability standards, amendments to the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act, repeal of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, enactment of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005, clean power initiatives, transmission expansion and energy efficiency proposals. The adoption of rules by either the FERC or the IURC implementing the EPAct could affect our business. We are currently unable to predict the impact, if any, to our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Independent of the IURC’s ability to review basic rates and charges, Indiana law requires electric utilities under the jurisdiction of the IURC to meet operating expense and income test requirements as a condition for approval of requested changes in FAC. Additionally, customer refunds may result if a utility’s rolling twelve month operating income, determined at quarterly measurement dates, exceeds a utility’s authorized annual jurisdictional net operating income and there are not sufficient applicable cumulative net operating income deficiencies against which the excess rolling twelve month jurisdictional net operating income can be offset. In our two most recently approved FAC filings (FAC 81 and 82), the IURC found that our rolling annual jurisdictional retail electric net operating income was lower than the authorized annual jurisdictional net operating income. However, in our FAC 76 through 80 filings, the IURC found that our rolling annual jurisdictional retail electric net operating income was greater than the authorized annual jurisdictional net operating income. Because we have a cumulative net operating income deficiency, we have not been required to make customer refunds in our FAC proceedings. However, in an effort to allay concerns raised by the IURC regarding our level of earnings, in our IURC approved FAC 79 and 80 we provided voluntary credits to our retail customers totaling $30 million and $2 million, respectively. We recorded a $30 million deferred fuel regulatory liability in March 2008 and a $2 million deferred fuel regulatory liability in June 2008, with corresponding and respective reductions against revenues for these voluntary credits. Approximately $30.3 million have been applied in the form of offsets against fuel charges that customers would have otherwise been billed during June 1, 2008 through December 31, 2008 and approximately $1.7 million remains to be applied as of December 31, 2008. Our participation in the Midwest ISO network involves risks. We are a member of the Midwest ISO, a FERC approved regional transmission organization. The Midwest ISO serves the electrical transmission needs of much of the Midwest and maintains functional operational control over our electric transmission facilities as well as that of the other Midwest utility members of the Midwest ISO. We retain control over our distribution facilities. As a result of membership in the Midwest ISO and their operational control, our continued ability to import power, when necessary, and export power to the wholesale market has been, and may continue to be, impacted. We offer our generation and bid our load into this market on a day-ahead basis and settle differences in real time. Given the nature of the Midwest ISO’s policies regarding use of transmission facilities, and its administration of the energy and ancillary services markets, it is difficult to predict near term operational impacts. We cannot assure the Midwest ISO’s reliable operation of the regional transmission system, nor the impact of its operation of the energy and ancillary services markets. At the federal level, there are business risks for us associated with multiple proceedings pending before the FERC related to our membership and participation in the Midwest ISO. These proceedings involve such issues as transmission rates, construction of new transmission facilities, and evolving standards for resource adequacy including sanctions for non-compliance and forecasting error. To the extent that we rely, at least in part, on the performance of the Midwest ISO to maintain the reliability of our transmission system, it puts us at some risk for the performance of the Midwest ISO. In addition, actions taken by the Midwest ISO to secure the reliable operation of the entire transmission system operated by the Midwest ISO could result in voltage reductions, rolling blackouts, or sustained system wide blackouts on IPL’s transmission and distribution system, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows. (See also “Item 1. Business - Industry Matters - Midwest ISO Operations” and “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Industry Changes.”) Our ownership by the AES Corporation subjects us to potential risks that are beyond our control. All of IPL’s common stock is owned by IPALCO, all of whose common stock is owned by AES. The interests of AES may differ from the interests of IPALCO, IPL or any of their creditors or other stakeholders. Further, due to our relationship with AES, any adverse developments and announcements concerning them may affect our ability to access the capital markets and to otherwise conduct business. In particular, downgrades in AES’s credit ratings could potentially result in IPL or IPALCO’s credit ratings being downgraded. IPL’s common stock is pledged to secure certain indebtedness of IPALCO, and IPALCO’s common stock is pledged to secure certain indebtedness of AES. IPALCO is a holding company and is dependent on IPL for dividends to meet its debt service obligations. IPALCO is a holding company with no material assets other than the common stock of its subsidiaries, and accordingly all cash is generated by the operating activities of our subsidiaries, principally IPL. None of IPALCO’s subsidiaries, including IPL, is obligated to make any payments with respect to its $375 million of 8.625% (original coupon 7.625%) Senior Secured Notes due November 14, 2011 and $400 million of 7.25% Senior Secured Notes due April 1, 2016; however, the common stock of IPL is pledged to secure payment of these notes. Accordingly, IPALCO’s ability to make payments on 2011 IPALCO Notes and 2016 IPALCO Notes is dependent not only on the ability of IPL to generate cash in the future, but also on the ability of IPL to distribute cash to IPALCO. IPL’s mortgage and deed of trust and its amended articles of incorporation contain restrictions on IPL’s ability to issue certain securities or pay cash dividends to IPALCO. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources” for a discussion of these restrictions. See Note 10, “Indebtedness” to the audited Consolidated Financial Statements of IPALCO in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” included in this Form 10-K for information regarding indebtedness. We rely on access to the capital markets. General economic conditions and disruptions in the financial markets could adversely affect our ability to raise capital on favorable terms or at all, and cause increases in our interest expense. From time to time we rely on access to capital markets as a source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by operating cash flows. Recently, conditions in the financial markets have deteriorated, which has reduced the availability of capital and credit. If these conditions continue or worsen, our ability to raise capital on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected, and we may be unable to access adequate funding to refinance our debt as it becomes due or finance capital expenditures. The extent of any impact will depend on several factors, including our operating cash flows, the duration of tight credit conditions and volatile equity markets, our credit ratings, credit capacity, the cost of financing, and other general economic and business conditions. It may also depend on the performance of credit counterparties and financial institutions with which we do business. In addition, we have outstanding variable rate indebtedness in the form of auction rate securities and variable rate demand notes. While the securities have long term maturities, they are auctioned and remarketed weekly. The volatility and disruption in the credit markets have negatively affected our ability to auction and remarket the securities and have resulted in increased interest expense. We have received authority from the IURC to refinance this variable rate indebtedness. Given the volatility in the capital markets, we will continue to evaluate our alternatives with regard to refinancing this debt. See Note 10, “Indebtedness” to the audited Consolidated Financial Statements of IPALCO in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” included in this Form 10-K for information regarding indebtedness. See also “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk - Credit Market Risk” for information related to credit market risks. The level of our indebtedness, and the security provided for this indebtedness, could adversely affect our financial flexibility. As of December 31, 2008, we had on a consolidated basis $1.7 billion of long-term indebtedness and total common shareholder’s deficit of $9.9 million. IPL had $837.7 million of First Mortgage Bonds outstanding as of December 31, 2008, which are secured by the pledge of substantially all of the assets of IPL under the terms of IPL’s mortgage and deed of trust. IPL also had $60.0 million of unsecured indebtedness. This level of indebtedness and related security could have important consequences, including the following: increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund other corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds, as needed. We expect to incur additional debt in the future, subject to the terms of our debt agreements and regulatory approvals for any IPL debt. To the extent we become more leveraged, the risks described above would increase. Further, our actual cash requirements in the future may be greater than expected. Accordingly, our cash flow from operations may not be sufficient to repay at maturity all of the outstanding debt as it becomes due and, in that event, we may not be able to borrow money, sell assets or otherwise raise funds on acceptable terms or at all to refinance our debt as it becomes due. For a further discussion of outstanding debt, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Current and future conditions in the economy may adversely affect our customers, suppliers and counterparties, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows have been and will continue to be affected by general economic conditions. As a result of slowing global economic growth, the credit market crisis, declining consumer and business confidence, fluctuating commodity prices, and other challenges currently affecting the general economy, our customers may experience deterioration of their businesses, cash flow shortages, and difficulty obtaining financing. As a result, existing customers may reduce their electricity consumption and may not be able to fulfill their payment obligations to us in the normal, timely fashion. In addition, some existing commercial and industrial customers may discontinue their operations. In 2008, one of our five largest customers announced it will be closing permanently in July 2009. Revenues from this customer were $10.5 million or less than 1% of total revenues in 2008. In 2008, we also experienced a slight decrease in the number of residential and small commercial and industrial customers. Projects which may result in potential new customers will likely be delayed until economic conditions improve. At times, we may utilize forward purchase contracts to manage the risk associated with power purchases, and could be exposed to counter-party credit risk in these contracts. Further, some of our suppliers, customers and other counterparties, and others with whom we transact business may be experiencing financial difficulties, which may impact their ability to fulfill their obligations to us. For example, our counterparties on the interest rate swap, forward purchase contracts, and financial institutions involved in our credit facilities may become unable to fulfill their contractual obligations. We may not be able to enter into replacement agreements on terms as favorable as our existing agreements. If the general economic slowdown continues for significant periods or deteriorates significantly, our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In particular, the projected economic and population growth in Indianapolis is important to the realization of our forecasts for annual energy sales growth. A continued downturn in the Indianapolis economy could adversely affect our expected performance. Parties providing construction materials or services may fail to perform their obligations, which could harm our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Our construction program calls for extensive expenditures for capital improvements and additions, including the installation of environmental upgrades, improvements to transmission and distribution facilities as well as other initiatives. As a result, we have engaged, and will continue to engage, numerous contractors and have entered into a number of agreements to acquire the necessary materials and/or obtain the required construction related services. This exposes us to the risk that these contractors and other counterparties could fail to perform. In addition, some contracts provide for us to assume the risk of price escalation and availability of certain metals and key components. This could force us to enter into alternative arrangements at then-current market prices that may exceed our contractual prices and cause construction delays. Although our agreements are designed to mitigate the consequences of a potential default by the counterparty, our actual exposure may be greater than these mitigation provisions. This would adversely affect our financial results, and we might incur losses or delays in completing construction. We could incur significant capital expenditures to comply with environmental laws and regulations. We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things, the generation, storage, handling, use, disposal and transportation of hazardous materials; the emission and discharge of hazardous and other materials into the environment; and the health and safety of our employees. These laws and regulations often require a lengthy and complex process of obtaining and renewing permits and other governmental authorizations from federal, state and local agencies. A violation of these laws, regulations or permits can result in substantial fines, other sanctions, permit revocation and/or facility shutdowns. We cannot provide assurance that we have been or will be at all times in full compliance with such laws, regulations and permits; however, we do not believe any currently open investigations will result in fines material to our results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows. Under certain environmental laws, we could be held responsible for costs relating to contamination at our past or present facilities and at third party waste disposal sites. We could also be held liable for human exposure to such hazardous substances or for other environmental damage. We cannot assure that our costs of complying with current and future environmental and health and safety laws, and our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances will not adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Please see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Environmental Matters” for a more comprehensive discussion of environmental matters impacting IPL and IPALCO. Regulators, politicians, non-governmental organizations and other private parties have expressed concern about greenhouse gas emissions and are taking actions which, in addition to the potential physical risks associated with climate change, could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. At the federal and various regional and state levels, policies are under development to regulate GHG emissions, thereby effectively putting a cost on such emissions in order to create financial incentives to reduce them. In 2008, IPL emitted 17.7 million tons of CO2 from our power plants. Federal, state or regional regulation of GHG emissions could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial performance. The actual impact on the Company’s financial performance will depend on a number of factors, including among others, the GHG reductions required under any such legislation or regulations, the price and availability of offsets, the extent to which market based compliance options are available, the extent to which we would be entitled to receive GHG emissions allowances without having to purchase them in an auction or on the open market and the impact of such legislation or regulation on our ability to recover costs incurred. In January 2005, based on European Community “Directive 2003/87/EC on Greenhouse Gas Emission Allowance Trading,” the European Union Greenhouse Gas Emission Trading Scheme (“EU ETS”) commenced operation as the largest multi-country GHG emission trading scheme in the world. On February 16, 2005, the Kyoto Protocol became effective. The Kyoto Protocol requires the 40 developed countries that have ratified it to substantially reduce their GHG emissions, including CO2. The United States has not ratified the Kyoto Protocol. In the United States, there currently are no federal mandatory GHG emission reduction programs (including CO2) affecting our electric power generation facilities. However, there are several proposed GHG legislative initiatives in the United States Congress that would, if enacted, constrain GHG emissions, including CO2, and/or make them more costly. We continue to monitor developments with respect to the regulation of CO2 emissions under the Clean Air Act. In April 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court issued its decision in Massachusetts v. Environmental Protection Agency, a case involving the regulation of CO2 emissions from motor vehicles under the CAA. The Court ruled that CO2 is a pollutant which potentially could be subject to regulation under the CAA and that the EPA must give a reasoned explanation for why it does not regulate CO2 in response to a petition for rulemaking. Current federal policy regarding CO2 emissions favors voluntary reductions, increased operating efficiency and continued research and technology development. However, the Court’s decision and stimulus from regulators, politicians, non-governmental organizations, private parties and other factors could lead to a determination by the EPA to regulate CO2 emission from mobile and stationary sources, including electric power generation facilities. We will continue to monitor developments with respect to the regulation of CO2 emissions under the CAA. In light of these developments, some regulatory initiatives regarding CO2 may be implemented in the future, although at this time we cannot predict if, how, or to what extent such initiatives would affect us. In July 2008, the EPA issued an advanced notice of proposed rulemaking soliciting comments on whether and how greenhouse gas emissions should be regulated under the CAA. The advanced notice of proposed rulemaking marks the EPA’s first rulemaking step to respond to the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision in Massachusetts v. EPA, which requires the EPA to give a reasoned explanation for its decision to not regulate CO2. However, currently it is not clear what impact this proposed rulemaking will have on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Legislation to reduce the emission of GHG, including CO2, has been considered by Congress in each of the past few years but has not yet been enacted. The lack of binding legislation at the federal level has prompted some states and regions to develop their own climate change legislation. This includes, but is not limited to, the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative in the northeast, the Western Climate Initiative, the Midwestern Regional Greenhouse Gas Reduction Accord, and California Greenhouse Gas Initiative, which are regional efforts to develop “cap and trade” programs for CO2 emissions. The State of Indiana has signed the Midwestern Regional Greenhouse Gas Reduction Accord as an observer, not a participant. In January 2009, states participating in the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative process implemented rules that establish a “cap and trade” program for power plant emissions of CO2 in the northeastern United States and are currently in the process of implementing state rules to effectuate the program. In addition to government regulators, other groups such as politicians, environmentalists and other private parties have expressed increasing concern about GHG emissions. For example, certain financial institutions have expressed concern about providing financing for facilities which would emit GHGs, which can affect our ability to obtain capital, or if we can obtain capital, to receive it on commercially viable terms. In addition, rating agencies may decide to downgrade our credit ratings based on our emissions or increased compliance costs which could make financing unattractive. Furthermore, according to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, physical risks from climate change could include, but are not limited to, increased runoff and earlier spring peak discharge in many glacier and snow fed rivers, warming of lakes and rivers, an increase in sea level, changes and variability in precipitation and in the intensity and frequency of extreme weather events. Physical impacts may have the potential to significantly affect the Company’s business and operations. For example, extreme weather events could result in increased downtime and operation and maintenance costs at our electric power generation facilities and our support facilities. Variations in weather conditions, primarily temperature and humidity, attributable to climate change also would be expected to affect the energy needs of customers. A decrease in energy consumption could decrease our revenues. In addition, while revenues would be expected to increase if the energy consumption of customers increased, such increase could prompt the need for additional investment in generation capacity. Changes in the temperature of lakes and rivers and changes in precipitation that result in drought could adversely affect the operations of our fossil-fuel fired electric power generation facilities. Changes in temperature, precipitation and snow pack conditions also could affect the amount and timing of hydroelectric generation. If any of the foregoing risks materialize, costs may increase or revenues may decrease and there could be a material adverse effect on our electric power generation businesses and on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Regulatory initiatives regarding CO2 may be implemented in the future, although at this time we cannot predict if, how, or to what extent such initiatives would affect us. Generally, we believe costs to comply with any regulations implemented to reduce greenhouse gas emissions would be deemed as part of the costs of providing electricity to our customers and as such, we would seek recovery for such costs in our rates. However, no assurance can be given as to whether the IURC will approve such requests. . Please see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Environmental Matters” for a more comprehensive discussion of environmental matters impacting IPL and IPALCO. Commodity price changes may affect the operating costs and competitive position of our business. Our business is sensitive to changes in the price of coal, the primary fuel we use to produce electricity, and to a lesser extent, to the changes in the prices of natural gas, purchased power and emissions allowances. In addition, changes in the prices of steel, copper and other raw materials can have a significant impact on our costs. Any changes in coal prices could affect the prices we charge, our operating costs and our competitive position with respect to our products and services. While we have approximately 66% of our current coal requirements for the three year period ending December 31, 2011 under long-term contracts, the balance is yet to be purchased and will be purchased under a combination of long-term contracts, short-term contracts and on the spot market. Prices can be highly volatile in both short-term market and on the sport market. Pricing provisions in some of our long-term coal contracts allow for price changes under certain circumstances. Contracts for a significant portion of our coal supply expire over the next three years. At the end of 2009, two long-term coal contracts will expire that represent about 45% of our annual purchases. Although the price of these contracts have increased due to pricing provisions in the contract, the prices of coal under these contracts are significantly below the current market. New contracts to replace this supply may increase our weighted average cost of fuel. Contract negotiations began in 2008 and will continue through 2009. We are also dependent on purchased power, in part, to meet our seasonal planning reserve margins. Our exposure to fluctuations in the price of coal is limited because pursuant to Indiana law, we may apply to the IURC for a change in our FAC every three months to recover our estimated fuel costs, which may be above or below the levels included in our basic rates. In addition, we may recover the energy portion of our purchased power costs in these quarterly FAC proceedings. We must present evidence in each proceeding that we have made every reasonable effort to acquire fuel and generate or purchase power or both so as to provide electricity to our retail customers at the lowest fuel cost reasonably possible. We are subject to employee workforce factors that could affect our businesses, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. We are subject to employee workforce factors, including, among other things, loss or retirement of key personnel (approximately 45% of our employees are over the age of 50), availability of qualified personnel, and collective bargaining agreements with employees who are members of a union. Approximately 65% of our employees are represented by the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers. Work stoppages could affect our businesses, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Economic conditions relating to our pension plans’ asset performance and interest rates could materially impact our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Pension costs are based upon a number of actuarial assumptions, including an expected long-term rate of return on pension plan assets, the expected life span of pension plan beneficiaries and the discount rate used to determine the present value of future pension obligations. Any of these assumptions could prove to be wrong, resulting in a shortfall of pension plan assets compared to pension obligations under the pension plan. We are responsible for funding any shortfall of pension plan assets compared to pension obligations under the pension plan, and a significant increase in our pension liabilities could materially impact our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. The Pension Protection Act of 2006, which contains comprehensive pension funding reform legislation, was enacted into law during the third quarter of 2006. The pension funding provisions are effective January 1, 2008. The Pension Protection Act of 2006 requires plans that are less than 100% funded to fully fund any funding shortfall in amortized level installments over seven years, beginning in the year of the shortfall. In addition, we must also contribute the normal (service) cost earned by active participants during the plan year. Then, each year thereafter, if the plan’s underfunding increases to more than the present value of the remaining annual installments, the excess is separately amortized over a new seven year period. Please see Note 12, “Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits” to the audited Consolidated Financial Statements of IPALCO in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” included in this Form 10-K for further discussion. From time to time, we are subject to material litigation and regulatory proceedings. We may be subject to material litigation, regulatory proceedings, administrative proceedings, settlements, investigations and claims from time to time. There can be no assurance that the outcome of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Please see Note 2, “Regulatory Matters” and Note 13, “Commitments and Contingencies” to the audited Consolidated Financial Statements of IPALCO in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” included in this Form 10-K for a summary of significant regulatory matters and legal proceedings involving us. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None ITEM 1C. DEFINED TERMS DEFINED TERMS The following is a list of frequently used abbreviations or acronyms that are found in this Form 10-K: 1995B Bonds IPL’s $40 Million City of Petersburg, Indiana, Pollution Control Refunding Revenue Bonds Adjustable Rate Tender Securities Series 1995B, Indianapolis Power & Light Company Project 2008 IPALCO Notes $375 million of 8.375% (original coupon 7.375%) Senior Secured Notes due November 14, 2008 2011 IPALCO Notes $375 million of 8.625% (original coupon 7.625%) Senior Secured Notes due November 14, 2011 2016 IPALCO Notes $400 million of 7.25% Senior Secured Notes due April 1, 2016 AES The AES Corporation ASM Ancillary Services Market BART Best Available Retrofit Technology CAA Clean Air Act CAIR Clean Air Interstate Rule CAMR Clean Air Mercury Rule CCT Clean Coal Technology CO2 Carbon Dioxide Defined Benefits Pension Plan Employees’ Retirement Plan of Indianapolis Power & Light Company DSM Demand-Side Management ECCRA Environmental Compliance Cost Recovery Adjustment EPA U.S. Environmental Protection Agency EPAct Energy Policy Act of 2005 Exchange Act Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended FAC Fuel Adjustment Charges FERC Federal Energy Regulatory Commission GHG Greenhouse Gas IBEW International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers IDEM Indiana Department of Environmental Management IPALCO IPALCO Enterprises, Inc. IPL Indianapolis Power & Light Company IPL Funding IPL Funding Corporation IURC Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission J.P. Morgan J.P. Morgan Securities, Inc. kWh Kilowatt hours MW Megawatt Midwest ISO Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator, Inc. NOx Nitrogen Oxides NSR New Source Review Pension Plans Employees’ Retirement Plan of Indianapolis Power & Light Company and Supplemental Retirement Plan of Indianapolis Power & Light Company REMC Rural Electric Membership Cooperative RFC ReliabilityFirst Corporation RSG Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee RSP AES Retirement Savings Plan SO2 Sulfur Dioxide S&P Standard & Poors Supplemental Retirement Plan Supplemental Retirement Plan of Indianapolis Power & Light Company Thrift Plan Employees’ Thrift Plan of Indianapolis Power & Light Company VEBA Trust Voluntary Employee Beneficiary Association Trust 