Risk Factors” in Item 1A of Part I of this Report. Our increased purchases of foreign sourced products subjects us to foreign currency risks that could reduce the margin advantage we would otherwise be able to realize on the sales of those products to our customers in United States. See “RISK FACTORS — Our financial performance can be adversely affected by currency fluctuations associated with our operations in Canada and our increased reliance on foreign product suppliers.” The following table identifies the product manufacturers that accounted for 5% or more of our total product purchases, and the respective percentages of our total product purchases accounted for by each of them, in each of 2014, 2013 and 2012: 2014 2013 2012 Airexcel, Inc. 23 % 25 % 22 % Zhejiang Xingyu Industry & Trade Co., Ltd. * * 6 % * Less than 5%. Airexcel, Inc. has manufactured and supplied us with Coleman® brand RV air conditioners for more than the past 15 years under a long-term supply agreement with us. Zhejiang Xingyu Industry & Trade Co., Ltd. (“Zhejiang”) manufactures and since 2010 has been supplying us with portable generators, which we market and sell under our own “Powerhouse” brand name. No other product manufacturers accounted for as much as 5% of our product purchases in 2014, 2013 or 2012. Product Warranties and Product Liability Insurance. We generally do not independently warrant the products that we distribute and sell. Instead, product manufacturers generally warrant the products they sell to us and allow us to return defective products for credit or replacement, including those that have been returned to us by our customers. However, we do sell portable generators under a product supply arrangement with the manufacturer which provides for us to share the costs of providing warranty services for these products. The warranty period is 24 months following the sale of a generator to the retail customer. At December 31, 2014 and 2013, our reserves for potential warranty claims with respect to those products totaled $762,000 and $737,000, respectively. However, there is no assurance that warranty claims in the future will not exceed these amounts. See “MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS — Critical Accounting Policies — Warranty Costs” in Item 7 of this report below. We also maintain insurance to protect us against product liability claims relating to all of the products we distribute and sell. Additionally, we often are able to obtain indemnification agreements from our product suppliers to protect us against product liability claims that may arise out of the use of the products they manufacture and supply to us for resale. 4 Table of Contents Competition We face significant competition. There are a number of national and regional distributors of RV parts, supplies and accessories that compete with us. There also are mass merchandisers, web retailers, catalog houses and national and regional retail chains specializing in the sale of RV parts, supplies and accessories that purchase such products directly from manufacturers. The mass merchandisers, web retailers and national and regional chains compete directly with the RV supply stores and service centers that purchase products from us. This competition affects both the volume of our sales and the prices we are able to charge our customers for those products. Additionally, there is no assurance that changes in supply relationships or new alliances within the RV industry will not occur that would further increase competition. We compete on the basis of the quality, speed and reliability of our service, the breadth of our product lines and on price. We believe that we are highly competitive in each of these areas. As discussed earlier in this Report, we sell portable generators and certain other products, not only in the RV market, but also in other markets, such as the outdoor power equipment market, in which we have not previously sold products. We also intend to seek additional products that we can source from overseas suppliers for resale into other markets in the United States and Canada. We expect to encounter intensive competition from manufacturers and distributors of competing products in those other markets. Many of those companies are larger and have greater marketing and financial resources than we do and are better known than us in these markets. Therefore, there is no assurance that we will be successful in competing against those companies. Seasonality Sales of RV parts, supplies and accessories are seasonal. Generally, we have significantly higher sales during the six-month period from March through August than we do during the remainder of the year when winter weather conditions result in reductions in purchases and in the usage of RVs and, therefore, also in the demand for the products we sell. Because a substantial portion of our expenses are fixed, operating income declines and we sometimes incur losses and must rely more heavily on borrowings to fund our operations in the winter months when sales are lower. Employees At December 31, 2014, we had approximately 280 full-time employees, which include 60 employees in Canada. During the peak summer months, we also employ part-time workers at our regional distribution and warehouse centers. None of our employees is represented by a labor union and we believe that relations with our employees are good. Our Website Our internet website address is www.coastdistribution.com. Our Annual Report to Stockholders and all of our SEC filings are available on our website, without charge. Copies of these filings also are available as soon as reasonably practicable after we have filed or furnished these documents to the SEC at its website, which is www.sec.gov. The information contained on our website is not a part of, or incorporated by reference into, this Report on Form 10-K. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are not historical facts or that discuss our expectations, beliefs or views regarding our future operations or financial performance or our future financial condition, or trends in our business or markets, constitute “forward-looking statements.” Forward-looking statements are not statements of fact. Instead they discuss our expectations, beliefs and views about our future financial performance or future financial condition, or regarding financial or market trends that may affect our future operating results. The forward looking statements in this Report are necessarily based on current information available to us, and our business is subject to a number of risks, market conditions and uncertainties that could cause our actual financial performance or financial condition in future periods to differ, possibly significantly, from our current expectations and beliefs and the estimates that are set forth in those forward looking statements. Set forth below is a discussion of those risks and uncertainties. However, readers of this Report are cautioned that it is not possible to predict all of the events or circumstances that might occur which may adversely affect our financial performance or operating results in the future and, therefore, there may be other risks to which our business is subject that are not addressed below. 5 Table of Contents Our business and financial performance are affected by economic conditions that affect consumers. Our sales are affected directly by the level of purchases and the usage by consumers of RVs which, in turn, are dependent on the ability and willingness of consumers to spend money to make purchases of and to use their RVs. As a result, our sales are affected primarily by (i) the discretionary income that consumers have available to spend, (ii) their confidence about economic conditions which determines their willingness to spend their discretionary income, (iii) the availability of and the interest rates payable on the borrowings, including credit card debt, on which consumers generally rely to finance their purchases of and the costs of using RVs, and (iv) the availability and prices of gasoline, which affect the ability and cost of using their RVs. As a result, our sales and earnings in the past have been, and our future sales and earnings can be, adversely affected by the following conditions: • Economic downturns and recessions and high rates of unemployment, which result in declines in discretionary income available to consumers and a loss of confidence among consumers about economic conditions and their own economic well-being and security, which cause them to reduce their purchases and usage of RVs; • A tightening in the availability and increases in the costs of borrowing and consumer credit on which consumers rely to supplement their own funds when purchasing new and used RVs and paying to maintain and purchase supplies and accessories for their RVs; and • Increases in the prices and shortages in the supply of gasoline, which increase the costs and sometimes even the ability and, therefore, the willingness of consumers to purchase and use RVs. The recent economic recession and credit crisis could have longer term adverse consequences for our business and future financial performance. The recent economic recession and credit crisis led to closures and bankruptcies of many RV dealers, as well as a number of well-known RV manufacturers, which has resulted in reductions in the number of RV dealers and supply stores and in the overall size of the RV market. Also, owners of RVs have been increasing their purchases of RV parts, supplies and accessories from lower-cost sellers, such as mass merchandisers and web-based retailers, resulting in reductions in sales by independent dealers, supply stores and service centers that comprise our Aftermarket Customers, causing them to reduce their purchases of the products we sell. We also do not know and cannot predict whether or the extent to which consumers will increase their discretionary spending after economic conditions improve and, therefore, whether or not sales and usage of RVs will recover to their pre-recession levels. If they do not, our market share, sales revenue and product pricing and, therefore, our future financial performance could be adversely affected. Volatility of gasoline prices could affect our sales and future financial performance. Increases in the costs of and shortages in supplies of gasoline can lead consumers to reduce their usage of, and may discourage some consumers from purchasing, RVs which, in turn, would result in decreases in their purchases of the products we sell. In particular, during the last few years there has been increased volatility in the prices of gasoline due to concerns about the supplies available to or within the United States, due to (i) the growth in demand and competition for oil and gasoline from emerging and high growth economies, such as China and India, (ii) conflicts and political unrest in the middle east and elsewhere that could adversely affect the supply of oil to the United States, and (iii) natural and human-made disasters, such as the gulf oil spill. It is also difficult to predict whether uncertainties regarding and increases in gasoline prices will have short or longer term effects on the purchases and usage by consumers of RVs. In addition, these conditions and uncertainties may increase cyclical swings and make it more difficult to predict our future operating results. Our business is seasonal and our financial performance can be adversely affected by unusual weather conditions. Our business is seasonal, because consumers generally increase their purchases and usage of RVs and, therefore, increase their purchases of the products we sell, primarily in the spring and summer months, which coincide with our second and third fiscal quarters; whereas, such purchases and usage decline in the late fall and in the winter months, which coincide with the fourth and first quarters of our fiscal year. As a result, as a general rule our sales are higher and our financial performance is better in our second and third fiscal quarters than in our fourth and first fiscal quarters during which we often incur losses. 6 Table of Contents However, the occurrence of unusually severe or extended winter weather conditions can adversely affect our operating results in our second and third fiscal quarters, and can lead to more severe swings in our sales and financial performance, because such conditions can have the effect of reducing the usage of RV for periods extending beyond the ordinary winter months or to regions that ordinarily encounter milder winter weather conditions. Additionally, extended periods of unusually severe weather conditions sometimes also occur during the winter months, which can cause year-over-year declines in our sales in the first or fourth quarters of the year. We rely heavily on bank borrowings to fund our business, which makes us more vulnerable to adverse changes in economic conditions and creates liquidity risks for us. We rely heavily on bank borrowings, under a revolving credit line, to fund our working capital requirements and capital expenditures. Our bank borrowings create additional risks for our business. Among other things, we may find it more difficult to obtain additional financing to fund expansion or take advantage of other business opportunities, and we use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on our debt. Our existing debt also makes us more vulnerable to general economic downturns and competitive pressures, which could cause us to fail to meet financial covenants in our bank loan agreement or result in a reduction in the amount of the borrowings that will be available to us under our credit line. Either of those events would reduce our liquidity and, therefore, require us to reduce the size and scope of our business, which could hurt our financial condition and reduce our sales and, therefore, adversely affect our operating results. Our ability to manage our inventory in a volatile market could adversely affect our profitability. Our operating results also depend upon our ability to successfully manage our inventory and to anticipate and respond to changes in purchasing trends and customer demands in a timely manner. The use, and therefore the purchases, by consumers of the products we sell can be volatile and uncertain because they can be affected by a number of factors, including general economic and market conditions, gasoline prices, weather conditions, competition and consumer preferences, none of which are within our control. We usually must order inventory in advance of each year’s selling season. Moreover, the lead times for many of our purchases (particularly of foreign sourced products) may make it difficult for us to respond rapidly to new or changing product trends, increases or decreases in customer demand or changes in prices. If we misjudge the demand for our products or our customers’ purchasing habits (i) we may have insufficient quantities of products to satisfy customer demand, resulting in a decline in our revenues, or (ii) we may accumulate and have to write down excess inventory, which would increase our costs of sales. Also, the level of product inventory we maintain will affect our need for borrowings and, as a result, we may have to curtail our purchases of inventories, which could adversely affected our sales, in order keep our borrowings at an acceptable level. Our financial performance is subject to risks arising out of our proprietary products strategy. In order to increase our sales and reduce our costs of sales and, thereby increase our profitability, we have introduced into the RV market an increasing number of products that have been designed by or for us and which are manufactured and sold to us, generally on an exclusive basis, by a number of different manufacturers. More recently, we have begun sourcing and purchasing, from overseas suppliers, and marketing and selling a number of new products, such as portable generators, into new markets such as the outdoor power equipment market. We have only limited experience in marketing and selling such products, and there is no assurance that these products will gain acceptance among customers in those markets. We also encounter considerable competition from companies that manufacture or sell competing products in those same markets. Many of those companies are larger, more established and better known and have greater financial and marketing resources than we have. Also, we have greater responsibilities for quality control and in marketing and providing warranty protection and service for these products, as compared to the products we source from traditional suppliers for resale in the RV market. There is no assurance that we will be successful in marketing and selling our proprietary products, and the costs we incur in doing so may reduce our earnings or possibly even cause us to incur losses and we could encounter liabilities for possible warranty claims or patent infringement claims as a result of our sales of such products. Moreover, we may experience unexpected engineering or design flaws in connection with new proprietary products that we may introduce into the market, which could lead to a recall of the products, or substantial increases in warranty claims, in which event we could incur substantial expenses that could adversely affect our results of operations. 7 Table of Contents Risks of our reliance on sole sources of supply for certain of our products. We sometimes choose to carry only a single manufacturer’s products for certain of the brand-name product lines that we sell. In addition, we obtain each of our proprietary products from a single source manufacturer. Dependence on a single manufacturer for any product or line of related products, however, presents some risks, including the risk that we will be unable to readily obtain alternative product supply sources in the event that a single source supplier (i) encounters quality or other manufacturing problems, or (ii) decides to enter into an exclusive supply arrangement or alliance with one of our competitors, or to vertically integrate its operations to include not only manufacturing, but also distribution, of its products or (iii) for any other reason decides to terminate the supply arrangement it has with us. If any of our single source suppliers were to encounter any manufacturing problems or disruptions or terminate our supply relationship, our sales and earnings could decline, possibly to a significant extent. Our financial results can be and sometimes have been adversely affected by changes in supply relationships in our markets. As is the customary practice in our markets, in most instances we do not have long term supply contracts with our product suppliers. As a result, product suppliers are free to change the terms on which they sell us products or to discontinue supplying us with products altogether, because they may choose to distribute their products directly to aftermarket dealers or retailers or because they might choose to establish exclusive supply relationships with other distributors. Additionally, manufacturers of new RVs may choose to incorporate optional equipment on their RVs at the time of manufacture that, historically, was sold to their dealers by distributors such as the Company. Any of these occurrences could result in increased competition in our markets or could reduce the number of products we are able to offer our customers, which could cause our sales to decline and could result in lower margins and in reduced earnings. Our financial performance and cash flows can be adversely affected by currency fluctuations associated with our operations in Canada and our increased reliance on foreign product suppliers. Currency Risks Associated with our Canadian Operations. Our wholly-owned Canadian subsidiary accounted for more than 22% of our net sales in 2014. That subsidiary purchases a substantial portion of the products it sells from manufacturers in the United States and pays for those products in U.S. dollars, but sells those products to its customers in Canadian dollars. In the event the Canadian dollar weakens in relation to the U.S. dollar, the costs of those products to our Canadian subsidiary would increase, thereby increasing its costs of sales, unless it is able to pass the higher costs on to its customers by raising its prices without adversely affecting its sales volume. If our Canadian subsidiary is unable to pass the higher costs on to its customers, our gross profits, operating income and cash flows would decline during any periods when there are declines in the value of the Canadian dollar in relation to the U.S. dollar. Currency and other Risks Associated with our Purchases of Foreign Sourced Products. As we increase our purchases of products from foreign suppliers, we may become increasingly vulnerable to the effects of political instability and adverse economic conditions in the countries in which those suppliers are located. Additionally, purchases of products in foreign countries create currency risks for us. In those instances when we pay for foreign sourced products in U.S. dollars, a weakening U.S. dollar may lead foreign suppliers to increase the prices they charge us for their products in order to mitigate their currency exchange risks. In those countries where we buy products in the local currency, to the extent it becomes necessary for us to convert U.S. dollars into the local currency in order to pay for those products, a weakening U.S. dollar would make the local currency more expensive for us, thereby increasing the costs to us of purchasing those products. Moreover, a devaluation of local currencies may lead foreign suppliers to increase the prices they charge us for their products. Any of these events or circumstances could reduce the margin advantage that we could otherwise realize on our sales of foreign sourced products in North America, unless we are able to pass along the higher costs to our customers without adversely affecting our sales volume. If we are unable to pass such higher costs on to our customers, our gross profits and operating income and our cash flows would decline. We may attempt to limit our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations by entering into currency exchange contracts when we conclude that it is appropriate to do so. There is no assurance that we will be successful in hedging such foreign currency exchange risk and any currency exchange gains or losses (net of hedges) may materially and adversely impact our cash flows and earnings. 8 Table of Contents We are subject to risks related to taxation in multiple jurisdictions. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and other foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgments based on interpretations of existing tax laws or regulations are required in determining the provision we need to make for income taxes. Our effective income tax rate could be adversely affected by various factors, including, but not limited to, changes in the mix of earnings in tax jurisdictions with different statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in existing tax laws or tax rates, changes in the level of non-deductible expenses, or the result of examinations by various tax authorities. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, if the U.S. Internal Revenue Service or other taxing authority disagrees with the positions taken by us on our tax returns, we could incur additional tax liability, including interest and penalties. If material, payment of such additional tax, interest or penalties upon final adjudication of any disputes could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial position. We are subject to product liability risks and warranty claims. Product Liability Risks. Although we do not manufacture any of the products we sell, it is not uncommon for us to be named as an additional defendant in product liability lawsuits brought against manufacturers of those products. To protect ourselves from liability, we have been able in many instances to obtain indemnification agreements from these manufacturers or to be named as additional insureds under their product liability insurance policies. Nevertheless, we also maintain our own product liability insurance. We also conduct quality control testing, at our own product testing laboratories in the United States, of many of the proprietary products that we sell. However, although we have never incurred any material product liabilities in excess of the insurance coverage that we have obtained under policies of insurance maintained either by product manufacturers or by us, there is no assurance that we will not incur, in the future, product liabilities in amounts that materially exceed the insurance coverage and indemnification protections that we have and which, as a result, could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Moreover, the risks of incurring liabilities for product defects has increased as a result of our proprietary products strategy, because many of the suppliers of those products are located overseas, making us a more attractive target for product liability claims. Warranty Claims Risks. In certain instances, we have assumed the responsibility for dealing with and resolving product warranty claims from customers. As a result, we have had to establish reserves for potential product warranty claims which has increased our costs of sales. In addition, the amounts of those reserves are determined based not only on historical warranty claims experience, but also on estimates of the number and costs to us of future warranty claims. If the actual number or the costs of warranty claims were to exceed our estimates, it could become necessary for us to increase those reserves, which would result in an increase in our costs of sales that could adversely affect our profit margins and our results of operations. See “MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS — Critical Accounting Policies — Warranty Costs” below in this Annual Report. Risks of patent infringement claims. We design, or have independent product design firms or manufacturers, design and engineer a number of the proprietary products that we introduce into the marketplace. From time to time manufacturers of competing products have threatened and on occasion have brought suits against us claiming that some of our proprietary or foreign sourced products infringe their patents. We retain a patent law firm to review all new products that we plan to introduce into the market for potential patent infringements and that firm works in concert with our product design engineers and independent design firms or manufacturers to determine if the product as designed infringes, or if changes need to be made to a product to prevent infringements, on patents or other proprietary rights held by competitors. To date we have not incurred any material liability as a result of any patent infringement claims that have been threatened or asserted against us. However, there can be no assurance that we will not incur liability for patent infringement in the future, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, in response to the filing of a patent infringement suit, it may become necessary for us to halt sales or to redesign newly introduced products to avoid patent infringement liability, which could reduce our sales and increase our costs and, thereby, adversely affect our results of operations. 9 Table of Contents We face substantial competition that could lead to declines in net sales or reductions in our gross profits. We face significant competition in each of our markets which can adversely affect our sales, profit margins and operating results. In our RV products market we face competition not only from other wholesale distributors, but also from mass merchandisers, web retailers, catalog houses and national and regional retail chains that sell RV parts, supplies and accessories. Moreover, due to their size and financial resources, some of those mass merchandisers and national or regional chains are able to purchase such products directly from manufacturers at prices comparable to the prices at which we are able to purchase such products from those same or competing manufacturers. As a result, some of those mass merchandisers and national chains are able to pass some of the resulting cost savings to their customers by reducing the prices at which they sell such products. The mass merchandisers, web retailers, and national and regional chains also compete directly with the RV dealers, supply stores and service centers that purchase products from us. Therefore, the pricing decisions of and the breadth of the products sold by, mass merchandisers and national chains can affect both the volume of our sales and the prices we are able to charge our customers for the same or competing products. Additionally, price competition, particularly from mass merchandisers and national chains, has been increasing as they seek to increase their market shares. Moreover, we could encounter additional price competition as a result of a recent merger of two wholesale distributors of RV accessories, parts and supplies with which we compete nationally. As a result, in order to remain competitive it could become necessary for us to reduce our prices, including the prices at which we sell our proprietary and Coast branded products to our Aftermarket Customers, in which event we could lose the price and margin advantages that we have gained from the sale of those products which could result in reductions in our gross profits and gross margin. Moreover, we face stiff competition in the sale of portable power generators and other products in the outdoor power equipment market from manufacturers and suppliers of competing products, many of which are larger, have greater marketing and capital resources and are better-known in that market. Such competition could require us to reduce our prices for or could prevent us from increasing our sales of those products and could cause us to incur losses as a result of our efforts to sell products in markets other than the RV market. Risk that our deferred tax asset may not be fully realized. We have recorded, on our balance sheet, a “deferred tax asset” which consists of tax credit and tax loss carryforwards and tax deductions (“tax benefits”) that are available to reduce income taxes that we would otherwise have to pay on the taxable income that we generate in future periods. Under applicable federal and state income tax laws and regulations, such tax benefits will expire at various dates in the future if not used to offset income taxes by such dates. Accordingly, our ability to fully use this deferred tax asset to reduce our taxes in the future depends on the amount of taxable income that we are able to generate prior to such expiration dates. If we determine that it is no longer more likely, than not, that we will be able to fully utilize the deferred tax asset, we would be required to establish (or increase any existing) valuation allowance to reduce the recorded amount of the deferred tax asset on our balance sheet to the amount of the tax benefits we believe we will be able to use prior to their expiration dates. Such an allowance is established or increased by a non-cash operating charge that would increase the provision for income taxes or reduce any income tax benefit in the fiscal period in which that valuation allowance is established or increased. At December 31, 2014, we had a valuation allowance in the amount of nearly $1.4 million which reduced the carrying value of our net deferred tax asset to $3.2 million at December 31, 2014. There is no assurance, however, that we will be able to fully utilize this deferred tax asset as that will depend on our future operating results. Moreover, if we are not able to generate taxable income in the future that will enable us to fully utilize this deferred tax asset, it could become necessary for us to increase the valuation allowance in future periods, which would have the effect of increasing our income tax provision or reducing any income tax benefit that we would otherwise record in our statements of operations, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations. See “MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS — Critical Accounting Policies” below in this Annual Report. Loss of key management. Our future performance is substantially dependent upon the continued services of certain members of our senior management. The loss of the services of any key members of senior management could have a material adverse effect upon us. In addition, our continued growth depends on our ability to attract and retain skilled executives. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain our existing key personnel or attract additional qualified executives in the future. 10 Table of Contents Risk of fluctuations in our share price. The market price of our common stock may be subject to significant fluctuations in response to our operating results, our ability to meet market expectations and other factors. Fluctuations in the market price of our common stock may also result from trading characteristics that prevail in the market for our common stock, including low trading volumes, trading volume fluctuations and other similar factors. These market fluctuations, as well as downturns in the economy or in consumer confidence or increases in unemployment may adversely affect the market prices and the liquidity of our common stock. As a result, we cannot provide any assurances that the market prices of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future or that there will be sufficient liquidity in the market for our shares that would enable shareholders to sell shares at the times or in the quantities they desire. We do not plan to pay dividends at least for the foreseeable future. In 2008 our Board of Directors adopted a policy to retain cash for our business and, as a result, we have not paid any cash dividends since 2008 and do not expect to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Additionally, subject to certain limited exceptions, our bank line of credit agreement requires us to obtain the bank’s consent prior to declaring or paying cash dividends and there is no assurance we would be able to get that consent if we were to decide to pay any cash dividends in the future. Reliance on our information technology systems exposes us to potential risks. Reliance on our information technology systems exposes us to potential risks such as interruptions due to natural disasters, such as earthquakes or fires, unplanned data center and system outages, cyber attacks, hacking or fraud perpetrated by malicious individuals and other causes. Additionally, in the ordinary course of our business, we collect, use and hold data concerning our customers. Threats to data security, including unauthorized access and cyber-attacks, rapidly emerge and change, exposing us to additional costs for protection or remediation and competing time constraints to secure our data in accordance with customer expectations and statutory requirements. However, it is difficult or impossible to defend against every risk being posed by changing technologies, as well as against criminals who are intent on committing cyber-crime. A breach of our security that results in unauthorized access to our or our customers’ data could expose us to a disruption or challenges relating to our daily operations, as well as to data loss, litigation, damages, fines and penalties, significant increases in compliance costs and reputational damage, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Failure of our internal control over financial reporting could harm our business and financial results. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”). Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting is not intended to provide absolute assurance that we would prevent or detect a misstatement of our financial statements or fraud. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud. The identification of a material weakness could indicate a lack of controls adequate to general accurate financial statements that, in turn, could cause a loss of investor confidence and decline in the market price of our common stock. Other risks and uncertainties. Our business and financial performance could be materially and adversely affected in the future by other risks or developments that either are not known to us at the present time or are currently immaterial to our business and results of operations. Such risks could include, but are not limited to, the commencement of litigation against us and unexpected adverse changes in local, national or global economic or market conditions. Due to these and other possible uncertainties and risks, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements contained in this Report, which speak only as of the date of this Annual Report. We also disclaim any obligation to update forward-looking information contained in this Report, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may otherwise be required by applicable law or the rules of the NYSE MKT. 11 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 