ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investors should consider carefully the following risk factors that could cause our business, operating results and financial condition to be materially adversely affected. New risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our business or financial performance. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other detailed information concerning IPALCO and IPL set forth in the Notes to audited Consolidated Financial Statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” and in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” herein. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Our electric generating facilities are subject to operational risks that could result in unscheduled plant outages, unanticipated operation and/or maintenance expenses, increased fuel or purchased power costs and other significant liabilities for which we may or may not have adequate insurance coverage. We operate coal, oil and natural gas generating facilities, which involve certain risks that can adversely affect energy costs, output and efficiency levels. These risks include: increased prices for fuel and fuel transportation as existing contracts expire or as such contracts are adjusted through price re-opener provisions or automatic adjustments; unit or facility shutdowns due to a breakdown or failure of equipment or processes; disruptions in the availability or delivery of fuel and lack of adequate inventories; labor disputes; reliability of our suppliers; inability to comply with regulatory or permit requirements; disruptions in the delivery of electricity; the availability of qualified personnel; operator error; and catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, terrorist acts, acts of war, pandemic events, or natural disasters such as floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, ice storms, or other similar occurrences affecting our generating facilities. The above risks could result in unscheduled plant outages, unanticipated operation and/or maintenance expenses, increased capital expenditures, and/or increased fuel and purchased power costs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. If unexpected plant outages occur frequently and/or for extended periods of time, this could result in adverse regulatory action. Additionally, as a result of the above risks and other potential hazards associated with the power generation industries, we may from time to time become exposed to significant liabilities for which we may not have adequate insurance coverage. Power generation involves hazardous activities, including acquiring, transporting and unloading fuel, operating large pieces of rotating equipment and delivering electricity to transmission and distribution systems. In addition to natural risks, such as earthquakes, floods, lightning, tornadoes, ice storms and wind, hazards, such as fire, explosion, collapse and machinery failure are inherent risks in our operations which may occur as a result of inadequate internal processes, technological flaws, human error or certain external events. The control and management of these risks depend upon adequate development and training of personnel and on the existence of operational procedures, preventative maintenance plans and specific programs supported by quality control systems which reduce, but do not eliminate the possibility of the occurrence and impact of these risks. The hazardous activities described above can also cause significant personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property, plant and equipment, contamination of, or damage to, the environment and suspension of operations. The occurrence of any one of these events may result in us being named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting claims for substantial damages, environmental cleanup costs, personal injury and fines and/or penalties. We maintain an amount of insurance protection that we believe is adequate, but there can be no assurance that our insurance will be sufficient or effective under all circumstances and against all hazards or liabilities to which we may be subject. A successful claim for which we are not fully insured could hurt our financial results and materially harm our financial condition. In addition, transmission and distribution assets are not covered by insurance and are considered to be outside the scope of property insurance. Further, due to rising insurance costs and changes in the insurance markets, we cannot provide assurance that insurance coverage will continue to be available on terms similar to those presently available to us or at all. Any such losses not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We may not always be able to recover our costs to provide electricity to our retail customers. We are currently obligated to supply electric energy to retail customers in our service territory. From time to time and because of unforeseen circumstances, the demand for electric energy required to meet these obligations could exceed our available electric generating capacity. When our retail customer demand exceeds our generating capacity for units operating under MISO economic dispatch, recovery of our cost to purchase electric energy in the MISO market to meet that demand is subject to a stipulation and settlement agreement. The agreement includes a benchmark which compares hourly purchased power costs to daily natural gas prices. Purchased power costs above the benchmark must meet certain criteria in order for us to fully recover them from our retail customers, such as consideration of the capacity of units available but not selected by the MISO economic dispatch. As a result, we may not always have the ability to pass all of the purchased power costs on to our customers, and even if we are able to do so, there may be a significant delay between the time the costs are incurred and the time the costs are recovered. Since these situations most often occur during periods of peak demand, the market price for electric energy at the time we purchase it could be very high under these circumstances, and we may not be allowed to recover all of such costs through our fuel adjustment charges. Even if a supply shortage was brief, we could suffer substantial losses that could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Please see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Regulatory Matters - Fuel Adjustment Charge and Authorized Annual Jurisdictional Net Operating Income” for additional details regarding the benchmark and the process to recover fuel costs. Our transmission and distribution system is subject to reliability and capacity risks. The ongoing reliable performance of our transmission and distribution system is subject to risks due to, among other things, weather damage, intentional or unintentional damage, fires and/or explosions, plant outages, labor disputes, operator error, or inoperability of key infrastructure internal or external to us. The failure of our transmission and distribution system to fully deliver the energy demanded by customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows, and if such failures occur frequently and/or for extended periods of time, could result in adverse regulatory action. In addition, the advent and quick adaptation of new products and services that require increased levels of electrical energy cannot be predicted and could result in insufficient transmission and distribution system capacity. As with all utilities, potential concern over transmission capacity could result in the MISO, the NERC or the FERC requiring us to upgrade or expand our transmission system through additional capital expenditures. Substantially all of our electricity is generated by coal and approximately 45% of our supply of coal comes from one supplier. Approximately 99% of the total kWh we produced was generated from coal in each of 2011, 2010 and 2009. Our existing coal contracts provide for all of our current projected requirements in 2012 and approximately 85% for the three-year period ending December 31, 2014. We have long-term coal contracts with five suppliers. Pricing provisions in some of our long-term coal contracts allow for price changes under certain circumstances. Substantially all of the coal is currently mined in the State of Indiana. All coal currently burned by us and under purchase contracts is mined by third parties. Our goal is to carry a 25-50 day system supply of coal to offset unforeseen occurrences such as equipment breakdowns and transportation or mine delays. Approximately 45% of our existing coal under contract comes from one supplier. Any significant disruption in the delivery of coal from this supplier, or any failure on the part of this supplier to fulfill its contractual obligation to deliver coal, could have a material adverse effect on our business. In the event of such disruption, there can be no assurance that we would be able to purchase power or find another supplier of coal on similarly favorable terms, which could also limit our ability to recover fuel costs through the fuel adjustment charge proceedings. Catastrophic events could adversely affect our facilities, systems and operations. Catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, terrorist acts, acts of war, pandemic events, or natural disasters such as floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, ice storms or other similar occurrences could adversely affect our generation facilities, transmission and distribution systems, operations, earnings and cash flow. Our Petersburg Plant, which is our largest source of generating capacity, is located in the Wabash Valley seismic zone, adjacent to the New Madrid seismic zone, which are areas of significant seismic activity in the central U.S. Our business is sensitive to weather and seasonal variations. Our business is affected by variations in general weather conditions and unusually severe weather. As a result of these factors, the operating revenues and associated operating expenses are not generated evenly by month during the year. We forecast electric sales on the basis of normal weather, which represents a long-term historical average. Significant variations from normal weather (such as warmer winters and cooler summers) could have a material impact on our revenue, operating income and net income and cash flows. Storms that interrupt services to our customers have required us in the past, and may require us in the future, to incur significant costs to restore services. The electricity business is highly regulated and any changes in regulations, or adverse regulatory action, could reduce revenues and/or increase costs. As an electric utility, we are subject to extensive regulation at both the federal and state level. At the federal level, we are regulated by the FERC and the NERC and, at the state level, we are regulated by the IURC. The regulatory power of the IURC over IPL is both comprehensive and typical of the traditional form of regulation generally imposed by state public utility commissions. We face the risk of unexpected or adverse regulatory action. Regulatory discretion is reasonably broad in Indiana. We are subject to regulation by the IURC as to our services and facilities, the valuation of property, the construction, purchase, or lease of electric generating facilities, the classification of accounts, rates of depreciation, the increase or decrease in retail rates and charges, the issuance of securities (other than evidences of indebtedness payable less than twelve months after the date of issue), the acquisition and sale of some public utility properties or securities and certain other matters. Our tariff rates for electric service to retail customers consist of basic rates and charges and various adjustment mechanisms which are set and approved by the IURC after public hearings. Pursuant to statute, the IURC is to conduct a periodic review of the basic rates and charges of all Indiana utilities at least once every four years, but the IURC has the authority to review the rates of any Indiana utility at any time. Proceedings to review our basic rates and charges, which were last adjusted in 1996, involve IPL, the IURC, the Indiana Office of Utility Consumer Counselor and other interested stakeholders. In addition, we must seek approval from the IURC through such public proceedings of our tracking mechanism factors to reflect changes in our fuel costs to generate electricity or purchased power costs and for the timely recovery of costs incurred during construction and operation of Clean Coal Technology (“CCT”) facilities constructed to comply with environmental laws and regulations, recovery of costs associated with providing mandatory demand side management programs, and for certain other costs. There can be no assurance that we will be granted approval of tracking mechanism factors that we request from the IURC. For example, the IURC denied IPL authority to recover retail electric sales margins lost as a result of offering mandatory demand side management programs to retail customers. The failure of the IURC to approve any requested relief, or any other adverse rate determination by the IURC could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. In recent years, federal and state regulation of electric utilities has changed dramatically, and the pace of regulatory change is likely to pick up in coming years. As a result of the EPAct and subsequent legislation affecting the electric utility industry, we have been required to comply with new rules and regulations in areas including mandatory reliability standards, cyber security, transmission expansion and energy efficiency. These rules and regulations are, for the most part, still in their infancy. Regulatory agencies at the state and federal level are in the process of implementation. While we have complied with these rules and regulations to date without significant impact on our business, we are currently unable to predict the long-term impact, if any, to our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Independent of the IURC’s ability to review basic rates and charges, Indiana law requires electric utilities under the jurisdiction of the IURC to meet operating expense and income test requirements as a condition for approval of requested changes in the FAC. Additionally, customer refunds may result if a utility’s rolling twelve month operating income, determined at quarterly measurement dates, exceeds a utility’s authorized annual jurisdictional net operating income and there are not sufficient applicable cumulative net operating income deficiencies against which the excess rolling twelve month jurisdictional net operating income can be offset. Any adverse regulatory action in our tree trimming practices could significantly increase our vegetation management costs. In February 2009, an IPL customer filed a formal complaint claiming IPL’s tree trimming practices were unreasonable and expressed concerns with language contained in IPL’s tariff that addressed IPL’s tree trimming and tree removal rights. Subsequently, the IURC initiated a generic investigation into electric utility tree trimming practices and tariffs in Indiana. In November 2010, the IURC issued an order in the investigation, which imposed additional requirements on the conduct of tree trimming. The order included requirements on utilities to provide advance customer notice and obtain customer consent or additional easements if existing easements and rights of way are insufficient to permit pruning in accordance with the required industry standards or in the event that a tree would need to have more than 25% of its canopy removed. The order also directed that a rulemaking would be initiated to further address vegetation management practices. In December 2010, notices of appeal and petitions for reconsideration, clarification and/or rehearing were filed by multiple parties, including IPL. On July 7, 2011, the IURC issued an additional tree trimming order which did not provide the relief we were seeking, but clarified utility customer notice requirements and the relationship of the order to property rights and tariff requirements. It also clarified that in cases of emergency or public safety, utilities may, without customer consent, remove more than 25% of a tree or trim beyond existing easement or right of way boundaries to remedy the situation. The IURC is currently in the process of promulgating formal rules to implement the order. We and other interested parties are participating in this rulemaking process. It is not possible to predict the outcome of the rulemaking process, but this could adversely impact our distribution reliability and significantly increase our vegetation management costs and the costs of defending our vegetation management program in litigation, which could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. Our participation in the MISO involves risks. We are a member of the MISO, a FERC approved regional transmission organization. The MISO serves the electrical transmission needs of much of the Midwest and maintains functional operational control over our electric transmission facilities as well as that of the other Midwest utility members of the MISO. We retain control over our distribution facilities. As a result of membership in the MISO and their operational control, our continued ability to import power, when necessary, and export power to the wholesale market has been, and may continue to be, impacted. We offer our generation and bid our load into this market on a day-ahead basis and settle differences in real time. Given the nature of the MISO’s policies regarding use of transmission facilities, and its administration of the energy and ancillary services markets, it is difficult to predict near term operational impacts. We cannot assure the MISO’s reliable operation of the regional transmission system, nor the impact of its operation of the energy and ancillary services markets. At the federal level, there are business risks for us associated with multiple proceedings pending before the FERC related to our membership and participation in the MISO. These proceedings involve such issues as transmission rates, construction of new transmission facilities, the allocation of costs of transmission expansion due to the renewable mandates of other states, and the evolving tariff requirements for resource adequacy. To the extent that we rely, at least in part, on the performance of the MISO to maintain the reliability of our transmission system, it puts us at some risk for the performance of the MISO. In addition, actions taken by the MISO to secure the reliable operation of the entire transmission system operated by the MISO could result in voltage reductions, rolling blackouts, or sustained system wide blackouts on IPL’s transmission and distribution system, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows. (See also “Item 1. Business - Industry Matters - MISO Operations” and “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Regulatory Matters.”) Our ownership by AES subjects us to potential risks that are beyond our control. All of IPL’s common stock is owned by IPALCO, all of whose common stock is owned by AES. The interests of AES may differ from the interests of IPALCO, IPL or any of their creditors or other stakeholders. Further, due to our relationship with AES, any adverse developments and announcements concerning them may affect our ability to access the capital markets and to otherwise conduct business. In particular, downgrades in AES’s credit ratings could likely result in IPL or IPALCO’s credit ratings being downgraded. IPL’s common stock is pledged to secure certain indebtedness of IPALCO, and IPALCO’s common stock is pledged to secure certain indebtedness of AES. IPALCO is a holding company and is dependent on dividends from IPL to meet its debt service obligations. IPALCO is a holding company with no material assets other than the common stock of its subsidiaries, and accordingly all cash is generated by the operating activities of our subsidiaries, principally IPL. IPL’s mortgage and deed of trust, its amended articles of incorporation and its Credit Agreement contain restrictions on IPL’s ability to issue certain securities or pay cash dividends to IPALCO. For example, there are restrictions on the maintenance of a leverage ratio which could limit the ability of IPL to pay dividends. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources” for a discussion of these restrictions. See Note 10, “Indebtedness” to the audited Consolidated Financial Statements of IPALCO in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” included in this Form 10-K for information regarding indebtedness. We rely on access to the capital markets. General economic conditions and disruptions in the financial markets could adversely affect our ability to raise capital on favorable terms or at all, and cause increases in our interest expense. From time to time we rely on access to capital markets as a source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by operating cash flows. In recent years conditions in the financial markets have deteriorated, including unprecedented volatility, which has reduced the availability of capital and credit. While there have been signs of a partial recovery in late 2010 and 2011, the timing and extent of a full recovery is unknown, and uncertainty still exists in the U.S. and global economies and the credit and equity markets. It is possible that our ability to raise capital on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected, and we may be unable to access adequate funding to refinance our debt as it becomes due or finance capital expenditures. The extent of any impact will depend on several factors, including our operating cash flows, the overall demand in the credit markets, our credit ratings, credit capacity, the cost of financing, and other general economic and business conditions. It may also depend on the performance of credit counterparties and financial institutions with which we do business. See Note 10, “Indebtedness” to the audited Consolidated Financial Statements of IPALCO in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” included in this Form 10-K for information regarding indebtedness. See also “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk - Credit Market Risk” for information related to credit market risks. The level of our indebtedness, and the security provided for this indebtedness, could adversely affect our financial flexibility. As of December 31, 2011, we had on a consolidated basis $1.8 billion of indebtedness and total common shareholder’s deficit of $5.8 million. IPL had $965.3 million of First Mortgage Bonds outstanding as of December 31, 2011, which are secured by the pledge of substantially all of the assets of IPL under the terms of IPL’s mortgage and deed of trust. IPL also had $64 million of unsecured indebtedness. This level of indebtedness and related security could have important consequences, including the following: increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund other corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, our ability to borrow additional funds, as needed. We expect to incur additional debt in the future, subject to the terms of our debt agreements and regulatory approvals for any IPL debt. To the extent we become more leveraged, the risks described above would increase. Further, actual cash requirements in the future may be greater than expected. Accordingly, our cash flow from operations may not be sufficient to repay at maturity all of the outstanding debt as it becomes due and, in that event, we may not be able to borrow money, sell assets or otherwise raise funds on acceptable terms or at all to refinance our debt as it becomes due. For a further discussion of outstanding debt, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Current and future conditions in the economy may adversely affect our customers, suppliers and counterparties, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows have been and will continue to be affected by general economic conditions. As a result of slowing global economic growth, the credit market crisis, declining consumer and business confidence, fluctuating commodity prices, and other challenges currently affecting the general economy, some of our customers have experienced and may continue to experience deterioration of their businesses, cash flow shortages, and difficulty obtaining financing. As a result, existing customers may reduce their electricity consumption and may not be able to fulfill their payment obligations to us in the normal, timely fashion. In addition, some existing commercial and industrial customers may discontinue their operations. Projects which may result in potential new customers will likely be delayed until economic conditions improve. In particular, the projected economic growth and total employment in Indianapolis are important to the realization of our forecasts for annual energy sales. At times, we may utilize forward contracts to manage the risk associated with power purchases and wholesale power sales, and could be exposed to counterparty credit risk in these contracts. Further, some of our suppliers, customers and other counterparties, and others with whom we transact business may be experiencing financial difficulties, which may impact their ability to fulfill their obligations to us. For example, our counterparties on forward purchase contracts and financial institutions involved in our credit facility may become unable to fulfill their contractual obligations. We may not be able to enter into replacement agreements on terms as favorable as our existing agreements. If the general economic slowdown continues for significant periods or deteriorates significantly, our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Wholesale power marketing activities may add volatility to earnings. We engage in wholesale power marketing activities that primarily involve the offering of utility-owned or contracted generation into the MISO day ahead and real time markets. As part of these strategies, we may also execute energy contracts that are integrated with portfolio requirements around power supply and delivery. The earnings from wholesale marketing activities may vary based on fluctuating prices for electricity and the amount of electric generating capacity or purchased power available, beyond that needed to meet firm service requirements. In order to reduce the risk of volatility in earnings from wholesale marketing activities, we may at times enter into forward contracts to hedge such risk. If we do not accurately forecast future commodities prices or if our hedging procedures do not operate as planned we may experience losses. We did not use such hedges in 2011 and used them on a fairly limited basis in 2010 with no material impact to earnings. No such hedges are currently in place. In addition, under the current MISO market rules, the introduction of additional renewable energy into the MISO market could have the effect of reducing the demand for wholesale energy from other sources. The additional generation produced by renewable energy sources could have the impact of reducing market prices for energy and could reduce our opportunity to sell coal fired and gas generation into the MISO market, thereby reducing our wholesale sales. Additionally, decreases in natural gas prices in the U.S. have the impact of reducing market prices for electricity, which can reduce our ability to sell excess generation on the wholesale market, as well as reduce our profit margin on wholesale sales. Parties providing construction materials or services may fail to perform their obligations, which could harm our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Our construction program calls for extensive expenditures for capital improvements and additions, including the installation of environmental upgrades, improvements to generation, transmission and distribution facilities, as well as other initiatives. As a result, we have engaged, and will continue to engage, numerous contractors and have entered into a number of agreements to acquire the necessary materials and/or obtain the required construction related services. This exposes us to the risk that these contractors and other counterparties could fail to perform. In addition, some contracts provide for us to assume the risk of price escalation and availability of certain metals and key components. This could force us to enter into alternative arrangements at then-current market prices that may exceed our contractual prices and cause construction delays. It could also subject us to enforcement action by regulatory authorities to the extent that such a contractor failure resulted in a failure by IPL to comply with requirements or expectations. Although our agreements are designed to mitigate the consequences of a potential default by the counterparty, our actual exposure may be greater than these mitigation provisions. This could adversely affect our financial results, and we might incur losses or delays in completing construction. We could incur significant capital expenditures to comply with environmental laws and regulations and/or material fines for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. We are subject to various federal, state, regional and local environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things, the generation, storage, handling, use, disposal and transportation of hazardous materials; the emission and discharge of hazardous and other materials into the environment; and the health and safety of our employees. These laws and regulations often require a lengthy and complex process of obtaining and renewing permits and other governmental authorizations from federal, state and local agencies. A violation of these laws, regulations or permits can result in substantial fines, other sanctions, permit revocation and/or facility shutdowns. The amount of capital expenditures required to comply with environmental laws or regulations could be impacted by the outcome of the EPA’s NOV described in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Environmental Matters,” in which the EPA alleges that several physical changes to IPL’s generating stations were made in noncompliance with existing environmental laws. This NOV from the EPA may also result in a fine, which could be material. The combination of existing and expected environmental regulations make it likely that we will temporarily or permanently retire several of our existing, primarily coal-fired, smaller and older generating units over the next several years. These units are not equipped with the advanced environmental control technologies needed to comply with existing and expected regulations, and collectively make up less than 15% of our net electricity generation over the last several years. We are continuing to evaluate available options for replacing this generation, which include modifying one or more of the units to use natural gas as the fuel source, building new units, purchasing existing units, joint ownership of generating units, purchasing electricity in the wholesale market, or some combination of these options. There is currently an excess of capacity in the MISO footprint. The net book value of the units being evaluated for retirement and/or refueling was approximately $97.4 million at December 31, 2011. Our decision on which replacement options to pursue will be impacted by our review of the EPA’s final National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from Coal-and Oil-fired Electric Utility Steam Generating Units and Standards of Performance for Fossil-Fuel-Fired Electric Utility, Industrial-Commercial-Institutional, and Small Industrial-Commercial-Institutional Steam Generating Units (the “Utility MACT” rule), which was released in December 2011, as well as the ultimate timetable for implementation of the rule. In addition, we expect to install environmental controls on existing units in order for them to comply with the Utility MACT rule. The related capital expenditures are estimated to be significant. Please see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Capital Requirements - Capital Expenditures” for the estimated impact of HAPS legislation on our capital expenditures program. We would seek recovery of any operating or capital expenditures related to air pollution control technology to reduce regulated air emissions; however, there can be no assurances that we would be successful in that regard. From time to time we are subject to enforcement actions for claims of noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. IPL cannot assure that it will be successful in defending against any claim of noncompliance. Under certain environmental laws, we could be held responsible for costs relating to contamination at our past or present facilities and at third-party waste disposal sites. We could also be held liable for human exposure to such hazardous substances or for other environmental damage. We cannot assure that our costs of complying with current and future environmental and health and safety laws, and our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances will not adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Please see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Environmental Matters” for a more comprehensive discussion of environmental matters impacting us. Regulators, politicians, non-governmental organizations and other private parties have expressed concern about greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions and are taking actions which, in addition to the potential physical risks associated with climate change, could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. One byproduct of burning coal and other fossil fuels is the emission of GHGs, including carbon dioxide (“CO2”). At the federal, state and regional levels, policies are under development or have been developed to regulate GHG emissions, thereby effectively putting a cost on such emissions to create financial incentives to reduce them. In 2011, IPL emitted 16 million tons of CO2 from our power plants. IPL uses CO2 emission estimation methodologies supported by “The Greenhouse Gas Protocol” reporting standard on GHG emissions. Our CO2 emissions are calculated from actual fuel heat inputs and fuel type CO2 emission factors. Any existing or future federal, state or regional legislation or regulation of GHG emissions could have a material adverse impact on our financial performance. The actual impact on our financial performance will depend on a number of factors, including among others, the degree and timing of GHG emissions reductions required under any such legislation or regulations, the price and availability of offsets, the extent to which market-based compliance options are available, the extent to which we would be entitled to receive GHG emissions allowances without having to purchase them in an auction or on the open market and the impact of such legislation or regulation on our ability to recover costs incurred through rate increases or otherwise. As a result of these factors, our cost of compliance could be substantial and could have a material impact on our results of operations. Legislators, including the U.S. Congress, have at times considered the passage of laws to limit the emission of GHGs. It is possible that federal legislation related to GHG emissions will be considered by Congress in the future. The EPA is using the Federal Clean Air Act (“CAA”) to limit CO2 and other GHG emissions, and other measures are being imposed or offered by individual states, municipalities and regional agreements, such as the Midwestern Greenhouse Gas Reduction Accord (described below), with the ultimate goal of reducing GHG emissions. Under EPA regulations finalized in May 2010 (referred to as the "Tailoring Rule"), the EPA began regulating GHG emissions from certain stationary sources in January 2011. The regulations are being implemented pursuant to two CAA programs: the Title V Operating Permit program and the program requiring a permit if undergoing certain new construction or major modifications (referred to as the "Prevention of Significant Deterioration" or "PSD" program). Obligations relating to Title V permits include recordkeeping and monitoring requirements. With respect to PSD permits, new construction or modification projects that result in GHG emissions above certain regulatory thresholds may be required to implement "best available control technology", or "BACT". The EPA has issued guidance on what BACT entails for the control of GHGs and individual states are now required to determine what controls are required for facilities within their jurisdiction on a case-by-case basis. The ultimate impact of the Tailoring Rule on our operations cannot be determined at this time, but the cost of compliance could be material. In addition to the Tailoring Rule, the EPA has announced it will propose in 2012 GHG New Source Performance Standards for new or modified electric generating units, and GHG emission standards for existing electric generating units. The ultimate impact of these regulations on our operations cannot be determined at this time, but the cost of compliance could be material. In the absence of federal legislation or regulation, certain states, regions and local authorities have developed GHG initiatives. In November 2007, the governors of Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota, Ohio, South Dakota and Wisconsin and the Premier of Manitoba signed the Midwestern Greenhouse Gas Reduction Accord to develop and implement steps to reduce GHG emissions. In April 2010, the Midwestern Greenhouse Gas Reduction Accord Advisory Group finalized their recommendations for a model rule to reach emissions reductions targets and targeted sectors for GHG reductions in their jurisdiction. These include a recommended reduction in GHG emissions of 20% below 2005 emissions levels by 2020. These recommendations are from the advisory group only and have not been endorsed by the respective states or provinces. If Indiana were to implement the recommended, or other, GHG targets, the impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations could be material. In addition to government regulators, other groups such as politicians, environmentalists and other private parties have expressed increasing concern about GHG emissions. For example, certain financial institutions have expressed concern about providing financing for facilities that would emit GHGs, which can affect our ability to obtain capital, or if we can obtain capital, to receive it on commercially viable terms. In addition, rating agencies may decide to downgrade our credit ratings based on our GHG emissions or increased compliance costs which could make financing unattractive. In addition, environmental groups and other private plaintiffs are actively seeking to bring private lawsuits against electric utility companies with the goal of obtaining court orders requiring reductions in GHG emissions. One popular legal theory asserted by environmental groups included the common law theory of nuisance. However, in June 2011, the U.S. Supreme Court found that the CAA preempted federal common law nuisance claims. (See American Electric Power v. Connecticut, 131 S. Ct. 2527 (2011)). Despite this ruling, environmental groups will likely seek to pursue other theories and state law claims to impose GHG emission reductions. It is impossible to determine whether any such lawsuit will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Furthermore, according to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, physical risks from climate change could include, but are not limited to, increased runoff and earlier spring peak discharge in many glacier and snow fed rivers, warming of lakes and rivers, an increase in sea level, changes and variability in precipitation and in the intensity and frequency of extreme weather events. Physical impacts may have the potential to significantly affect our business and operations. For example, extreme weather events could result in increased downtime and operation and maintenance costs at our electric power generation facilities and our support facilities. Variations in weather conditions, primarily temperature and humidity, also would be expected to affect the energy needs of customers. A decrease in energy consumption could decrease our revenues. In addition, while revenues would be expected to increase if the energy consumption of customers increased, such increase could prompt the need for additional investment in generation capacity. Changes in the temperature of lakes and rivers and changes in precipitation that result in drought could adversely affect the operations of our fossil-fuel fired electric power generation facilities. If any of the foregoing risks materialize, costs may increase or revenues may decrease and there could be a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition to the rules already in effect, regulatory initiatives regarding GHG emissions may be implemented in the future, although at this time we cannot predict if, how, or to what extent such initiatives would affect us. Generally, we believe costs to comply with any regulations implemented to reduce GHG emissions, including those already promulgated, would be deemed as part of the costs of providing electricity to our customers and as such, we would seek recovery for such costs in our rates. However, no assurance can be given as to whether the IURC will approve such requests. Please see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Environmental Matters” for a more comprehensive discussion of environmental matters impacting us. Commodity price changes may affect the operating costs and competitive position of our business. Our business is sensitive to changes in the price of coal, the primary fuel we use to produce electricity, and to a lesser extent, to the changes in the prices of natural gas, purchased power and emissions allowances. In addition, changes in the prices of steel, copper and other raw materials can have a significant impact on our costs. Any changes in coal prices could affect the prices we charge, our operating costs and our competitive position with respect to our products and services. While we have approximately 85% of our current coal requirements for the three-year period ending December 31, 2014 under long-term contracts, the balance is yet to be purchased and will be purchased under a combination of long-term contracts, short-term contracts and on the spot market. Prices can be highly volatile in both the short-term market and on the spot market. Pricing provisions in some of our long-term coal contracts allow for price changes under certain circumstances. We are also dependent on purchased power, in part, to meet our seasonal planning reserve margins. Our exposure to fluctuations in the price of coal is limited because pursuant to Indiana law, we may apply to the IURC for a change in our FAC every three months to recover our estimated fuel costs, which may be above or below the levels included in our basic rates. In addition, we may generally recover the energy portion of our purchased power costs in these quarterly FAC proceedings subject to a benchmark (as discussed in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Regulatory Matters”). We must present evidence in each proceeding that we have made every reasonable effort to acquire fuel and generate or purchase power or both so as to provide electricity to our retail customers at the lowest fuel cost reasonably possible. We are subject to employee workforce factors that could affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. We are subject to employee workforce factors, including, among other things, loss or retirement of key personnel (over 55% of our employees are over the age of 50 and have an average of 24 years of experience), availability of qualified personnel, and collective bargaining agreements with employees who are members of a union. Approximately 64% of our employees are represented by the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, in two bargaining units: a physical unit and a clerical-technical unit. We may not be able to successfully train new personnel as current workers with significant knowledge and expertise retire. We also may be unable to staff our business with qualified personnel in the event of significant absenteeism related to a pandemic illness. Work stoppages or other workforce issues could affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Economic conditions relating to the asset performance and interest rates of the Employees’ Retirement Plan of IPL and Supplemental Retirement Plan of IPL (together, the “Pension Plans”) could materially impact our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Pension costs are based upon a number of actuarial assumptions, including an expected long-term rate of return on pension plan assets, level of employer contributions, the expected life span of pension plan beneficiaries and the discount rate used to determine the present value of future pension obligations. Any of these assumptions could prove to be wrong, resulting in a shortfall of our Pension Plans’ assets compared to pension obligations under the Pension Plans. We are responsible for funding any shortfall of Pension Plans’ assets compared to pension obligations under the Pension Plans, and a significant increase in our pension liabilities could materially impact our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. We are subject to the Pension Protection Act of 2006, which requires plans that are less than 100% funded to fully fund any funding shortfall in amortized level installments over seven years, beginning in the year of the shortfall. In addition, we must also contribute the normal service cost earned by active participants during the plan year. Each year thereafter, if the plan’s underfunding increases to more than the present value of the remaining annual installments, the excess is separately amortized over a new seven year period. Please see Note 12, “Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits” to the audited Consolidated Financial Statements of IPALCO in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” included in this Form 10-K for further discussion. From time to time, we are subject to material litigation and regulatory proceedings. We may be subject to material litigation, regulatory proceedings, administrative proceedings, settlements, investigations and claims from time to time. There can be no assurance that the outcome of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Please see Note 4, “Regulatory Matters” and Note 13, “Commitments and Contingencies” to the audited Consolidated Financial Statements of IPALCO in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” included in this Form 10-K for a summary of significant regulatory matters and legal proceedings involving us. Information technology security vulnerabilities could have a material adverse impact to our reputation and/or our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We require access to sensitive customer data in the ordinary course of business. If a significant breach of our information technology security system occurred, our reputation could be adversely affected, customer confidence could be diminished, customer information could be used for identity theft purposes, or we could be subject to costs associated with the breach. In the event of any such breach, we could be subject to fines and legal claims, which could affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 1C. DEFINED TERMS DEFINED TERMS The following is a list of frequently used abbreviations or acronyms that are found in this Form 10-K: 1995B Bonds $40 Million City of Petersburg, Indiana, Pollution Control Refunding Revenue Bonds Adjustable Rate Tender Securities Series 1995B, Indianapolis Power & Light Company Project 2011 IPALCO Notes $375 million of 8.625% (original coupon 7.625%) Senior Secured Notes due November 14, 2011 2016 IPALCO Notes $400 million of 7.25% Senior Secured Notes due April 1, 2016 2018 IPALCO Notes $400 million of 5.00% Senior Secured Notes due May 1, 2018 AES The AES Corporation ASC Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification BACT Best Achievable Control Technology CAA Federal Clean Air Act CAIR Clean Air Interstate Rule CCB Coal Combustion Byproducts CCT Clean Coal Technology CO2 Carbon Dioxide Defined Benefit Pension Plan Employees’ Retirement Plan of Indianapolis Power & Light Company DSM Demand Side Management ECCRA Environmental Compliance Cost Recovery Adjustment EPA U.S. Environmental Protection Agency EPAct Energy Policy Act of 2005 Exchange Act Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended FAC Fuel Adjustment Charges FERC Federal Energy Regulatory Commission GHG Greenhouse Gas HAPS Hazardous Air Pollutants IBEW International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers IPALCO IPALCO Enterprises, Inc. IPL Indianapolis Power & Light Company IURC Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission kWh Kilowatt hours MACT Maximum Achievable Control Technology MISO Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator, Inc. MW Megawatts NAAQS National Ambient Air Quality Standards NERC North American Electric Reliability Corporation NOV Notice of Violation NOx Nitrogen Oxides Pension Plans Employees’ Retirement Plan of Indianapolis Power & Light Company and Supplemental Retirement Plan of Indianapolis Power & Light Company RFC ReliabilityFirst Corporation RSG Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee RSP AES Retirement Savings Plan SO2 Sulfur Dioxides Supplemental Retirement Plan Supplemental Retirement Plan of Indianapolis Power & Light Company Thrift Plan Employees’ Thrift Plan of Indianapolis Power & Light Company 