ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the forward-looking statements outlined previously in this Form 10-K and other comments regarding risks and uncertainties, the following risk factors should be carefully considered when evaluating our business. Our business, financial condition or financial results could be materially 7 and adversely affected by any of these risks. Also note that additional risks not currently identified or known to us could also negatively impact our business or financial results. Our business is subject to general economic and business factors that are largely out of our control, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our business is dependent upon a number of factors that may have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include significant increases or rapid fluctuations in fuel prices, excess capacity in the trucking industry, interest rates, fuel taxes, license and registration fees, insurance premiums, self-insurance levels, interference with or termination of our relationships with certain railroads, terrorist attacks or actions, acts of war, adverse weather conditions, increased costs for new revenue equipment or decreases in the value of used equipment, surpluses in the market for used equipment, and difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified drivers and independent contractors. We are also affected by recessionary economic cycles and downturns in customers’ business cycles, particularly in market segments and industries such as retail and manufacturing, where we have a significant concentration of customers. Economic conditions represent a greater potential for loss, and we may be required to increase our reserve for bad-debt losses. In addition, our results of operations may be affected by seasonal factors. Customers tend to reduce shipments after the winter holiday season, and our operating expenses tend to be higher in the winter months primarily due to colder weather, which causes higher fuel consumption from increased idle time and higher maintenance costs. We operate in a competitive and somewhat fragmented industry. Numerous factors could impair our ability to maintain our current profitability and to compete with other carriers and private fleets. Some of these factors include: · We compete with many other transportation carriers of varying sizes and, to a lesser extent, with less-than-truckload carriers and railroads, some of which have more equipment and greater capital resources than we do. · Some of our competitors periodically reduce their freight rates to gain business, especially during times of reduced growth rates in the economy, which may limit our ability to maintain or increase freight rates or maintain our profit margins. · Many customers reduce the number of carriers they use by selecting so-called “core carriers” as approved transportation service providers, and in some instances we may not be selected. · Many customers periodically accept bids from multiple carriers for their shipping needs, and this process may depress freight rates or result in the loss of some business to competitors. · Certain of our customers that operate private fleets to transport their own freight could decide to expand their operations. · The trend toward consolidation in the trucking industry may create other large carriers with greater financial resources and other competitive advantages relating to their size. · Advances in technology require increased investments to remain competitive, and our customers may not be willing to accept higher freight rates to cover the cost of these investments. 8 We derive a significant portion of our revenue from a few major customers, the loss of one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. For the calendar year ended December 31, 2006, our top 10 customers, based on revenue, accounted for approximately 40% of our revenue. Our largest customer is Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., which accounted for approximately 14% of our total revenue in 2006. Our JBT and JBI segments typically do not have long-term contracts with their customers. While our DCS segment business may involve a written contract, those contracts may contain cancellation clauses, and there is no assurance that our current customers will continue to utilize our services or that they will continue at the same levels. A reduction in or termination of our services by one or more of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. We depend on third parties in the operation of our business. Our JBI business segment utilizes railroads in the performance of its transportation services. These services are provided pursuant to contractual relationships with the railroads. While we have agreements with various Class I railroads, the majority of our business travels on the Burlington Northern Santa Fe and the Norfolk Southern Railroad. The inability to utilize one or more of these railroads could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. We also utilize the services of a number of third-party dray carriers to perform a significant number of our origin and destination pickups and deliveries. In addition, a portion of the freight we deliver is imported to the United States through ports of call that are subject to labor union contracts. Difficulty in attracting and retaining drivers could affect our profitability and ability to grow. Periodically, the trucking industry experiences substantial difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified drivers, including ICs. A shortage of qualified company drivers and ICs has proven to be particularly severe during the past few years. In spite of continued increases in driver compensation and recruiting costs, the industry is currently experiencing a shortage of drivers. If we are unable to continue attracting an adequate number of drivers or contract with enough independent contractors, we could be required to significantly increase our driver compensation package or let trucks sit idle, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability. Ongoing insurance and claims expenses could significantly reduce our earnings. Our future insurance and claims expenses might exceed historical levels, which could reduce our earnings. During 2005, we self-insured a portion of our claims exposure resulting from cargo loss, personal injury, property damage and health claims for amounts up to the first $2 million for auto accidents and $1 million for workers’ compensation. During 2006, the self-insured portion of our claims exposure for all claims was reduced to $500,000. If the number or severity of claims for which we are self-insured increases, our operating results could be adversely affected. The self-insured portion of our claims will also be $500,000 during 2007. We purchase insurance coverage for the amounts above which we are self-insured. Insurance carriers have recently raised premiums for most trucking companies. As a result, our insurance and claims expenses could increase when our current coverage expires. If these expenses increase, and we are unable to offset the increase with higher freight rates, our earnings could be materially and adversely affected. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has proposed to disallow the tax benefits associated with certain sale-and-leaseback transactions. As previously disclosed, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has proposed to disallow the tax benefits associated with certain sale-and-leaseback transactions, which we entered into in 1999. Based on events occurring subsequent to December 31, 2004, we established a reserve for a contingent tax liability of $33.6 million at December 31, 2004. The liability for this contingency, which includes estimated interest, is included on our Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2006, as a long-term liability. We have accrued approximately $3.0 million of interest expense during 2006 related to this contingency. We 9 continue to believe our tax positions comply with applicable tax law for which we received advice and opinions from our then external public accountants and attorneys prior to entering into these transactions, and we continue to vigorously defend against the IRS position using all administrative and legal processes available. If the IRS were successful in disallowing 100% of the tax benefit from this transaction, the total ultimate impact on liquidity could be approximately $44 million, excluding interest. Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could result in substantial fines or penalties. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations dealing with the handling of hazardous materials, underground fuel storage tanks, and discharge and retention of storm water. We operate in industrial areas, where truck terminals and other industrial activities are located, and where groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination have occurred. Our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage and hazardous wastes disposal, among others. We also maintain bulk fuel storage and fuel islands at several of our facilities. If we are involved in a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. If we should fail to comply with applicable environmental regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability. We operate in a regulated industry, and increased direct and indirect costs of compliance with, or liability for violation of, existing or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. The DOT and various state agencies exercise broad powers over our business, generally governing matters including authorization to engage in motor carrier service, equipment operation, safety and financial reporting. We are audited periodically by the DOT to ensure that we are in compliance with various safety, hours-of-service, and other rules and regulations. If we were found to be out of compliance, the DOT could restrict or otherwise impact our operations. Effective October 1, 2005, driver HOS regulations were revised. The majority of these rule changes had initially been effective January 4, 2004. These collective changes were the most significant changes to driver HOS in more than 40 years. In general, the new rules require a driver to take at least eight consecutive hours in the sleeper berth during a 10-hour off-duty period. These new rules primarily affect short-haul and multiple-stop freight operations and had a minor negative impact on our overall operations and financial results. Effective with model-year 2007 tractors, the EPA has mandated lower emission standards for newly manufactured heavy-duty tractor engines. We are planning our new equipment purchases to accommodate these new standards but also to allow adequate time for testing of the new engines. In 2006, we began testing the 2007 model-year engines in a group of our tractors. We are unable to predict the impact these new standards will have on our future operations and business results. Rapid changes in fuel costs could impact our periodic financial results. Fuel and fuel taxes currently represent our third-largest general expense category. During the past several years, fuel cost per gallon has varied significantly, with prices at times changing as much as $0.20 to $0.25 per gallon between consecutive months. We have a fuel surcharge revenue program in place with the majority of our customers, which has historically enabled us to recover the majority of higher fuel costs. Most of these programs automatically adjust weekly depending on the cost of fuel. However, there can be timing differences between a change in our fuel cost and the timing of the fuel surcharges billed to our customers. In addition, we incur additional costs when fuel prices rise that cannot be fully recovered due to our engines being idled during cold or warm weather and empty or out-of-route miles that cannot be billed to customers. Rapid increases in fuel costs or shortages of fuel could have a material adverse effect on our operations or future profitability. As of December 31, 2006, we had no derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to fuel price fluctuations. 10 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 