ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the forward-looking statements outlined previously in this Form 10-K and other comments regarding risks and uncertainties, the following risk factors should be carefully considered when evaluating our business. Our business, financial condition or financial results could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. Our business is subject to general economic and business factors, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Recent economic trends and the current tightening of credit in financial markets could adversely affect our ability, and the ability of our suppliers, to obtain financing for operations and capital expenditures. Our business is dependent upon a number of factors that may have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include interference with, or termination of, our relationships with certain railroads, significant increases or rapid fluctuations in fuel prices, fuel taxes, interest rates, insurance premiums, self-insurance levels, excess capacity in the trucking industry, license and registration fees, terrorist attacks or actions, acts of war, adverse weather conditions, increased costs for new revenue equipment or decreases in the value of used equipment, surpluses in the market for used equipment, and difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified drivers and independent contractors. We are also affected by recessionary economic cycles and downturns in customers’ business cycles, particularly in market segments and industries such as retail and manufacturing, where we have a significant concentration of customers. Economic conditions represent a greater potential for loss, and we may be required to increase our reserve for bad debt losses. In addition, our results of operations may be affected by seasonal factors. Customers tend to reduce shipments after the winter holiday season, and 7 Table of Contents our operating expenses tend to be higher in the winter months, primarily due to colder weather, which causes higher fuel consumption from increased idle time and higher maintenance costs. We depend on third parties in the operation of our business. Our JBI business segment utilizes railroads in the performance of its transportation services. The majority of these services are provided pursuant to contractual relationships with the railroads. While we have agreements with various Class I railroads, the majority of our business travels on the Burlington Northern Santa Fe and the Norfolk Southern railways. The inability to utilize one or more of these railroads could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. In addition, a portion of the freight we deliver is imported to the United States through ports of call that are subject to labor union contracts. Work stoppages or other disruptions at any of these ports could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our ICS business segment utilizes third-party carriers. Aside from periodic use of our trailing equipment to fulfill certain loads, we do not own or control the revenue equipment or drivers delivering the loads. The inability to obtain reliable third-party carriers could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and business growth. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from a few major customers, the loss of one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. For the calendar year ended December 31, 2008, our top 10 customers, based on revenue, accounted for approximately 35% of our revenue. Our JBI, JBT and ICS segments typically do not have long-term contracts with their customers. While our DCS segment business may involve a written contract, those contracts may contain cancellation clauses, and there is no assurance that our current customers will continue to utilize our services or that they will continue at the same levels. A reduction in or termination of our services by one or more of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Ongoing insurance and claims expenses could significantly reduce our earnings. Our future insurance and claims expenses might exceed historical levels, which could reduce our earnings. During 2006 and 2007, the self-insured portion of our claims exposure for all claims was $500,000 per occurrence. During 2008, the self-insured portion of our claims was $500,000 per occurrence for personal injury and property damage and $1 million per occurrence for workers’ compensation. If the number or severity of claims for which we are self-insured increases, our operating results could be adversely affected. We have renewed our policies for 2009 with substantially the same terms as our 2008 policies. We purchase insurance coverage for the amounts above which we are self-insured. If these expenses increase, and we are unable to offset the increase with higher freight rates, our earnings could be materially and adversely affected. We operate in a regulated industry, and increased direct and indirect costs of compliance with, or liability for violation of, existing or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. The DOT and various state agencies exercise broad powers over our business, generally governing matters including authorization to engage in motor carrier service, equipment operation, safety and financial reporting. We are audited periodically by the DOT to ensure that we are in compliance with various safety, hours-of-service, and other rules and regulations. If we were found to be out of compliance, the DOT could restrict or otherwise impact our operations. We continue to monitor actions taken by the FMCSA. Significant changes in hours-of-service regulations and other motor carrier safety regulations could negatively impact our operations due to lower driver productivity or increased capital expenditures for monitoring and recordkeeping equipment. 8 Table of Contents Effective with model-year 2007 tractors, the EPA mandated lower emission standards for newly manufactured heavy-duty tractor engines. The acquisition costs of these new engines have increased by approximately 10%. A new set of more stringent emissions standards will become effective for newly manufactured tractor engines in January 2010. While it is too early to assess the impact of the new standards, our fuel costs, operating costs and acquisition costs could be impacted. Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could result in substantial fines or penalties. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations dealing with the handling of hazardous materials, underground fuel storage tanks, and discharge and retention of storm water. We operate in industrial areas, where truck terminals and other industrial activities are located, and where groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination have occurred. Our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage and hazardous waste disposal, among others. We also maintain bulk fuel storage and fuel islands at several of our facilities. If a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances occurs, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. If we should fail to comply with applicable environmental regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability. Rapid changes in fuel costs could impact our periodic financial results. During the past several years, fuel cost per gallon has varied significantly. We have a fuel surcharge revenue program in place with the majority of our customers, which has historically enabled us to recover the majority of higher fuel costs. Most of these programs automatically adjust weekly depending on the cost of fuel. However, there can be timing differences between a change in our fuel cost and the timing of the fuel surcharges billed to our customers. In addition, we incur additional costs when fuel prices rise that cannot be fully recovered due to our engines being idled during cold or warm weather and empty or out-of-route miles that cannot be billed to customers. Rapid increases in fuel costs or shortages of fuel could have a material adverse effect on our operations or future profitability. As of December 31, 2008, we had no derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to fuel-price fluctuations. Difficulty in attracting and retaining drivers, delivery personnel and third-party carriers could affect our profitability and ability to grow. Periodically, we have experienced difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified drivers, including independent contractors. If we are unable to continue attracting an adequate number of employees or contract with enough independent contractors, we could be required to significantly increase our employee compensation package, let revenue equipment sit idle or dispose of the equipment altogether, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability. In addition, our ICS segment growth could be limited by an inability to attract third-party carriers which we rely upon to provide transportation services. We operate in a competitive and somewhat fragmented industry. Numerous factors could impair our ability to maintain our current profitability and to compete with other carriers and private fleets. We compete with many other transportation services providers of varying sizes and, to a lesser extent, with LTL carriers and railroads, some of which have more equipment and greater capital resources than we do. Additionally, some of our competitors periodically reduce their freight rates to gain business, especially during times of reduced growth rates in the economy, which may limit our ability to maintain or increase freight rates or maintain our profit margins. In an effort to reduce the number of carriers it uses, a customer often selects so-called “core carriers” as approved transportation service providers, and in some instances we may not be selected. Many customers periodically accept bids from multiple carriers for their shipping needs, and this process may depress freight rates or result in the loss of some business to competitors. Also, certain customers that 9 Table of Contents operate private fleets to transport their own freight could decide to expand their operations, thereby reducing their need for our services. Extreme or unusual weather conditions can disrupt our operations, impact freight volumes and increase our costs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business results. Certain weather conditions such as ice and snow can disrupt our operations. Increases in costs relating to towing and other maintenance frequently occur during the winter months of our business. Natural disasters such as hurricanes and flooding can also impact freight volumes and increase our costs. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 