ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Capitalized terms used in this Item 1A of Part I and not otherwise defined, have the meaning set forth for such terms in the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” section of this report. Certain statements in this report contain words such as “could”, “expect”, “may”, “anticipate”, “will”, “believe”, “intend”, “estimate”, “plan”, “envision”, “seek” and other similar language and are considered forward-looking statements. These statements are based on our current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the operating environment, economies and markets in which we operate. In addition, other written or oral statements that are considered forward-looking may be made by us or others on our behalf. These statements are subject to important risks, uncertainties and assumptions, that are difficult to predict and actual outcomes may be materially different. The Creditor Protection Proceedings have had and will continue to have a direct impact on our remaining restructuring work and exacerbate these risks and uncertainties. In particular, the risks described below could cause actual events to differ materially from those contemplated in forward-looking statements. Unless otherwise required by applicable securities laws, we do not have any intention or obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in our securities. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. We have organized our risks into the following categories: • Risks Relating to Our Creditor Protection Proceedings • Risks Relating to Our Remaining Restructuring Work Risks Relating to Our Creditor Protection Proceedings We, and many of our direct and indirect subsidiaries, are currently subject to Creditor Protection Proceedings and additional subsidiaries could become subject to similar proceedings. Our remaining restructruing work and financial position are subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with such proceedings. For the duration of the Creditor Protection Proceedings, our remaining restructuring work and financial position are subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with such proceedings. These risks, without limitation and in addition to the risks otherwise noted in this report, are comprised of: Strategic risks, including risks associated with our ability to: • maximize the value of our remaining assets through sales of these assets • consummate pending and future divestitures • satisfy obligations in connection with the transition services agreements related to divestitures of our assets and businesses • develop plans for the conclusion of the Creditor Protection Proceedings in an effective and timely manner • resolve ongoing issues with creditors and other third parties whose interests may differ from ours • resolve allocation of sales proceeds and other inter-estate matters amongst the Debtor estates and other Nortel entities that were vendors in the various business sales • resolve all claims, in particular potentially significant inter-estate claims • obtain creditor, court and any other requisite third party approvals for plans for the conclusion of the Creditor Protection Proceedings • successfully implement plans for the conclusion of the Creditor Protection Proceedings Financial risks, including risks associated with our ability to: • maintain adequate cash on hand • continue to maintain our current cash management arrangements • satisfy claims, including our ability to sell assets to satisfy claims against us • realize full or fair value for any remaining assets we may divest as part of any plans for the conclusion of the Creditor Protection Proceedings • successfully monetize remaining assets 5 Table of Contents Operational risks, including risks associated with our ability to: • operate effectively in consultation with the Canadian Monitor, and work effectively with the U.K. Administrators in their administration of the EMEA Debtors and the U.S. Principal Officer in his oversight of the U.S. Debtors • actively and adequately communicate on and respond to events, media and rumors associated with the Creditor Protection Proceedings that could adversely affect our relationships with stakeholders, including employees • retain and incentivize key employees or otherwise replace key employees • in connection with stranded contracts, retain our suppliers on acceptable terms and avoid disruptions in our supply chain in order to ultimately sell or transfer these contracts to a third party Procedural risks, including risks associated with our ability to: • obtain court orders or approvals with respect to motions we file from time to time, including motions seeking extensions of the applicable stays of actions and proceedings against us, or obtain timely approval of transactions outside the ordinary course of business, or other events that may require a timely reaction by us or present opportunities for us • resolve the claims made against us in such proceedings for amounts not exceeding our recorded liabilities subject to compromise • prevent third parties from obtaining court orders or approvals that are contrary to our interests, such as conversion of the U.S. Debtors Chapter 11 reorganization proceedings to Chapter 7 liquidation cases, or the opening of secondary insolvency proceedings in respect of an EMEA Debtor in that debtor’s own country of incorporation • reject, repudiate or terminate contracts • obtain court approval in various jurisdictions of any agreement among the various estates for an allocation of proceeds from the sales of our assets and businesses 6 Table of Contents Because of these risks and uncertainties, and as we have not yet developed any plans for the conclusion of the Creditor Protection Proceedings, we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of the process, or predict or quantify the potential impact on our remaining restructuring work or financial condition. The Creditor Protection Proceedings provide us with a period of time to maximize value through sales, and develop plans for the conclusion of the Creditor Protection Proceedings. However, it is not possible to predict the outcome of these proceedings and, as such, the realization of assets and discharge of liabilities are each subject to significant uncertainty. Accordingly, substantial doubt exists as to whether we will be able to continue as a going concern. Our continuation as a going concern is dependent upon, among other things, our ability to develop, obtain confirmation or approval of, and implement any plans for the conclusion of the Creditor Protection Proceedings; maintain adequate cash on hand and resolve ongoing issues with creditors and other third parties. There can be no assurance of a successful conclusion of the Creditor Protection Proceedings. A long period under Creditor Protection Proceedings may exacerbate the potential harm to our remaining restructuring work. Continuing or increasing pressure on our cash and liquidity could materially and adversely affect our ability to fund our remaining restructuring work, and develop and implement any plans for the conclusion of the Creditor Protection Proceedings. Additional sources of funds may not be available. Historically, we deployed our cash throughout the corporate group, through a variety of intercompany borrowing and transfer pricing arrangements. As a result of the Creditor Protection Proceedings, cash in the various jurisdictions is generally available to fund operations in the particular jurisdictions, but generally is not freely transferable between jurisdictions or regions, other than as highlighted in “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” section of this report. Thus, there is greater pressure and reliance on cash balances and generation capacity in specific regions and jurisdictions and there can be no guarantee that sufficient cash will be available to fund operations in all jurisdictions. We cannot provide any assurance that our net cash requirements will be as we currently expect and will be sufficient for the successful development, approval and implementation of any plans for the conclusion of the Creditor Protection Proceedings. There can be no assurance that any further required court approvals for any future transactions will be obtained. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to maintain ongoing deployment of cash resources throughout the Company in connection with ordinary course intercompany trade obligations. If our subsidiaries are unable to pay dividends or provide us with loans or other forms of financing in sufficient amounts, or if there are any restrictions on the transfer of cash between us and our subsidiaries, including those imposed by courts, foreign governments and commercial limitations on transfers of cash pursuant to our joint venture commitments, the cash positions of the Canadian Debtors would likely be under pressure and our liquidity and our ability to meet our obligations would be adversely affected. We may not be able to successfully develop, obtain all requisite approvals for, or implement any plans for the conclusion of the Creditor Protection Proceedings. Failure to obtain the requisite approvals for, or failure to successfully develop and implement our plans for the conclusion of the Creditor Protection Proceedings within the time granted by the courts would, in all likelihood, lead to the liquidation of all of our assets. Pursuant to the ongoing Creditor Protection Proceedings we are working on developing plans for the conclusion of the Creditor Protection Proceedings in the various jurisdictions in which we have initiated proceedings. For each plan in the relevant jurisdictions, we must obtain the approvals of the respective courts and creditors, and the Canadian Monitor (in Canada) and U.K. Administrators (in the U.K.) and the U.S. Principal Officer. We may not receive the requisite approvals and even if we do, a dissenting holder of a claim against us may challenge and ultimately delay the final approval and implementation of plans for the conclusion of the Creditor Protection Proceedings. If we are not successful in developing plans for the conclusion of the Creditor Protection Proceedings, or if we are successful in developing them but do not receive the requisite approvals, it is not clear what distributions, if any, holders of claims against us would receive. Should the stay or moratorium period and any subsequent extension thereof not be sufficient to develop and implement any of the plans for the conclusion of the Creditor Protection Proceedings, or should such plans not be approved by creditors and the courts and, in any such case, the Debtors lose the protection of such stay or moratorium, substantially all of our debt obligations will become due and payable immediately, or subject to acceleration, in which case it is likely that holders of claims would receive substantially less favorable treatment than they would receive if we were able to develop and implement plans for the conclusion of the Creditor Protection Proceedings. Allocation of the sale proceeds of our businesses among the various Nortel entities participating in these sales may take considerable time to resolve. At various times during the second half of 2009 and the first quarter of 2010, the Canadian Debtors, the U.S. Debtors and the U.K. Administrators, with the involvement of the Canadian Monitor, the U.S. Principal Officer, the U.S. Creditors’ Committee and the 7 Table of Contents Bondholder Group engaged in negotiations regarding the scope and terms of a proposed protocol for resolving disputes concerning the allocation of sale proceeds (Allocation Protocol), as required by the terms of the IFSA. However, it became apparent that the parties had differing views concerning the allocation of the sale proceeds, inter-company claims and the scope of the Allocation Protocol. In order to address this impasse, the Canadian Debtors, the U.S. Debtors and the U.K. Administrators agreed to temporarily suspend negotiations on the Allocation Protocol and instead focussed on a process to facilitate a comprehensive settlement to resolve all material outstanding inter-estate matters, including the allocation of the sale proceeds and the settlement of inter-company claims. To this end, the parties met on several occasions to outline, on a confidential and without prejudice basis, their respective allocation methodologies and potential inter-company claims that may be asserted. As a result of these meetings and the complexity of the issues that were raised, the Canadian Debtors, the U.S. Debtors, the EMEA Debtors, the U.K. Administrators, the Canadian Monitor the U.S. Principal Officer, the U.S. Creditors’ Committee, the Bondholder Group and certain other interested parties (the Mediation Parties) agreed that these inter-estate negotiations would be aided by the appointment of a neutral mediator to review and mediate the issues. The parties selected Layn R. Phillips, a former U.S. federal district court judge and experienced commercial mediator, to serve as mediator and review the positions and viewpoints of the various parties on allocation and unresolved inter-estate matters. A confidential, non-binding mediation was held in November 2010. The mediation session did not result in the resolution of the issues presented. As a result of the November 2010 mediation session, and positions taken in the CCAA Proceedings, it became apparent that the U.K. Administrators and certain other parties, who were also substantial creditors of the EMEA Debtors, were alleging a number of significant potential claims against the Canadian Debtors as well as the U.S. Debtors. These potential claims are integral to the allocation positions of these parties and include allegations of proprietary and trust-type claims. Consequently, the Canadian Monitor and the Canadian Debtors determined that, absent reaching a comprehensive settlement of allocation and inter-company claims issues, these specific claims needed to be resolved first. Accordingly, the Canadian Debtors obtained an order of the Canadian Court establishing a process for the calling of claims by EMEA Creditors. See “Creditor Protection Proceedings Claims” below. Notwithstanding the commencement of this process, the Mediation Parties continued to engage in discussions regarding the resumption of mediation and another confidential, non-binding mediation was held in April 2011. On April 13, 2011, we announced that the mediation process that had been commenced in respect of the allocation of sale proceeds of our various business and asset divestitures and other inter-estate matters, including inter-company claims, had ended without resolution of the matters in dispute. In light of the unsuccessful conclusion of the mediation process, we announced that delays in the ultimate resolution of allocation and inter-company claims matters potentially could be significant, and that such delays would result in a corresponding significant delay in the timing of distributions to holders of validated claims of the various estates. On April 25, 2011, the U.S. Debtors and the U.S. Creditors’ Committee filed a joint motion for an order establishing an allocation protocol for the sale proceeds as between various Nortel legal entities (Original Protocol Motion), and for related relief. Subsequently, as a result of further discussions, the U.S. Debtors and the U.S. Creditors’ Committee together with the Canadian Debtors jointly filed an amended and restated version of the Original Protocol Motion and agreed to collectively seek an order establishing an allocation protocol before the Canadian Court and the U.S. Court. The proposed order would have had the U.S. Court and the Canadian Court establish procedures and an expedited schedule for the cross-border resolution by the U.S. Court and the Canadian Court on the allocation of proceeds from the sales of our businesses and from the sale of our patent portfolio. The motion was heard at a joint hearing of the U.S. Court and Canadian Court on June 7, 2011. On June 20, 2011, we announced that the Canadian Court and the U.S. Court had reserved their decisions on the motions heard by such courts on June 7, 2011, and directed us, NNL and the other Canadian Debtors, NNI and the other U.S. Debtors, the EMEA Debtors, as well as certain other parties, to participate in a joint mediation of the issues raised in the motions. The directions provided that the Canadian Court and the U.S. Court together would appoint a sole mediator by supplemental order and that the mediator would determine the time, date, place and protocol of the mediation. On June 17, 2011, and as supplemented on June 29, 2011, the Canadian Court and the U.S. Court appointed The Honourable Warren K. Winkler, Chief Justice of Ontario, as the sole mediator (the Mediator) for the mediation. The mediation was ordered because of both courts’ concern that the time required to prepare their decisions would also delay allocation proceedings and, therefore, distributions to creditors of the various Nortel estates. The Mediator has the authority, in consultation with the parties to the mediation, to determine the scope of the mediation, as he deems appropriate, including the issue of allocation of the sale proceeds of Nortel’s various businesses and patent portfolio, and global issues relating to allocation and claims. Participation in this mediation is mandatory. The mediation process will be terminated (i) by a declaration by the Mediator that a settlement has been reached (any such settlement would be subject to the approval of the Canadian Court and the U.S. Court, on notice to parties in interest), (ii) by a declaration by the Mediator that further efforts at mediation are no longer considered worthwhile, or (iii) for any other reason as determined by the Mediator. The mediation has not yet commenced. Given that a number of the Nortel Sellers are subject to discrete insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings in different jurisdictions while the remainder of the Nortel Sellers are not subject to any court supervision or proceedings, there does not exist any 8 Table of Contents single court, tribunal or other legal authority that has competent jurisdiction over all the Nortel Sellers or that can impose a binding allocation on them. Consequently, a timely and effective process for resolving allocation disputes necessitates a consensual resolution among all of the relevant parties. Delays in the ultimate resolution of allocation and inter-company claims matters potentially could be significant, particularly if the EMEA Claims are not settled and must be determined and resolved in accordance with the process established by the EMEA Claims Procedure Order. Such delays would result in a corresponding delay in the timing of distributions to holders of validated claims against the various estates. During the pendency of the Creditor Protection Proceedings, our financial results may be volatile and may not reflect historical trends. Also, as a result of the Creditor Protection Proceedings, our internal controls are currently subject to review and modification. During the pendency of the Creditor Protection Proceedings, we expect our financial results to continue to be volatile as asset impairments, asset dispositions, restructuring activities, contract terminations and rejections, and claims assessments may significantly impact our consolidated financial statements. As a result, our historical financial performance is not indicative of our financial performance following the Petition Date. As a result of the Creditor Protection Proceedings, we have adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification 852 “Reorganizations” (ASC 852), effective January 14, 2009, which requires certain changes and additional reporting in our financial statements beginning in the quarter ended March 31, 2009. Also, as a result of the Creditor Protection Proceedings, our internal controls are currently subject to review and modification, and we may implement additional controls to accommodate the adoption of ASC 852 as well as any of the additional reporting requirements relating to our Creditor Protection Proceedings. The implementation of the foregoing may adversely affect the ability to timely file our reports. Canadian, U.S. and U.K. laws impair the ability of claimants to take action against us under our existing contracts, including the outstanding notes and related guarantees of us, NNL, NNI and NNCC. Subject to limited exceptions, all actions are stayed and ultimate recoveries cannot be determined at this time. Generally, in connection with the Creditor Protection Proceedings, all actions to enforce or otherwise effect payment or repayment of liabilities of any Debtor preceding the Petition Date, as well as pending litigation against any Debtor, are stayed. The U.S. Bankruptcy Code provides for all actions and proceedings against the U.S. Debtors to be stayed while the Chapter 11 Proceedings are pending. In Canada, the initial order from the Canadian Court also provides for a general stay of actions against the Canadian Debtors, officers and directors. This stay period currently extends to April 13, 2012 and is subject to further extension. With limited exceptions, the stays in effect pursuant to the Chapter 11 Proceedings and CCAA Proceedings generally preclude parties from taking any actions against the Debtors. Similarly, under the U.K. Administration Proceedings, subject to limited exceptions as may be approved by the U.K. Administrators or the English Court, no legal process (including legal proceedings, execution, distress and diligence) may be instituted or continued against the EMEA Debtors. Certain parties, including The Pensions Regulator in the U.K., have attempted to commence or continue proceedings against certain Debtors despite these limitations during the Creditor Protection Proceedings. While these limitations have continued to be recognized and enforced by the relevant courts, there can be no guarantee that these limitations will be successfully enforced in all circumstances. The rights of the indenture trustees (who represent the holders of debt securities issued or guaranteed by us, NNL, NNI and NNCC) to enforce remedies for defaults under our debt securities and guarantees are subject to the stays, and could be delayed or limited by the restructuring provisions of applicable Canadian, U.S. and U.K. creditor protection legislation. Moreover, we, NNL, NNI and NNCC have not made, and will likely continue not to make, any payments under our various debt securities during the Creditor Protection Proceedings, and holders of our debt securities may not be compensated for any delays in payment of principal, interest and costs, if any, including the fees and disbursements of the trustees. Plans for the conclusion of the Creditor Protection Proceedings, if successfully developed and accepted by the requisite majorities of each affected class of creditors and approved by the relevant courts, would be binding on all creditors within each affected class, including those that did not vote to accept the proposal. The ultimate recovery to creditors and security holders, if any, will not be determined until plans for the conclusion of the Creditor Protection Proceedings are developed and approved. At this time we do not know what values, if any, will be prescribed pursuant to any such plan to the securities held by each of these constituencies, or what form or amounts of distributions, if any, they may receive on account of their interests. If we are unable to retain qualified personnel at reasonable costs, we may not be able to achieve our objectives, and our ability to successfully conclude the Creditor Protection Proceedings may be harmed. We are dependent on the experience and industry knowledge of our senior management and other key employees to execute our remaining restructuring work and lead the Company during the Creditor Protection Proceedings and throughout the development and implementation of any plans for the conclusion of the Creditor Protection Proceedings. Competition for certain key positions remains strong. Our deteriorating financial performance, 9 Table of Contents along with the Creditor Protection Proceedings, and workforce reduction activities have created uncertainty that has led to an increase in unwanted attrition, and challenges in retaining qualified personnel. We are at risk of losing or being unable to hire talent critical to the remaining restructuring activities and to develop and implement any plans for the conclusion of the Creditor Protection Proceedings. Our ability to independently manage our remaining restructuring work is restricted during the Creditor Protection Proceedings, and steps or actions in connection therewith may require the approval of the respective courts, the creditors, the Canadian Monitor, the U.K. Administrators and the U.S. Principal Officer. Pursuant to the various court orders and statutory regimes to which we are subject during the Creditor Protection Proceedings, some or all of the decisions with respect to our remaining restructuring work may require consultation with, review by or ultimate approval of one or all of the respective courts in the several jurisdictions, the U.S. Creditors’ Committee, the Canadian creditors’ committee, the Bondholder Group, the Canadian Monitor, the U.K. Administrators and the U.S. Principal Officer. There can be no assurance that the U.S. Creditors’ Committee, the Bondholder Group, other creditors, the Canadian Monitor, the U.K. Administrators or the U.S. Principal Officer will support the Debtors’ positions on matters presented to the courts in the future, or on any plans for the conclusion of the Creditor Protection Proceedings, once developed and proposed. Disagreements between us and these various third parties could protract the Creditor Protection Proceedings, negatively impact the Debtors’ ability to conduct remaining restructuring work and delay the Debtors’ conclusion of the Creditor Protection Proceedings. Transfers or issuances of our equity, or a debt restructuring, may impair or reduce our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes in the future. Pursuant to U.S. tax rules, a corporation is generally permitted to deduct from taxable income in any year net operating losses (NOLs) carried forward from prior years. Our ability to utilize these NOL carryforwards could be subject to a significant limitation if we were to undergo an “ownership change” for purposes of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, during or as a result of our Chapter 11 Proceedings. The U.S. Court has entered an order that places certain restrictions on trading in NNC common shares and NNL preferred shares during the Creditor Protection Proceedings. However, we can provide no assurances that these limitations will prevent an “ownership change” or that our ability to utilize our NOL carryforwards may not be significantly limited as a result of our reorganization. A restructuring of our debt pursuant to the Creditor Protection Proceedings may give rise to cancellation of indebtedness or debt forgiveness (COD), which if it occurs would generally be non-taxable. If the COD is non-taxable, we will be required to reduce our NOL carryforwards and other attributes such as capital loss carryforwards and tax basis in assets, by an amount equal to the non-recognized COD. Therefore, it is possible that, as a result of the successful completion of plans for the conclusion of the Creditor Protection Proceedings, we will have a reduction of NOL carryforwards and/or other tax attributes in an amount that cannot be determined at this time and that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. Trading in our securities during the pendency of the Creditor Protection Proceedings is highly speculative, poses substantial risks, and is subject to certain restrictions imposed to protect our NOL carryforwards that are described directly above. NNC common shares have been delisted from the NYSE and the TSX, which has made our common shares significantly less liquid; and the TSX has also delisted the NNL preferred shares. We do not expect that any value will be prescribed to the NNC common shares and NNL preferred shares. Trading prices are very volatile and may bear little or no relationship to the actual recovery, if any, by the holders under any eventual court-approved plans for the conclusion of the Creditor Protection Proceedings. In such a plan, our existing securities may be cancelled and holders may receive no payment or other consideration in return, or they may receive a payment or other consideration that is less than the trading price or the purchase price of such securities. In addition, the U.S. Court has entered an order that places certain limitations on trading in certain of our securities to protect NOL carryforwards. For this reason, investors need the U.S. Debtors’ consent or court approval before effecting any transactions in NNC common shares or NNL preferred shares if they hold, or would as a result of the transaction acquire, at least 4.75% of the outstanding NNC common shares or any series of NNL preferred shares. Effective February 2, 2009, NNC common shares were delisted by the NYSE. On June 26, 2009, NNC common shares and NNL preferred shares were delisted from the TSX. NNC common shares currently continue to trade on the TSX and the “over-the-counter” (OTC) market in the U.S., and their price is quoted on the Pink Sheets Electronic Quotation Service (Pink Sheets) maintained by Pink Sheets LLC. We do not expect that holders of NNC common shares and NNL preferred shares will receive any value from the Creditor Protection Proceedings and we expect that the proceedings will ultimately result in the cancellation of these equity interests. OTC transactions involve risks in addition to those associated with transactions on a stock exchange. Many OTC stocks trade less frequently and in smaller volumes than stocks listed on an exchange. Accordingly, OTC-traded shares are less liquid and are likely to be more volatile than exchange-traded stocks. The price of NNC common shares is currently electronically displayed on the 10 Table of Contents Pink Sheets in the U.S., which is a quotation medium that publishes market maker quotes for OTC securities. It is not a stock exchange or listing service and is not owned, operated or regulated by any exchange. Investors are advised that Nortel has not taken any steps to have our securities quoted on the Pink Sheets; there is no relationship, contractual or otherwise, between an issuer whose securities are quoted on the Pink Sheets, and Pink Sheets LLC; and Pink Sheets LLC exercises no regulatory oversight over Nortel. Our status on the Pink Sheets is dependent on market makers’ willingness to continue to provide the service of accepting trades of NNC common shares. Some or all of the U.S. Debtors could be substantively consolidated. There is a risk that an interested party in the Chapter 11 Proceedings, including any of the U.S. Debtors, could request that the assets and liabilities of NNI, or those of other U.S. Debtors, be substantively consolidated with those of one or more other U.S. Debtors. While it has not been requested to date, we cannot assure you that substantive consolidation will not be requested in the future, or that the U.S. Court would not order it. If litigation over substantive consolidation occurs, or if substantive consolidation is ordered, the ability of a U.S. Debtor that has been substantively consolidated with another U.S. Debtor to make payments required with respect to its debt could be adversely affected. For example, the rights of unsecured debt holders of NNI may be diminished or diluted if NNI were consolidated with one or more entities that have a higher amount of unsecured priority claims or other unsecured claims relative to the value of their assets available to pay such claims. Risks Relating to Our Remaining Restructuring Work We are fully exposed to market risk primarily from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. Adverse fluctuations in these markets could negatively impact our remaining restructuring work and financial condition. To manage the risk from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates, we had entered into various derivative hedging transactions in accordance with our policies and procedures. However, as a result of our Creditor Protection Proceedings, the financial institutions that were our counterparties in these transactions have terminated the related instruments. Consequently, we are now fully exposed to these risks and expect to remain so exposed at least until the conclusion of the Creditor Protection Proceedings. Fluctuations in these or other rates could have an adverse effect on our remaining restructuring work and financial condition. Similarly, our debt is subject to changes in fair value resulting from changes in market interest rates. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights, or if we are subject to adverse judgments or settlements arising out of disputes regarding intellectual property rights, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Claims of intellectual property infringement or trade secret misappropriation may be asserted against us, or against our former customers in connection with their use of our products or our intellectual property rights may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or fail to provide significant competitive advantages. An unfavorable outcome in such a claim could require us to pay substantial monetary damages to a third party and indemnify former customers. Defense or assertion of claims of intellectual property infringement or trade secret misappropriation may require extensive participation by senior management and other key employees and may reduce their time and ability to focus on other aspects of our restructuring work. Successful claims of intellectual property infringement or other intellectual property claims against us, or a failure by us to protect our proprietary technology, could have a material adverse effect on our reamining restructuring work and financial condition. If we are unable to maintain the integrity of our information systems, our operations and remaining work under the Creditor Protection Proceedings may be harmed. We rely on the security of our information systems, among other things, to protect our proprietary information and information of our customers. If we do not maintain adequate security procedures over our information systems, we may have been or may be susceptible to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems to access our proprietary information or that of our customers. Even if we have been or are able to maintain procedures that are adequate to address current security risks, hackers or other unauthorized users may develop new techniques that enable them to successfully circumvent our security procedures. The failure to protect our proprietary information could seriously harm our remaining work under the Creditor Protection Proceedings or expose us to remediation costs or claims by our customers, employees or others that we did not adequately protect their proprietary information. In connection with our ongoing cost reduction activities and our remaining restructuring work, we continue to review all of our information systems and have commenced significant reductions in the number and complexity of our systems. In addition to significant cost reductions, the goal is for each Debtor estate to have in place stand-alone systems as required by each estate on an ongoing basis now that we have sold all of our businesses. This is a very complex task given the number of globally integrated 11 Table of Contents systems currently in place. Thus there is risk in the plan in particular with respect to the significant reduction in the number of inter-dependent systems and in establishing and effectively implementing separate stand-alone systems which in turn could negatively impact on our ability to continue to operate and our ability to continue to report our financial results in U.S. GAAP on a timely basis, or at all. Our risk management strategy may not be effective or commensurate to the risks we are facing. We maintain policies of insurance of the types and in the amounts that are appropriate for our circumstances. We have retained certain self-insurance risks with respect to certain employee benefit programs such as worker’s compensation, group health insurance, life insurance and other types of insurance. Our risk management programs and claims handling and litigation processes utilize internal professionals and external technical expertise. If this risk management strategy is not effective or is not commensurate to the risks we are facing, these risks could have a material adverse effect on our remaining restructuring work, financial condition and liquidity. 