Risk Factors Certain statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K contain words such as “could”, “expects”, “may”, “anticipates”, “believes”, “intends”, “estimates”, “plans”, “envisions”, “seeks” and other similar language and are considered forward-looking statements. These statements are based on our current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the operating environment, economies and markets in which we operate. In addition, other written or oral statements which are considered forward looking may be made by us or others on our behalf. These statements are subject to important risks, uncertainties and assumptions, which are difficult to predict and the actual outcome may be materially different. In particular, the risks described below could cause actual events to differ materially from those contemplated in forward-looking statements. Unless required by applicable securities laws, we do not have any intention or obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in our securities. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. We have organized our risks into the following categories: • Risks Relating to Our Restatements and Related Matters; • Risks Relating to Our Business; and • Risks Relating to Our Liquidity, Financing Arrangements and Capital. The above categories and the order in which we have listed our risk factors is not intended to limit your consideration of the possible effects of these risks on our business or to categorize or rank our risks by likelihood of occurrence or severity to our business. Any adverse effects related to the risks discussed below may, and likely would, have an adverse impact on many aspects of our business. Risks Relating to Our Restatements and Related Matters Our three restatements of our consolidated financial statements and related events have had, and will continue to have, a material adverse effect on us. As described in the “MD&A” and “Controls and Procedures” sections of this report, we have effected successive restatements of prior periods financial results. As described in more detail in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003, or the 2003 Annual Report, following the restatement (effected in December 2003) of our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000 and for the quarters ended March 31, 2003 and June 30, 2003, or the First Restatement, the Audit Committee initiated an independent review of the facts and circumstances leading to the First Restatement, or the Independent Review, and engaged Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale & Dorr LLP, or Wilmer Hale, to advise it in connection with the Independent Review. This review and related work led to a variety of actions, including the termination for cause of our and NNL’s former president and chief executive officer, chief financial officer and controller in April 2004 and seven additional individuals with significant responsibilities for financial reporting in August 2004, and ultimately to the restatement of our financial statements for 19 the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001 and the quarters ended March 31, 2003 and 2002, June 30, 2003 and 2002 and September 30, 2003 and 2002, or the Second Restatement. Over the course of the Second Restatement process, we, together with our independent registered chartered accountants, identified a number of material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as at December 31, 2003. Five of those material weaknesses continued to exist as at December 31, 2004 and 2005. In addition, in January 2005, our and NNL’s Boards of Directors adopted in their entirety the governing principles for remedial measures identified through the Independent Review. We continue to develop and implement these remedial measures. As part of these remedial efforts and to compensate for the unremedied material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we undertook intensive efforts in 2005 to validate and enhance our controls and procedures relating to the recognition of revenue. These efforts included, among other measures, extensive documentation and review of customer contracts for revenue recognized in 2005 and earlier periods. As a result of the contract review, it became apparent that certain of the contracts had not been accounted for properly under U.S. GAAP. Most of these errors related to contractual arrangements involving multiple deliverables, for which revenue recognized in prior periods should have been deferred to later periods under American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Statement of Position, or SOP 97-2, “Software Revenue Recognition”, or SOP 97-2, and SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin, or SAB 104, “Revenue Recognition”, or SAB 104. In addition, based on our review of our revenue recognition policies and discussions with our independent registered chartered accountants as part of the 2005 audit, we determined that in our previous application of these policies, we misinterpreted certain of these policies principally related to complex contractual arrangements with customers where multiple deliverables were accounted for using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting under SOP 81-1. Management’s determination that these errors required correction led to the Audit Committee’s decision on March 9, 2006 to effect a further restatement of our consolidated financial statements. The need for the Third Restatement resulted in a delay in filing our and NNL’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, or the 2005 Annual Reports, and our anticipated delay in filing the 2006 First Quarter Reports. Following the announcement of the Third Restatement on March 10, 2006, the Audit Committee directed the Internal Audit group to conduct a review of the facts and circumstances surrounding the Third Restatement principally to review the underlying conduct of the initial recording of the errors and any overlap of items restated in the Third Restatement and the Second Restatement, or the Internal Audit Review. Internal Audit engaged third party forensic accountants to assist in the review. The work underlying the review is substantially complete. Internal Audit continues to review and assess its work and upon completion, will report its findings to the Audit Committee. For more information on our restatements and related matters, see the “MD&A” and the “Controls and Procedures” sections of this report and note 4 of the accompanying audited consolidated financial statements. As a result of these events, we have become subject to the following key risks, each of which is described in more detail below. Each of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. • We are subject to ongoing regulatory and criminal investigations in the U.S. and Canada, which could require us to pay substantial fines or other penalties and we cannot predict the timing of developments in these matters. • It is uncertain at this time if and when the Proposed Class Action Settlement will be finalized and approved. If the Proposed Class Action Settlement is finalized and approved, it would require us to pay $575 million in cash and would result in the dilution of existing equity position. • We are subject to additional significant pending civil litigation actions, which are not encompassed by the Proposed Class Action Settlement and which, if decided against us or as a result of settlement, could require us to pay substantial judgments, settlements, fines or other penalties and could result in the dilution of existing equity positions, and we cannot predict the timing of developments in these matters. • Material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements, including the Proposed Class Action Settlement, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, which could be very significant. • We and our independent registered chartered accountants have identified a number of material weaknesses related to our internal control over financial reporting and we have concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was ineffective as of December 31, 2005. These material weaknesses remain unremedied, which could continue to impact our ability to report our results of operations and financial condition accurately and in a timely manner. 20 • Full implementation of the governing principles of the Independent Review as they relate to remedial measures and the full remediation of our material weaknesses, internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures will continue to take significant time and effort. • Our credit ratings are below investment grade, and we are currently unable to access, in its current form, our shelf registration statement filed with the SEC, each of which may adversely affect our liquidity. • Continuing negative publicity has adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our business and the market price of our publicly traded securities. • We may not be able to attract or retain the personnel necessary to achieve our business objectives. • The delay in filing of our and NNL’s 2005 Form 10-K and related matters caused us, and the anticipated delay in filing the 2006 First Quarter Reports will cause us, to breach our public debt indentures and seek waivers from our lenders under the 2006 Credit Facility and from EDC under the EDC Support Facility, which may affect our liquidity. We and NNL are currently in discussions with these lenders and EDC to negotiate waivers and, although we expect we will reach agreement with the lenders and EDC with respect to the terms of an acceptable waiver, there can be no assurance we will obtain such waivers. Any future delays in filing our periodic reports could cause us to breach our public debt indentures and our obligations under our credit and support facilities. In such circumstances, it is possible that the holders of our public debt or our lenders would seek to accelerate the maturity of our debt or that EDC or the lenders would not grant us further waivers. • The anticipated delay in filing the 2006 First Quarter Reports or any other future breach of the continued listing requirements of the NYSE and/or TSX could cause the NYSE and/or the TSX to commence suspension or delisting procedures. • Our senior management and Board of Directors have been required to devote significant time to our multiple restatements and related matters, which could have an adverse impact on our business and operational activities. We are subject to ongoing regulatory and criminal investigations in the U.S. and Canada, which could require us to pay substantial fines or other penalties or subject us to sanctions and we cannot predict the timing of developments in these matters. We are under investigation by the SEC and the Ontario Securities Commission, or OSC. On April 5, 2004, we announced that the SEC had issued a formal order of investigation in connection with our previous restatement of financial results for certain periods and our announcements in March 2004 regarding the likely need to revise certain previously announced results and restate previously filed financial results for one or more earlier periods. On April 13, 2004, we announced that we had received a letter from the staff of the OSC advising us of an OSC Enforcement Staff investigation into the same matters that are the subject of the SEC investigation. We have also received U.S. federal grand jury subpoenas for the production of certain documents sought in connection with an ongoing criminal investigation being conducted by the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Texas, Dallas Division. On August 23, 2005, we received an additional U.S. federal grand jury subpoena in this investigation seeking production of additional documents, including documents relating to the Nortel Retirement Income Plan and the Nortel Long Term Investment Plan. Further, on August 16, 2004, we received a letter from the Integrated Market Enforcement Team of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police advising us that it would be commencing a criminal investigation into our financial accounting situation. We cannot predict when these investigations will be completed or the timing of any other developments, nor can we predict what the results of these investigations may be. The Proposed Class Action Settlement does not relate to these ongoing investigations and related matters. Expenses incurred in connection with these investigations (which include substantial fees of lawyers and other professional advisors and potential obligations to indemnify officers and directors who may be parties to such actions) could adversely affect our cash position. We may be required to pay material judgments, fines, penalties or settlements, consent to injunctions on future conduct, implementation of further remedial measures, the appointment of an independent adviser to review, assess and monitor our accounting practices, financial reporting and disclosure processes and internal control systems or suffer other penalties, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. The reserve recorded as a charge to our 2005 financial results in connection with the Proposed Class Action Settlement does not relate to these ongoing investigations and related matters, and we have not taken any reserves for any potential judgments, fines, penalties or settlements that may arise from these investigations. The investigations may adversely affect our ability to obtain, and/or increase the cost of obtaining, directors’ and officers’ liability insurance and/or other types of insurance, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the findings and outcomes of the 21 regulatory and criminal investigations may adversely affect the course of the civil litigation pending against us, which are more fully described below. The effects and results of these or other investigations may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. It is uncertain at this time if and when the Proposed Class Action Settlement will be finalized and approved. If the Proposed Class Action Settlement is finalized and approved, it would require us to pay a substantial cash amount and would result in a significant dilution of existing equity positions. On February 8, 2006, we first announced that, as a result of the previously announced mediation process we entered into with the lead plaintiffs in two significant class action lawsuits pending in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York and based on the recommendation of a senior Federal Judge, we and the lead plaintiffs have reached an agreement in principle to settle these lawsuits. This Proposed Class Action Settlement would be part of, and is conditioned on, our reaching a global settlement encompassing all pending shareholder class actions and proposed shareholder class actions commenced against us and certain other defendants following our announcement of revised financial guidance during 2001, and the Company’s revision of its 2003 financial results and restatement of other prior periods (effected in 2005). Discussions are ongoing regarding a process to resolve the Canadian actions as part of the terms of the Proposed Class Action Settlement and we and the lead plaintiffs are continuing discussions towards a definitive settlement agreement. At this time, it is not certain that such an agreement can be reached, that each of the actions noted above can be brought into, or otherwise bound by, the proposed settlement, if finalized, that such an agreement would receive the required court and other approvals in all applicable jurisdictions, and the timing of any developments related to these matters is not certain. The Proposed Class Action Settlement does not relate to the ongoing regulatory and criminal investigations and related matters and does not encompass a related Employment Retirement Income Security Act action, or the ERISA Action, or the pending application in Canada for leave to commence a derivative action against certain current and former officers and directors of Nortel, or the Pending Derivative Action. Under the terms of the proposed global settlement contemplated by the Proposed Class Action Settlement, we would, among other things, make a payment of $575 million in cash and issue 628,667,750 of Nortel Networks Corporation common shares (representing 14.5% of our equity as of February 7, 2006). The cash amount bears interest commencing March 23, 2006 at a prescribed rate and is to be held in escrow on June 1, 2006 pending satisfactory completion of all conditions of the Proposed Class Action Settlement. In the event of a share consolidation of Nortel Networks Corporation common shares, the number of Nortel Networks Corporation common shares to be issued pursuant to the Proposed Class Action Settlement would be adjusted accordingly. As a result of the Proposed Class Action Settlement, we have established a litigation provision and recorded a charge to our full-year 2005 financial results of $2,474 million, $1,899 million of which relates to the proposed equity component of the Proposed Class Action Settlement and will be adjusted in future quarters until the finalization of the settlement based on the market price of the Nortel Networks Corporation common shares issuable. This quarterly adjustment of the litigation provision may increase the fluctuations of our financial results and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Any change to the terms of the Proposed Class Action Settlement would likely also result in an adjustment to the litigation provision. On March 17, 2006, we announced that our insurers agreed to pay $228.5 million towards the settlement and we agreed with the insurers to certain indemnification obligations. We believe that these indemnification obligations would be unlikely to materially increase our total payment obligations above amounts already agreed to be paid under the Proposed Class Action Settlement. If we have to indemnify our insurers under these indemnification obligations, however, any such payments could be material and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. The insurance payments would not reduce the amounts payable by us as noted above. We also agreed to certain corporate governance enhancements, including the codification or certain of our current governance practices (such as the annual election by our directors of a non-executive Board chair) in our Board of Directors written mandate and the inclusion in our annual proxy circular and proxy statement of a report on certain of our other governance practices (such as the process followed for the annual evaluation of the Board, committees of the Board and individual directors). The total settlement amount, which would include all plaintiffs’ court-approved attorneys’ fees, and expenses incurred in connection with these matters (which include substantial fees of lawyers and other professional advisors and potential obligations to indemnify officers and directors who may be parties to such actions) could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. The equity component of the Proposed 22 Class Action Settlement would result in a dilution of existing equity positions, could contribute to volatility in the market price of Nortel Networks Corporation common shares and could materially and adversely impact our ability to effect future financings with equity or equity related securities. We cannot predict the timing of developments in respect of the Proposed Class Action Settlement. For additional information related to our legal proceedings, see the “Legal Proceedings” section of this report and “Contingencies” in note 22 of the accompanying audited consolidated financial statements. We are subject to additional significant pending civil litigation actions, which are not encompassed by the Proposed Class Action Settlement and which, if decided against us or as a result of settlement, could require us to pay substantial judgments, settlements, fines or other penalties and could result in the significant dilution of existing equity positions, and we cannot predict the timing of developments in these matters. In addition to the shareholder class actions encompassed by the Proposed Class Action Settlement and litigation in the ordinary course of business, we are currently, and may in the future be, subject to class actions, other securities litigation and other actions arising in relation to our accounting restatements, including the ERISA Action and the Pending Derivative Action. Any such additional litigation could be time consuming, expensive and distracting from the conduct of our daily business. The adverse resolution of any specific lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on our ability to favorably resolve other lawsuits and on our financial condition and liquidity. We are unable at this time to estimate what our ultimate liability in these matters may be, and it is possible that we will be required to pay substantial judgments, settlements or other penalties and incur expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and such effects could be very significant. Although we maintain certain insurance coverage, a substantial amount of any such payments may not be covered by insurance. Expenses incurred in connection with these matters (which include substantial fees of lawyers and other professional advisors and potential obligations to indemnify officers and directors who may be parties to such actions) could adversely affect our cash position. In addition, the resolution of those matters may require us to issue equity or equity-related securities, which could potentially result in the significant dilution of existing equity positions. The reserve recorded as a charge to our 2005 financial results in connection with the Proposed Class Action Settlement does not relate to these additional litigation matters, and we have not taken any reserves for any potential judgments, settlements or other penalties that may arise from this additional litigation. We cannot predict the timing of developments in respect of these litigation matters. For additional information related to our legal proceedings, see the “Legal Proceedings” section of this report and “Contingencies” in note 22 of the accompanying audited consolidated financial statements. Material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements, including the Proposed Class Action Settlement, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, which could be very significant. We estimate that our cash will be sufficient to fund the changes to our business model in accordance with our strategic plan (see “Business Overview — Our Strategy and Outlook” in the MD&A section of this report), fund our investments and meet our customer commitments for at least the next twelve month period commencing December 31, 2005, including cash expenditures outlined under “Liquidity and Capital Resources — Future Uses of Liquidity” in the “MD&A” section of this report. In making this estimate, we have not assumed the need to make any payments in respect of fines or other penalties or judgments or settlements in connection with our pending civil litigation (other than those encompassed by the Proposed Class Action Settlement) or regulatory or criminal investigations related to the restatements, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, other than anticipated professional fees and expenses. Any such payments (other than those encompassed by the Proposed Class Action Settlement) could materially and adversely affect our cash position, our available cash and cash flow from operations may not be sufficient to pay them, and additional sources of funding may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. In addition, we continue to monitor the capital markets for opportunities to refinance upcoming debt maturities, as more fully discussed under “Our high level of debt could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.” If we are unable to refinance our existing debt that is coming due in 2007, should we decide to do so, the amount of cash available to finance our operations and other business activities and our ability to pay any judgments, fines, penalties or settlements, if any, would be significantly reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. 23 These circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, including by: • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash and/or cash flow from operations to payments of such judgments, fines, penalties or settlements, thereby reducing the availability of our cash and/or cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, R&D efforts and other general corporate purposes, including debt reduction; • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our payment obligations with respect to our outstanding indebtedness; • increasing the difficulty and/or cost to us of refinancing our indebtedness; • adversely affecting our credit ratings; • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the industries in which we operate; • making it more difficult or more costly for us to make acquisitions and investments; • limiting our ability to obtain, and/or increasing the cost of obtaining, directors’ and officers’ liability insurance and/or other types of insurance; and • restricting our ability to introduce new technologies and products and/or exploit business opportunities. We and our independent registered chartered accountants have identified a number of material weaknesses related to our internal control over financial reporting and concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was ineffective as at December 31, 2005. These material weaknesses remain unremedied, which could continue to impact our ability to report our results of operations and financial condition accurately and in a timely manner. Over the course of the First Restatement and Second Restatement, we and our independent registered Chartered Accountants, Deloitte & Touche LLP, or Deloitte, identified a number of material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, our management assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as at December 31, 2005 pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related SEC rules and concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as at December 31, 2005. Specifically, they concluded that five material weaknesses continued to exist as at December 31, 2005. Deloitte also reported on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as at December 31, 2005 and also concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as at December 31, 2005. The material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as at December 31, 2005, which remain unremedied, are: • lack of compliance with written Nortel procedures for monitoring and adjusting balances related to certain accruals and provisions, including restructuring charges and contract and customer accruals; • lack of compliance with Nortel procedures for applying applicable generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, to the initial recording of certain liabilities, including those described in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS, No. 5, “Accounting for Contingencies”, or SFAS No. 5, and to foreign currency translation as described in SFAS No. 52, “Foreign Currency Translation”, or SFAS No. 52; • lack of sufficient personnel with appropriate knowledge, experience and training in U.S. GAAP and lack of sufficient analysis and documentation of the application of U.S. GAAP to transactions, including, but not limited to, revenue transactions; • lack of a clear organization and accountability structure within the accounting function, including insufficient review and supervision, combined with financial reporting systems that are not integrated and which require extensive manual interventions; and • lack of sufficient awareness of, and timely and appropriate remediation of, internal control issues by Nortel personnel. After considering these material weaknesses, among other matters, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer have also concluded, most recently as at December 31, 2005, that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed in the reports we file and submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported as and when required. We continue to identify, develop and implement remedial measures and compensating procedures to address these material weaknesses. These material weaknesses, unless addressed, could result in accounting errors such as those underlying the Third Restatement and our prior restatements, as more fully discussed in the “Controls and Procedures” section of this report and our 2003 Annual Report. While our Board of Directors has approved the adoption of all of the recommendations for remedial measures contained in the “Summary of Findings and of Recommended Remedial Measures of the Independent Review” in the “Controls and Procedures” section of our 2003 Annual Report, and our 24 management has adopted a number of measures to strengthen our internal control over financial reporting and address our material weaknesses, we have not yet been able to address these material weaknesses and they may continue to remain unremedied for some time, which could adversely impact the accuracy and timeliness of future reports and filings we make with the SEC and OSC. In its assessment of our internal control over financial reporting, management observed, among other things, that (a) many of the reasons for weak internal control over financial reporting are pervasive and relate to our infrastructure and organization, (b) without significant infrastructure changes, including changes to the information systems and finance organizational structure, we will be utilizing short-term, time-consuming workaround solutions to address identified control issues as opposed to streamlining and building sustainable processes that involve the effective execution of stronger and more efficient monitoring and preventative controls, (c) in order to fully remediate the identified material weaknesses, we will need to put in place a more rigorous management assessment process while continuing to remedy deficiencies in the process, (d) a number of control design deficiencies, including those at the entity level, result in a control environment wherein the design or operation of the internal control components would not reduce to a relatively low level the risk that material misstatements caused by error or fraud may occur and may not be detected within a timely period in the normal course (entity level controls include those controls that have a pervasive effect on the organization), and (e) at the transaction process level, we need to improve upon the balance between detective and preventative controls. We continue to rely heavily on manual and detective controls and experience a high volume of post-close accounting adjustments, including out-of-period adjustments, all in the context of processes that are complex and fragmented. See “Remedial Measures” in the “Controls and Procedures” section of this report. In addition, in part as a result of the compensating procedures and processes that we are applying to our financial reporting process, during the preparation of our financial statements for recent periods (including 2004, 2005 and interim periods in 2005), we identified a number of adjustments to correct accounting errors related to prior periods, including the errors corrected by the Third Restatement, as more fully described in the “Controls and Procedures” section of this report. As long as we continue to have material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we may in future identify similar adjustments to prior period financial information. Adjustments that may be identified in the future could require further restatement of our financial statements. While we are implementing steps to restore the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures and to address the material weaknesses identified above, failure to restore the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures could continue to impact our ability to report our financial condition and results of operations accurately and in a timely manner and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Full implementation of the governing principles of the Independent Review as they relate to remedial measures, the full remediation of our material weaknesses, internal control over financial reporting, and disclosure controls and procedures will continue to take significant time and effort. We expect that the full implementation of the remedial measures contained in the Independent Review Summary and full remediation of our material weaknesses, our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures, will continue to take significant time and effort, due largely to the complexity and extensive nature of some of the remediation required and a need to increase the co-ordination of remedial efforts within the organization in order to implement one comprehensive remediation plan with a well defined set of objectives and agreed upon timelines. Management continues to assess the internal and external resources that will be needed to continue to implement, support, sustain and monitor the effectiveness of our ongoing and future remedial measures. We expect that our management will continue to devote significant time to the remedial measures necessary to improve our process and procedures, which could be time consuming and may disrupt our business. Our credit ratings are below investment grade, and we are currently unable to access, in its current form, our shelf registration statement filed with the SEC, each of which may adversely affect our liquidity. In 2004, after we had announced the likely need to revise certain previously announced results and restate previously filed financial statements for one or more periods, Standard & Poor’s, or S&P, downgraded its ratings of NNL. Currently, NNL’s long-term corporate credit rating from S&P is “B-”, its short-term corporate credit rating is “B-2” and its preferred share rating is “CCC-”. NNL’s long-term corporate credit rating from Moody’s is currently “B3” and its preferred share rating is “Caa3”. On March 10, 2006, as a result of the announcement of the Third Restatement, S&P placed its rating on NNL, including the “B-” long-term corporate rating, on creditwatch with negative implications. These ratings are below investment grade. Our credit ratings could be lowered or rating agencies could issue adverse commentaries in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of 25 operations, financial condition and liquidity. These ratings and our current credit condition affect, among other things, our ability to raise debt, access the commercial paper market (which is currently closed to us), engage in alternative financing arrangements, obtain bank financings and our ability and the cost to securitize receivables, obtain customer bid, performance-related and other bonds and contracts and/or enter into normal course derivative or hedging transactions. These factors also affect the terms under which some customers and suppliers are willing to continue to do business with us and the price of our publicly traded securities. Further, as a result of the delayed filing of our periodic reports as a result of our multiple restatements, we and NNL continue to be unable to use, in its current form as a short-form shelf registration statement, the remaining approximately $800 million of capacity for various types of securities under our SEC shelf registration statement. We will again become eligible for short-form shelf registration with the SEC after we have completed timely filings of our financial reports for twelve consecutive months. As a result, our current ability to access the capital markets is constrained, which may adversely affect our liquidity. Continuing negative publicity has affected and may continue to adversely affect our business and the market price of our publicly traded securities. As a result of our multiple restatements, we have been the subject of continuing negative publicity. This negative publicity has contributed to significant declines in the prices of our publicly traded securities. This negative publicity has and may have an effect on the terms under which some customers and suppliers are willing to continue to do business with us and could adversely affect our financial performance or financial condition. Continuing negative publicity could continue to have a material adverse effect on our business and the market price of our publicly traded securities. We may not be able to attract or retain the personnel necessary to achieve our business objectives. Competition for certain key positions and specialized technical personnel in the high-technology industry remains strong. Our future success depends in part on our continued ability to hire, assimilate in a timely manner and retain qualified personnel, particularly in key senior management positions and in our key areas of potential growth. The loss of key managers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. An important factor in attracting and retaining qualified employees is our ability to provide employees with the opportunity to participate in the potential growth of our business through programs such as stock option plans, restricted stock unit plans and employee investment and share purchase plans. The scope and value of these programs are adversely affected by the volatility or negative performance of the market price for Nortel Networks Corporation’s common shares. In connection with our multiple restatements, we have suspended on multiple occasions: the grant of any new equity and exercise or settlement of previously outstanding awards under the Nortel 2005 Stock Incentive Plan, the purchase of Nortel Networks Corporation common shares under the stock purchase plans for eligible employees in eligible countries that facilitate the acquisition of Nortel Networks Corporation common shares; the exercise of outstanding options granted under the Nortel Networks Corporation common shares; the exercise of outstanding options granted under Nortel Networks Corporation 2000 Stock Option Plan, or the 2000 Plan, or the Nortel Networks Corporation 1986 Stock Option Plan as amended and restated, or the 1986 Plan, or the grant of any additional options under those plans, or the exercise of outstanding options granted under employee stock option plans previously assumed by us in connection with mergers and acquisitions; and the purchase of units in Nortel Networks stock fund or purchase of our common shares under our defined contribution and investments plans until such time as, at the earliest, we are in compliance with U.S. and Canadian regulatory securities filing requirements. Similarly, in connection with our restatements, the OSC has issued final orders prohibiting all trading by our directors, officers and certain current and former employees in our securities and those of NNL. Our current plan suspensions and OSC order as a result of the Third Restatement remain in effect. The OSC order will remain in effect until two full business days following the receipt by the OSC of all filings required to be made by us and NNL pursuant to Ontario securities law. Accordingly, our ability to provide employees with the opportunity to participate in our stock option plans, restricted stock unit plans and employee investment and share purchase plans has been adversely affected and certain employees have not been able to trade in our securities. These plan suspensions and OSC trading restrictions, and any future suspensions or trading restrictions, may have a material adverse effect on our ability to hire, assimilate in a timely manner and retain qualified personnel. In addition, in 2004, we terminated for cause our former president and chief executive officer, former chief financial officer, former controller and seven additional individuals with significant responsibilities for financial reporting. We also commenced litigation against our former president and chief executive officer, former chief financial officer and former controller, seeking the return of payments made to them under our bonus plan in 2003, and as part of the Proposed Class Action Settlement, we agreed to contribute one-half of any recovery in these actions to the total settlement amount. 26 In August and September 2004, as part of our strategic plan, we announced an anticipated workforce reduction of approximately 3,250 employees. Substantially all of the employee actions related to the focused workforce reduction were completed by September 30, 2005. In addition, in 2001, 2002 and 2003, we implemented a company-wide restructuring plan, which included a reduction of approximately two-thirds of our workforce over the three-year period. We may find it more difficult to attract or retain qualified employees because of our recent significant workforce reductions, business performance, management changes, restatement activities and resulting negative publicity and the resulting impacts on our incentive programs and incentive compensation plans. If we have not properly sized our workforce and retained those employees with the appropriate skills, our ability to compete effectively may be adversely affected. We are also more dependent on those employees we have retained, as many have taken on increased responsibilities due to workforce reductions. If we are not successful in attracting, recruiting or retaining qualified employees, including members of senior management, we may not have the personnel necessary to achieve our business objectives, including the implementation of our remedial measures. There also can be no assurance that our management changes and workforce reductions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The delay in filing of our and NNL’s 2005 Form 10-K and related matters caused us, and the anticipated delay in filing the 2006 First Quarter Reports will cause us, to breach our public debt indentures and seek waivers from our lenders under the 2006 Credit Facility and from EDC under the EDC Support Facility, which may affect our liquidity. There can be no assurance that we will receive such waivers. Any future delays in filing our periodic reports could cause us to breach our public debt indentures and our obligations under our credit and support facilities. In such circumstances, it is possible that the holders of our public debt or our lenders would seek to accelerate the maturity of our debt or that EDC or the lenders would not grant us further waivers. As a result of the delayed filing of the 2005 Annual Reports with the SEC, an event of default occurred under the 2006 Credit Facility. As a result of this and certain other related breaches, lenders holding greater than 50% of each tranche under the 2006 Credit Facility have the right to accelerate such tranche, and lenders holding greater than 50% of all of the secured loans under the 2006 Credit Facility have the right to exercise rights against certain collateral. The entire $1.3 billion under the 2006 Credit Facility is currently outstanding. In addition, as a result of the delayed filing of this report with the SEC and other related breaches, EDC has the right to refuse to issue additional support and terminate its commitments under the EDC Support Facility, or require that NNL cash collateralize all existing support. As at December 31, 2005, there was approximately $162 million of outstanding support under the EDC Support Facility. As a result of the delayed filing of this report with the SEC, we and NNL were not in compliance with our obligations to deliver our SEC filings to the trustees under our public debt indentures. The delay in filing this report did not result, and the anticipated delay in filing the 2006 First Quarter Reports (which we are obligated to deliver to the trustees by May 25, 2006) will not result, in an automatic default and acceleration of such long-term debt. Neither the trustee under any such public debt indenture nor the holders of at least 25% of the outstanding principal amount of any series of debt securities issued under the indentures have the right to accelerate the maturity of such debt securities unless we or NNL, as the case may be, fail to file and deliver our required SEC filings within 90 days after the above mentioned holders have given notice of such default to us or NNL. While such notice could have been given at any time after March 30, 2006 as a result of the delayed filing of this report, neither we nor NNL has received such a notice to the date of this report. In addition, any acceleration of the loans under the 2006 Credit Facility would result in a cross-default under the public debt indentures that would give the trustee under any such public debt indenture or the holders of at least 25% of the outstanding principal amount of any series of debt securities issued under the indentures the right to accelerate such series of debt securities. Approximately $500 million of debt securities of NNL (or its subsidiaries) and $1.8 billion of convertible debt securities of us (guaranteed by NNL) are currently outstanding under the indentures. The delay in the filing of our 2006 First Quarter Report with the SEC will result in a breach of our public debt indentures and our obligations under the 2006 Credit Facility and the EDC Support Facility and will require us to seek waivers for this breach from EDC under the EDC Support Facility and our lenders under the 2006 Credit Facility, which could reduce our access to the EDC Support Facility and may adversely affect our liquidity. In such circumstances, it is possible that the holders of our public debt or the lenders under the 2006 Credit Facility would seek to accelerate the maturity of that debt and that EDC our lenders would not grant a waiver or that the terms of such a waiver would be unfavorable. We and NNL are currently in discussions with the lenders and EDC to negotiate waivers under the 2006 Credit Facility and the EDC Support Facility related to the Third Restatement and the delay in filing the 2005 Annual Reports and the 27 anticipated delay in filing the 2006 First Quarter Reports. We expect we will reach agreement with the lenders and EDC with respect to the terms of an acceptable waiver, but there can be no assurance we will obtain such waivers. If an acceleration of our and NNL’s obligations were to occur, we and NNL may be unable to meet our respective payment obligations with respect to the related indebtedness. Any such acceleration could also adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity and the market price of our publicly traded securities. The anticipated delay in filing the 2006 First Quarter Reports or any other future breach of the continued listing requirements of the NYSE and TSX could cause the NYSE and/or the TSX to commence suspension or delisting procedures. We have breached the continued listing requirements of the NYSE and TSX by the delayed filing of this report and certain prior periodic reports due to our multiple restatements. Any future breach of the continued listing requirements, including related to our anticipated delay in filing our 2006 First Quarter Report, could cause the NYSE or TSX to commence suspension or delisting procedures in respect of Nortel Networks Corporation common shares or other of our or NNL’s listed securities. The commencement of any suspension or delisting procedures by either exchange remains, at all times, at the discretion of such exchange and would be publicly announced by the exchange. If a suspension or delisting were to occur, there would be significantly less liquidity in the suspended or delisted securities. In addition, our ability to raise additional necessary capital through equity or debt financing, and attract and retain personnel by means of equity compensation, would be greatly impaired. Furthermore, with respect to any suspended or delisted securities, we would expect decreases in institutional and other investor demand, analyst coverage, market making activity and information available concerning trading prices and volume, and fewer broker-dealers would be willing to execute trades with respect to such securities. A suspension or delisting would likely decrease the attractiveness of Nortel Networks Corporation common shares or other listed securities of Nortel Networks Corporation and NNL to investors and cause the trading volume of Nortel Networks Corporation common shares or other listed securities of Nortel Networks Corporation and NNL to decline, which could result in a decline in the market price of such securities. Risks Relating to Our Business Our operating results have historically been subject to yearly and quarterly fluctuations and are expected to continue to fluctuate, which may adversely affect the market price of our publicly traded securities. Factors contributing to these fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operating results have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, subject to quarterly and yearly fluctuations as a result of a number of factors. These factors include: • our ability to stimulate customer spending by anticipating and offering products and services that customers will require in the future to increase the efficiency and profitability of their networks; • our ability to focus our business on what we believe to be potentially higher growth and higher margin businesses while balancing the higher operational and financial risks associated with these higher growth and higher margin businesses; • our ability to enter into strategic alliances and make investments, including acquisitions, to strengthen our business and to dispose of or exit non-core businesses; • the impact of acquired businesses and technologies on our revenues and cost structure; • the size and timing of customer orders and shipments; • the recognition and deferral of revenues in accordance with GAAP, which can vary significantly depending on contractual practices and associated selling processes; • our ability to fund and sustain our research and development activities and their impact on the development of future products; • the ability of our customers and suppliers to obtain financing to fund capital expenditures; • the impact of global economic conditions and other trends and factors affecting the telecommunications industry that are beyond our control, which may result in reduced demand and pricing pressure on our products, as discussed below; • fluctuations in our gross margins, as discussed below; • our ability to execute our strategic plan and to successfully complete programs on a timely basis to reduce our cost structure, including fixed costs, without negatively impacting our relationships with our customers, to streamline our operations and to reduce product costs; 28 • the impact of our product development schedules, product quality variances, manufacturing capacity and lead times required to produce our products and ability to successfully manage our supply-chain and contract manufacturers; • our ability to maintain appropriate inventory levels; • our ability to focus on the day-to-day operation of our business while effecting our multiple restatements, implementing improvements to our internal controls and procedures, including our accounting systems, internal processes and organizations, finalizing and implementing the Proposed Class Action Settlement and addressing the other civil litigation actions and investigations related to our restatements; • the retention of qualified personnel and our ability to stabilize and develop our senior management team; • the litigation reserve recorded in connection with the Proposed Class Action Settlement, the equity component of which will be adjusted in future quarters until the finalization of the settlement; • our ability to obtain payment from customers on a timely basis and the related impact on provisions; • the inherent uncertainties of using forecasts, estimates and assumptions for asset valuations and in determining the amounts of accrued liabilities, provisions, including with respect to customer payments, and other items in our consolidated financial statements; • the impact of changes in global capital markets and interest rates, including on our pension plan assets and obligations; • the impact of fair value accounting for employee stock options which requires us to record an expense over the stock option vesting period, based on the fair value at the date the options are granted; • the requirement to perform goodwill impairment tests on an annual basis and between annual tests in certain circumstances, to value our deferred tax assets and to partially accrue unfunded pension liabilities; • the impact of agreements we have entered into that may require us to make certain indemnification payments to third parties in the event of certain changes in an underlying economic characteristic related to assets, liabilities or equity securities of such third parties. The occurrence of events that may cause us to become liable to make an indemnification payment may be beyond our control and an obligation to make a significant indemnification payment under such agreements could have a negative effect on our reported results; • our ability to successfully comply with increased and complex regulations; • accruals for employee incentive bonuses; • further restructuring costs; and • the impact of higher insurance premiums and deductibles and greater limitations on insurance coverage. As a consequence, operating results for a particular future period are difficult to predict, and therefore, prior results are not necessarily indicative of results in future periods. In addition, our results for any particular period may be adversely affected by developments in the ongoing litigation and investigations relating to our restatements. Any of the foregoing factors, or any other factors described herein, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition that could adversely affect the market price of our publicly traded securities. Global economic conditions and other trends and factors affecting the telecommunications industry are beyond our control and may result in reduced demand and pricing pressure on our products. Certain trends and factors which may affect the industry are beyond our control and may adversely affect our business and results of operations. These trends and factors include: • adverse changes in the public and private equity and debt markets and our ability, as well as the ability of our customers and suppliers, to obtain financing or to fund working capital and capital expenditures; • adverse changes in the credit quality of our customers and suppliers; • adverse changes in the market conditions in our industry and the specific markets for our products; • the trend towards the sale of converged networking solutions, which could lead to reduced capital spending on multiple networks by our customers, and other significant technology shifts which could result in rapidly declining markets, including for our legacy products, and disproportionate growth in new technologies; • visibility to, and the actual size and timing of, capital expenditures by our customers; • inventory practices, including the timing of product and service deployment, of our customers; • the amount of network capacity and the network capacity utilization rates of our customers, and the amount of sharing and/or acquisition of new and/or existing network capacity by our customers; • policies of our customers regarding utilization of single or multiple vendors for the products they purchase; • the overall trend toward industry consolidation and rationalization among our customers, competitors and suppliers; 29 • conditions in the broader market for communications products, including data networking products and computerized information access equipment and services; • increased price competition, particularly from low cost competitors; • changes in legislation or accounting rules and governmental and environmental regulation or intervention affecting communications or data networking; • computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems; • acts of war, terrorism or natural disasters that could lead to disruptions in general global economic activity, changes in logistics and security arrangements and reduced customer demand for our products and services; and • cautious capital spending in our industry, which has affected, and could affect, demand for, or pricing pressures on, our products. We face significant competition, may not be able to maintain our market share and may suffer from competitive pricing practices. We operate in a highly volatile industry that is characterized by industry rationalization and consolidation, vigorous competition for market share and rapid technological development. Competition is heightened in periods of slow overall market growth. These factors could result in aggressive pricing practices and growing competition from smaller niche companies and established competitors, as well as well-capitalized computer systems and communications companies, which, in turn, could separately or together with consolidation in the industry have a material adverse effect on our gross margins. Since some of the markets in which we compete are characterized by the potential for rapid growth and, in certain cases, low barriers to entry and rapid technological changes, smaller, specialized companies and start-up ventures are now, or may in the future become, principal competitors. We may also face competition from the resale of used telecommunications equipment, including our own, by failed, downsized or consolidated high technology enterprises and telecommunications service providers. In addition, we face the risk that certain of our competitors may enter into additional business combinations, accelerate product development, or engage in aggressive price reductions or other competitive practices, which could make them larger, more diversified, lower cost, better capitalized, more powerful or more aggressive competitors. We expect that we will face additional competition from existing competitors and from a number of companies that have entered or may enter our existing and future markets. In particular, we currently, and may in the future, face increased competition from low cost competitors such as Huawei, ZTE Corporation and other aggressive entrants in the market seeking to grow market share. Some of our current and potential competitors have substantially greater marketing, technical and financial resources, including access to capital markets and/or the ability to provide customer financing in connection with the sale of products. Many of our current and potential competitors have also established, or may in the future establish, relationships with our current and potential customers. Other competitive factors include the ability to provide new technologies and products, end-to-end networking solutions, and new product features, such as security, as well as conformance to industry standards. Increased competition could result in price reductions, negatively affecting our operating results and reducing profit margins, and could potentially lead to a loss of market share. We may be materially and adversely affected by cautious capital spending by our customers. Increased consolidation among our customers and the loss of customers in certain markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Continued cautiousness in capital spending by service providers and other customers may affect our revenues more than we currently expect and may require us to adjust our current business model. Our revenues and operating results have been and may continue to be materially and adversely affected by the continued cautiousness in capital spending by our customers. We have focused on the larger customers in certain markets, which provide a substantial portion of our revenues. Increased industry consolidation among our customers may lead to downward pressure on the prices of our products, reduced spending, or a loss, reduction or delay in business from one or more of these customers. Such increased industry consolidation among our customers, reduced spending, a loss, reduction or delay in business from one or more of these customers, or a failure to achieve a significant market share with these customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. As a result, our revenues and cash flows may be materially lower than we expect and we may be required to further reduce our capital expenditures and investments or take other measures in order to meet our cash requirements. 30 Rationalization and consolidation in the industry may lead to increased competition and harm our business. The industry has experienced consolidation and rationalization and we expect this trend to continue. There have been adverse changes in the public and private equity and debt markets for industry participants, which have affected their ability to obtain financing or to fund capital expenditures. Some industry participants have experienced financial difficulty and have filed, or may file, for bankruptcy protection or may be acquired by other industry participants. Other industry participants may merge and we and one or more of our competitors may each supply products to the companies that have merged or will merge. This rationalization and/or consolidation could result in our dependence on a smaller number of customers, purchasing decision delays by the merged companies and/or our playing a lesser role, or no longer playing a role, in the supply of communications products to the merged companies and downward pressure on pricing of our products. This rationalization and/or consolidation could also cause increased competition among our customers and pressure on the pricing of their products and services, which could cause further financial difficulties for our customers and result in reduced spending. A rationalization of industry participants could also increase the supply of used communications products for resale, resulting in increased competition and pressure on the pricing for our new products. In addition, telecommunications equipment suppliers may enter into business combinations, including the proposed merger of Lucent and Alcatel, or may be acquired by or sell a substantial portion of their assets to other competitors, resulting in accelerated product development, increased financial strength, or a broader base of customers, creating even more powerful or aggressive competitors. We may also see rationalization among equipment/component suppliers. The business failures of operators, competitors or suppliers may cause uncertainty among investors and in the industry generally and harm our business. We operate in highly dynamic and volatile industries characterized by rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions and short product life cycles. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions and short product life cycles. Our success depends, in substantial part, on the timely and successful introduction of high quality new products and upgrades to replace our legacy products with declining market demand, as well as cost reductions on current products to address the operational speed, bandwidth, efficiency and cost requirements of our customers. Our success will also depend on our ability to comply with emerging industry standards, to operate with products of other suppliers, to integrate, simplify and reduce the number of software programs used in our portfolio of products, to address emerging market trends, to provide our customers with new revenue-generating opportunities and to compete with technological and product developments carried out by others. The development of new, technologically advanced products, including IP-optimized networking solutions, software products and 3G wireless networks, is a complex and uncertain process resulting in the increasing importance of maintaining financial flexibility to react to changing market conditions and requiring significant R&D commitments and high levels of innovation, as well as the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. Investments in this environment may result in our R&D and other expenses growing at a faster rate than our revenues, particularly since the initial investment to bring a product to market may be high or market trends could change unexpectedly. We may not be successful in targeting new market opportunities, in developing and commercializing new products in a timely manner or in achieving market acceptance for our new products. The success of new or enhanced products, including IP-optimized networking solutions and 3G wireless networks, depends on a number of other factors, including the timely introduction of those products, market acceptance of new technologies and industry standards, the quality and robustness of new or enhanced products, competing product offerings, the pricing and marketing of those products and the availability of funding for those networks. Products and technologies developed by our competitors may render our products obsolete. Hackers may attempt to disrupt or exploit our customers’ use of our technologies. If we fail to respond in a timely and effective manner to unanticipated changes in one or more of the technologies affecting telecommunications and data networking or our new products or product enhancements fail to achieve market acceptance, our ability to compete effectively in our industry, and our sales, market share and customer relationships could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, unanticipated changes in market demand for products based on a specific technology, particularly lower than anticipated, or delays in, demand for IP-optimized networking solutions, particularly long-haul and metro optical networking solutions, or 3G wireless networks, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition if we fail to respond to those changes in a timely and effective manner. 31 Our performance may be materially and adversely affected if our expectations regarding market demand for particular products prove to be wrong. We expect that data communications traffic will grow at a faster rate than the growth expected for voice traffic and that the use of the Internet will continue to increase. We expect the growth of data traffic and the use of the Internet will significantly impact traditional voice networks, both wireline and wireless. We believe that this will create market discontinuities, which will make traditional voice network products and services less effective as they were not designed for data traffic. We believe that these market discontinuities in turn will lead to the convergence of data and voice through upgrades of traditional voice networks to transport large volumes of data traffic or through the construction of new networks designed to transport both voice and data traffic. Either approach would require significant capital expenditures by service providers. We also believe that such developments will increase the demand for IP-optimized networking solutions, and 3G wireless networks. We cannot be sure what the rate of this convergence of voice and data networks will be, due to the dynamic and rapidly evolving nature of the communications business, the technology involved and the availability of capital. Consequently, market discontinuities may occur and the demand for IP-optimized networking solutions or 3G wireless networks may be lower than expected. Alternatively, the pace of that development may be slower than currently anticipated. On a regional basis, growth of our revenues from sales of our networking solutions in developing countries, such as China and India, may be less than we anticipate if current customer orders are not indicative of future sales, strong growth in our UMTS technology does not occur, we are unable to establish strategic alliances in key markets or developing countries experience slower growth or fewer deployments of VoIP and wireless data networks than we anticipate. The market may also develop in an unforeseen direction. Certain events, including the commercial availability and actual implementation of new technologies, including 3G wireless networks, or the evolution of other technologies, may occur, which would affect the extent or timing of anticipated market demand, or increase demand for products based on other technologies, or reduce the demand for IP-optimized networking solutions or 3G wireless networks. Any such change in demand may reduce purchases of our networking solutions by our customers, require increased expenditures to develop and market different technologies, or provide market opportunities for our competitors. Our performance may also be materially and adversely affected by a lack of growth in the rate of data traffic, a reduction in the use of the Internet or a reduction in the demand for IP-optimized networking solutions or 3G wireless networks in the future, and slower than anticipated revenue growth from our network solutions such as Wireless Local Area Networks and carrier routing. We also cannot be sure that the metro optical portion of our Carrier Packet Networks business will continue to represent as large of a percentage of our overall Carrier Packet Networks revenues as we expect, or that our current growth in carrier VoIP will continue, or that sales of our traditional circuit switching solutions will not decline more rapidly than we anticipate, or that the rate of decline will not continue to exceed the rate of growth of our next generation solutions, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We face certain barriers in our efforts to expand internationally. We intend to continue to pursue international and emerging market growth opportunities. In many international markets, long-standing relationships between potential customers and their local suppliers and protective regulations, including local content requirements and type approvals, create barriers to entry. In addition, pursuing international opportunities may require significant investments for an extended period before returns on such investments, if any, are realized and such investments may result in expenses growing at a faster rate than revenues. Furthermore, those projects and investments could be adversely affected by: • reversals or delays in the opening of foreign markets to new competitors; • trade protection measures; • exchange controls; • currency fluctuations; • investment policies; • restrictions on repatriation of cash; • nationalization or regulation of local industry; • economic, social and political risks; • taxation; • interest rates; • challenges in staffing and managing international opportunities; • acts of war or terrorism; 32 • natural disasters; and • other factors, depending on the country involved. Difficulties in foreign financial markets and economies and of foreign financial institutions, particularly in emerging markets, could adversely affect demand from customers in the affected countries. An inability to maintain or expand our business in international and emerging markets while balancing the higher operational and financial risks associated with these markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our gross margins may decline, which would reduce our operating results and could contribute to volatility in the market price of our publicly traded securities. Our gross margins may be negatively affected as a result of a number of factors, including: • increased price competition in the networking industry, particularly from low cost competitors; • increased industry consolidation and rationalization among our customers, which may lead to decreased demand for, and downward pricing pressure on the prices of, our products; • changes in product and geographic mix; • customer and contract settlement costs; • higher product, material or labor costs; • increased inventory provisions, obsolescence charges or contract and customer settlement costs; • loss of cost savings on future inventory purchases as a result of higher inventory levels; • increased warranty costs; • introduction of new products and costs of entering new markets; • customer requirements for increased level of service; • changes in distribution channels; • excess capacity or excess fixed assets; • accruals for employee incentive bonuses; • costs relating to our restatements, including the possibility of substantial fines, settlements and/or damages or other penalties and/or remedial actions; and • further restructuring costs. Lower than expected gross margins would negatively affect our operating results and could contribute to volatility in the market price of our publicly traded securities. Negative developments associated with our supply contracts and contract manufacturing agreements including as a result of using a sole supplier for key optical networking solutions components may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and supply relationships. Some of our contracts with customers involve new technologies currently being developed or that we have not yet commercially deployed or that require us to build networks. Some of these contracts contain delivery and installation timetables, performance criteria and other contractual obligations which, if not met, could result in our having to pay substantial penalties or liquidated damages and/or the termination of the contract. Our ability to meet these contractual obligations is, in part, dependent on us obtaining timely and adequate component parts and products from supply contracts and contract manufacturers. Unexpected developments in these supply contracts could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, cash flows and relationships with our customers. In particular, we currently rely on a sole supplier, Bookham, Inc. or Bookham, for key optical networking solutions components, and our supply of such components used in our solutions could be materially adversely affected by adverse developments in that supply arrangement with that supplier. In December 2004, we entered into a restructuring agreement with Bookham. In February 2005, we agreed to waive for a period of time Bookham’s obligation to maintain a minimum cash balance under certain secured and unsecured notes and in May 2005 we agreed to adjust the prepayment provisions under these notes, received additional collateral for these notes and amended our supply agreement with Bookham to provide Bookham with financial flexibility to continue the supply of optical networking solutions components. In January 2006, we amended the supply agreement to extend certain purchase commitments and agreed to purchase a minimum of $72 million in products from Bookham in 2006. The inability of this supplier to meet its contractual obligations under our supply arrangements and our inability to make alternative arrangements could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, cash flows and relationships with our customers. For more information, see “Developments in 2005 and 2006 — Optical Components Operations” in the “MD&A” section of this report. As part of the transformation of our supply chain from a vertically integrated manufacturing model to a virtually integrated model, we are in the process of finalizing the outsourcing of substantially all of our manufacturing capacity to 33 contract manufacturers, including an agreement with Flextronics. Commencing in the fourth quarter of 2004 and throughout 2005, we completed the transfer to Flextronics of certain of our optical design activities in Ottawa, Canada and Monkstown, Northern Ireland and our manufacturing activities in Montreal, Canada and Chateaudun, France. In order to allow completion of several major information systems changes that are expected to simplify and improve the quality of operations during the transaction, we now expect to transfer the remaining manufacturing operations in Calgary, Canada to Flextronics by the end of the second quarter of 2006. We and Flextronics have agreed that we will retain our Monkstown manufacturing operations and establish a regional supply chain center to lead our EMEA supply chain operations. Flextronics also has the ability in certain cases to exercise rights to sell back to us certain inventory and equipment after the expiration of a specified period (of up to fifteen months) following each respective closing date. We do not expect such rights to be exercised with respect to any material amount of inventory and/or equipment. Upon the completion of the divestiture, a significant portion of our supply chain will be concentrated with Flextronics. There is no assurance that we will be able to complete, on a timely basis or otherwise, the remaining portion of the transaction with Flextronics, which could materially and negatively impact our cash flows and operating results. For more information, see “Developments in 2005 and 2006 — Evolution of Our Supply Chain Strategy” in the “MD&A” section of this report. We work closely with our suppliers and contract manufacturers to address quality issues and to meet increases in customer demand, when needed, and we also manage our internal manufacturing capacity, quality, and inventory levels as required. However, we may encounter shortages or interruptions in the supply of quality components and/or products in the future. In addition, our component suppliers and contract manufacturers have experienced, and may continue to experience, a consolidation in the industry and financial difficulties, both of which may result in fewer sources of components or products and greater exposure to the financial stability of our suppliers. A reduction or interruption in component supply or external manufacturing capacity, a significant increase in the price of one or more components, or excessive inventory levels could materially and negatively affect our gross margins and our operating results and could materially damage customer relationships. Many of our current and planned products are highly complex and may contain defects or errors that are detected only after deployment in telecommunications networks, which could harm our reputation and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our products are highly complex, and some of them can be fully tested only when deployed in telecommunications networks or with other equipment. From time to time, our products have contained undetected defects, errors or failures. The occurrence of any defects, errors or failures could result in cancellation of orders, product returns, diversion of our resources, legal actions by our customers or our customers’ end users and other losses to us or to our customers or end users. We record provisions for estimated costs related to warranties given to customers on our products to cover defects. Our estimated warranty obligation is based upon warranty terms, ongoing product failure rates, historical material replacement costs and the associated labor to correct the product defect. If actual product failure rates, material replacement costs, service or labor costs differ from our estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty provision would be required. If we experience an increase in warranty claims compared with our historical experience, or if the costs of servicing warranty claims is greater than the expectations on which the accrual is based, our gross margin could be negatively affected. Any of these occurrences could also result in the loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products and loss of sales, which would harm our business and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. For more information on our provisions for product warranties, see “Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates — Provisions for Product Warranties” in the “MD&A” section of this report. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. As an increasing proportion of our business may be denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our primary currency exposures are to Canadian dollars, British pounds and the euro. These exposures may change over time as we change the geographic mix of our global business and as our business practices evolve. For instance, if we increase our presence in emerging markets, we may see an increase in our exposure to emerging market currencies, for example, the Indian rupee. These currencies may be affected by internal factors and external developments in other countries. Also, our ability to enter into normal course derivative or hedging transactions in the future may be impacted by our current credit condition. We cannot predict whether foreign exchange losses will be incurred in the future, and significant foreign exchange rate fluctuations may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 34 We continue to restructure and transform our business to respond to industry and market conditions and to address our biggest operational and strategic challenges. The assumptions underlying these efforts may prove to be inaccurate, or we may fail to achieve the expected benefits from these efforts, and we may have to restructure or transform our business again in the future. We continue to restructure and transform our business to realign resources and achieve desired cost savings in an increasingly competitive market. We have based our restructuring efforts on certain assumptions regarding the cost structure of our business. Our current assumptions may or may not be correct and as a result, we may determine that further restructuring or business transformation in the future will be needed. Our restructuring efforts and business transformation may not be sufficient for us to achieve improved results and meet the changes in industry and market conditions, including increased competition. In particular, we face increased competition from low cost competitors such as Huawei and ZTE Corporation. We must manage the potentially higher growth areas of our business, which encompass higher operational and financial risks, as well as the non-core areas, in order for us to achieve improved results. We have made, and will continue to make, judgments as to whether we should further reduce our workforce or exit, or dispose of, certain businesses. These workforce reductions may impair our ability to achieve our current or future business objectives. Costs incurred in connection with restructuring efforts may be higher than estimated. Any decision by management to further limit investment or exit, or dispose of, businesses may result in the recording of additional charges. As a result, the costs actually incurred in connection with the restructuring efforts may be higher than originally planned and may not lead to the anticipated cost savings and/or improved results. As part of our review of restructured businesses, we look at the recoverability of their tangible and intangible assets. Future market conditions may trigger further write-downs of these assets due to uncertainties in: • the estimates and assumptions used in asset valuations, which are based on our forecasts of future business performance; and • accounting estimates related to the useful life and recoverability of the net book value of these assets, including inventory, goodwill, net deferred taxes and other intangible assets. We will continue to review our restructuring work plan based on our ongoing assessment of the industry and the business environment. We have also begun to focus on recent business transformation objectives of business simplification (including pursuing market opportunities where we can achieve a leadership position and at least a 20 percent market share), quality improvement (including implementation of a Six Sigma quality program), reduced direct and indirect costs (including improved R&D prioritization), and new revenue growth (including increased sales and improved pricing effectiveness). There is no guarantee that these strategic initiatives will improve our overall market competitiveness and profitability or that they can be achieved with our existing financial and managerial resources. If market conditions deteriorate or future results of operations are less than expected, an additional valuation allowance may be required for all or a portion of our deferred tax assets. We currently have deferred tax assets, which may be used to reduce taxable income in the future. We assess the realization of these deferred tax assets quarterly, and if we determine that it is more likely than not that some portion of these assets will not be realized, an income tax valuation allowance is recorded. If market conditions deteriorate or future results of operations are less than expected, future assessments may result in a determination that it is more likely than not that some or all of our net deferred tax assets are not realizable. As a result, we may need to establish an additional valuation allowance for all or a portion of our net deferred tax assets, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights, or if we are subject to adverse judgments or settlements arising out of disputes regarding intellectual property rights, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Our industry is subject to uncertainty over adoption of industry standards and protection of intellectual property rights. Our success is dependent on our proprietary technology, for the protection of which we rely on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws. Our business is global and the level of protection of our proprietary technology provided by those laws varies by jurisdiction. Our issued patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and our rights under issued patents may not provide us with competitive advantages. Patents may not be issued from pending applications, and claims in patents issued in the future may not be sufficiently broad to protect our proprietary technology. In addition, claims of intellectual property infringement or trade secret misappropriation may be asserted against us or our customers in connection with their use of our products and the outcome of any of those claims may be 35 uncertain. An unfavorable outcome in such a claim could require us to cease offering for sale the products that are the subject of such a claim, pay substantial monetary damages to a third party and/or make ongoing royalty payments to a third party. In addition, any defense of claims of intellectual property infringement or trade secret misappropriation may require extensive participation by senior management and/or other key employees and may reduce their time and ability to focus on other aspects of our business. A failure by us to react to changing industry standards, the lack of broadly-accepted industry standards, successful claims of intellectual property infringement or other intellectual property claims against us or our customers, or a failure by us to protect our proprietary technology could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if others infringe on our intellectual property rights, we may not be able to successfully contest such challenges. Changes in regulation of the Internet and/or other aspects of the industry may affect the manner in which we conduct our business and may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Investment decisions of our customers could be affected by regulation of the Internet or other aspects of the industry in any country where we operate. We could also be materially and adversely affected by an increase in competition among equipment suppliers or by reduced capital spending by our customers, as a result of a change in the regulation of the industry. If a jurisdiction in which we operate adopts measures which affect the regulation of the Internet and/or other aspects of the industry, we could experience both decreased demand for our products and increased costs of selling such products. Changes in laws or regulations governing the Internet, Internet commerce and/or other aspects of the industry could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In the U.S., on February 20, 2003, the FCC announced a decision in its triennial review proceeding of the agency’s rules regarding unbundled network elements, or UNE. The text of the FCC’s order and reasons for the decision were released on August 21, 2003. The uncertainty surrounding the impact of the FCC’s decision, judicial review of the decision, the adoption of interim rules, and the subsequent adoption of new unbundling rules with an effective date of March 11, 2005 is affecting, and may continue to affect, the decisions of certain of our U.S.-based service provider customers regarding investment in their telecommunications infrastructure. These UNE rules and/or material changes in other country-specific telecommunications or other regulations may affect capital spending by certain of our service provider customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In Europe, we are subject to new product content laws and product takeback and recycling requirements that will require full compliance commencing in July 2006. As a result of these laws and requirements, we will incur additional compliance costs. Although compliance costs relating to environmental matters have not resulted in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition in the past, they may result in a material adverse effect in the future. We are actively working on compliance plans and risk mitigation strategies relating to the new laws and requirements. We intend to manufacture products that are compliant with all applicable legislation and meet our quality and reliability requirements. Although we are working with our strategic suppliers in this regard, it is possible that some of our products may not be compliant by the legislated compliance date. In such event, we expect that we will have the ability to rely on available exemptions under the new legislation for most of such products and currently do not expect significant disruption to the distribution of such products. We have made, and may continue to make, strategic acquisitions. If we are not successful in operating or integrating these acquisitions, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. From time to time, we acquire companies that we believe would enhance the expansion of our business and products. We may make selective opportunistic acquisitions of companies or businesses with resources and product or service offerings capable of providing us with additional product and/or market strengths. For example, in June 2005, we acquired PEC and in February 2006, we acquired Tasman Networks. Acquisitions involve significant risks and uncertainties, including: • the industry may develop in a different direction than anticipated and the technologies we acquire may not prove to be those we need or the business model of acquired companies may become obsolete; • the future valuations of acquired businesses may decrease from the market price we paid for these acquisitions; • the revenues of acquired businesses may not offset increased operating expenses associated with these acquisitions; • potential difficulties in completing in-process research and development projects and delivering high quality products to our customers; 36 • potential difficulties in integrating new products, software, internal controls, businesses and operations in an effective and timely manner or at all; • our customers or customers of the acquired businesses may defer purchase decisions as they evaluate the impact of the acquisitions on our future product strategy; • potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses; • diversion of the attention of our senior management from the operation of our daily business; • entering new markets in which we have limited experience and where competitors may have a stronger market presence; • the potential adverse effect on our cash position as a result of all or a portion of an acquisition purchase price being paid in cash; • potential issuance of equity or equity related securities as a result of all or a portion of an acquisition purchase price being paid with such equity or equity related securities, which could result in the significant dilution of existing equity positions; and • potential assumption of liabilities. Our inability to successfully operate and integrate newly acquired businesses appropriately, effectively and in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our ability to take advantage of further growth in demand for IP-optimized network solutions and other advances in technology, as well as on our revenues, gross margins and expenses. Acquisitions are inherently risky, and no assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful and will not materially adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions could materially harm our business and operating results. Our business may suffer if our strategic alliances are not consummated or are not successful. We have announced a number of strategic alliances with suppliers, developers and members in our industry to facilitate product compatibility, encourage adoption of industry standards or to offer complementary product or service offerings to meet customer needs, including our joint venture with LG Electronics and our proposed joint venture with Huawei. Our business may be adversely affected if we are not able to reach definite agreements with respect to previously announced strategic alliances in a timely manner or at all. Furthermore, we believe that cooperation between multiple vendors is critical to the success of our communications solutions for both service providers and enterprises. In some cases, the companies with which we have strategic alliances also compete against us in some of our business areas. If a member of a strategic alliance fails to perform its obligations, if the relationship fails to develop as expected or if the relationship is terminated, we could experience delays in product availability or impairment of our relationships with our customers. Our business may also be adversely affected if our choice of strategic alliance collaborators does not enable us to leverage our existing and future product and service offerings in order to capitalize on expected future market trends (such as convergence in the enterprise market). If we fail to adequately evolve our financial and managerial control and reporting systems and processes, our ability to manage and grow our business will be negatively affected. Our ability to successfully offer our products and implement our business plan in a rapidly evolving market depends upon an effective planning and management process. We will need to continue to improve our financial and managerial control and our reporting systems and procedures through initiatives such as our global finance transformation project, which includes the global implementation of SAP, in order to manage our business more effectively in the future. If we fail to continue to implement improved systems and processes, our ability to manage our business and results of operation could be adversely affected. Our risk management strategy may be not effective or not commensurate to the risks we are facing. We maintain global blanket policies of insurance of the types and in the amounts of comparable companies of the same size and in the same industry. We limit our exposure to risk through a combination of levels of self-insurance and the purchase of various insurance coverages. We have retained certain self-insurance risks with respect to certain employee benefit programs such as worker’s compensation, group health insurance, life insurance and other types of insurance. Our insurance program is based on various lines and limits of coverage that provides what we think are appropriate levels of retained and insured risks. Insurance is arranged with reliable, financially stable insurance companies as rated by A. M. Best Company, Inc. We combine comprehensive risk management programs and the active management of claims handling and litigation processes by using internal professionals and external technical expertise to manage the risk we retain. 37 If this risk management strategy is not effective or is not commensurate to the risks we are facing, these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Risks Relating to Our Liquidity, Financing Arrangements and Capital Cash flow fluctuations may affect our ability to fund our working capital requirements or achieve our business objectives in a timely manner. Additional sources of funds may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. Our working capital requirements and cash flows historically have been, and are expected to continue to be, subject to quarterly and yearly fluctuations, depending on such factors as timing and size of capital expenditures, levels of sales, timing of deliveries and collection of receivables, inventory levels, customer payment terms, customer financing obligations and supplier terms and conditions. As of December 31, 2005, our primary source of liquidity was cash and we expect this to continue throughout 2006. Based on past performance and current expectations we do not expect our operations to generate significant cash flow in 2006. In addition, in 2006, we expect our continued transfer of certain manufacturing assets to Flextronics, and the sale of other non-core assets to continue to be a source of cash at similar levels as 2005 amounts. We estimate that as our cash will be sufficient to fund the changes to our business model in accordance with our strategic plan (see “Business Overview — Our Strategy and Outlook” in the MD&A section of this report), fund our investments and meet our customer commitments for at least the next twelve month period commencing December 31, 2005, including cash expenditures outlined under “Liquidity and Capital Resources — Future Uses of Liquidity” in the “MD&A” section of this report. In making this estimate, we have not assumed the need to make any payments in respect of fines or other penalties or judgments or settlements in connection with our pending civil litigation not encompassed by the Proposed Class Action Settlement or regulatory or criminal investigations related to the restatements, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, other than anticipated professional fees and expenses. As more fully discussed under “Material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements, including the Proposed Class Action Settlement, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, which could be very significant,” these payments could materially and adversely affect our cash position, our available cash and cash flow from operations may not be sufficient to pay them, and additional sources of funding may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We and NNI agreed to a demand right exercisable at any time after May 31, 2006 pursuant to which we will be required to take all reasonable actions to issue senior unsecured debt securities in the capital markets to repay the 2006 Credit Facility. There can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance the 2006 Credit Facility by issuing unsecured debt securities. Any inability to refinance the 2006 Credit Facility would materially adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, we continue to monitor the capital markets for opportunities to refinance upcoming debt maturities, as more fully discussed under “Our high level of debt could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.” If we are unable to refinance our existing debt that is coming due in 2007, should we decide to do so, the amount of cash available to finance our operations and other business activities and our ability to pay any judgments, fines, penalties or settlements, if any, would be significantly reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Other factors, discussed more fully elsewhere in this section, may also result in our net cash requirements exceeding our current expectations and negatively affect the amount of cash available to finance our operations and other business activities, including: • a greater than expected slowdown in capital spending by service providers and other customers or other changes to our business model could result in materially lower revenues and cash flows; • costs incurred in connection with restructuring efforts may be higher than originally planned and may not lead to the anticipated cost savings; • changes in market demand for networking products, which may require increased expenditures to develop and market different technologies; • we may need to make larger contributions to our defined benefit plans in North America and the United Kingdom, or U.K., and retirement plans in other countries; • an increased portion of our cash and cash equivalents may be restricted as cash collateral for customer performance bonds and contracts if the industry or our current condition deteriorates; and • an inability of our subsidiaries to provide us with funding in sufficient amounts could adversely affect our ability to meet our obligations. We may seek additional funds from liquidity-generating transactions and other sources of external financing (which may include a variety of debt, convertible debt and/or equity financings), but these financings may not be available to us on 38 acceptable terms or at all. In addition, we may not continue to have access to the EDC Support Facility when and as needed. Our inability to manage cash flow fluctuations resulting from the above factors and the potential reduction, expiry or termination of the EDC Support Facility could have a material adverse effect on our ability to fund our working capital requirements from operating cash flows and other sources of liquidity or to achieve our business objectives in a timely manner. These circumstances could, for example: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our outstanding debt and other obligations and to pay any judgments, fines, penalties or settlements in connection with our pending civil litigation and investigations; • require us to delay or reduce capital expenditures or the introduction of new products, sell assets and/or forego business opportunities such as acquisitions, R&D projects or product design enhancements; • increase our vulnerability to economic downturns, adverse industry conditions and adverse developments in our business, and limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to such changes; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have greater liquidity. Our high level of debt could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. In order to finance our business, we have incurred significant levels of debt. As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately $3.9 billion of debt reflected on our consolidated balance sheet, of which $3.6 billion was notes outstanding under our public debt indentures and $162 million was outstanding under the EDC Support Facility. In February 2006, we borrowed $1.3 billion under the 2006 Credit Facility and repaid $1.275 billion of notes issued under our public debt indentures. In the future, we may need to obtain additional sources of funding, which may include debt or convertible debt financing. A high level of debt, arduous or restrictive terms and conditions related to accessing certain sources of funding, or any significant reduction in, or access to, the EDC Support Facility, could materially and adversely affect our ability to fund the operations of our business. Other effects of our high degree of leverage include the following: • it could be more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our outstanding debt and other obligations; • we may have difficulty borrowing money in the future or accessing other sources of funding; • we may have difficulty refinancing our existing debt, should we decide to do so, including the $150 million of outstanding 7.40% Notes due June 15, 2006 issued by an indirect wholly owned finance subsidiary of NNL and the $1.3 billion outstanding under the 2006 Credit Facility due in February 2007; • we may need to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash and cash flow from operations to debt payments, thereby significantly reducing the availability of our cash and cash flow from operations for other purposes, including payments of judgments, settlements, fines or other penalties and our operational needs (for example, in order to meet our debt service obligations, we may be required to delay or reduce capital expenditures or the introduction of new products, sell assets and/or forego business opportunities such as acquisitions, R&D projects or product design enhancements); • increase our vulnerability to economic downturns, adverse industry conditions and adverse developments in our business, and limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to such changes; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt. Covenants under the 2006 Credit Facility and the EDC Support Facility impose operating and financial restrictions on us, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities. The agreements governing our credit facilities contain covenants that: • limit our ability to create liens on our assets and the assets of substantially all of our subsidiaries in excess of certain baskets and permitted amounts; • limit our ability and the ability of substantially all of our subsidiaries to merge, consolidate, amalgamate with another person; • require us to maintain a minimum level of Adjusted EBITDA beginning with the twelve-month period ending March 31, 2006 (for more information on Adjusted EBITDA, see “Liquidity an Capital Resources — Future Sources of Liquidity — Credit facilities” in the “MD&A” section of this report); • require us to maintain at least $1 billion of unrestricted cash at all times; and • restrict the ability of our subsidiaries to incur funded debt in excess of certain amounts without guaranteeing NNL’s obligations under the EDC Support Facility. 39 In addition, we may in the future incur and guarantee debt with more restrictive covenants (including maintenance financial tests) that impose significant operating and financial restrictions, including restrictions on our ability to engage in other business activities that may be in our best long-term interests. Failure to comply with the covenants under the credit facilities could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Certain provisions in the indentures governing certain of our public debt issues, together with the provisions of the 2006 Credit Facility, severely limit our ability to incur certain types of additional secured debt while the secured loans under the 2006 Credit Facility are outstanding. Provisions in the indentures governing certain of our public debt issues require us to grant security to the holders of such debt on an equal and ratable basis with any new secured debt in excess of certain amounts. Because we have granted security to secure a portion of the 2006 Credit Facility without equally and ratably securing all of our outstanding public debt securities, we are currently severely limited in our ability to incur certain types of additional secured debt. Our failure to provide security in accordance with the terms of these indentures upon our incurrence of certain types of additional secured debt would constitute events of default under such indentures, the 2006 Credit Facility and the EDC Support Facility, which could have a significant impact on our liquidity and could adversely affect our ability to conduct business or access the capital markets and could adversely impact our credit ratings. An increased portion of our cash and cash equivalents may be restricted as cash collateral if we are unable to secure alternative support for certain obligations arising out of our normal course business activities. The EDC Support Facility may not provide all the support we require for certain of our obligations arising out of our normal course of business activities. As of December 31, 2005, there was approximately $162 million of outstanding support utilized under the EDC Support Facility, approximately $142 million of which was outstanding under the small bond sub-facility. In addition, bid and performance related bonds with terms that extend beyond December 31, 2007, which, absent any early termination of the EDC Support Facility, is the expiry date of this facility, are currently not eligible for the support provided by the EDC Support Facility. Given that the EDC Support Facility is used to support bid and performance bonds with varying terms, including those with at least 365 days, we may need to increase our use of cash collateral to support these obligations beginning on January 1, 2007 absent a further extension of the facility. Unless EDC agrees to extend the facility or agrees to provide support outside the scope of the facility, we may be required to provide cash collateral to support these obligations. We cannot provide any assurance that we will reach an agreement with EDC on these matters. EDC may also suspend its obligation to issue NNL any additional support if events occur that have a material adverse effect on NNL’s business, financial position or results of operations. If we do not have access to sufficient support under the EDC Support Facility, and if we are unable to secure alternative support, an increased portion of our cash and cash equivalents may be restricted as cash collateral, which could adversely affect our ability to fund some of our normal course business activities, capital expenditures, R&D projects and our ability to borrow in the future. An inability of our subsidiaries to provide us with funding in sufficient amounts could adversely affect our ability to meet our obligations. We may at times depend primarily on loans, dividends or other forms of financing from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations to pay interest and principal on outstanding public debt and to pay corporate expenses. If our subsidiaries are unable to pay dividends or provide us with loans or other forms of financing in sufficient amounts, or if there are any restrictions on the transfer of cash between us and our subsidiaries, including commercial limitations on transfers of cash pursuant to our joint ventures commitments, our liquidity and our ability to meet our obligations could be adversely affected. We may need to make larger contributions to our defined benefit plans in the future. We currently maintain various defined benefit plans in North America and the U.K. which cover various categories of employees and retirees, which represent our major retirement plans. In addition, we have smaller retirement plans in other countries. Our obligations to make contributions to fund benefit obligations under these plans are based on actuarial valuations, which themselves are based on certain assumptions about the long-term operation of the plans, including employee turnover and retirement rates, the performance of the financial markets and interest rates. If experience differs from the assumptions, the amounts we are obligated to contribute to the plans may increase. In particular, the 40 performance of the financial markets is difficult to predict, particularly in periods of high volatility in the equity markets. If the financial markets perform lower than the assumptions, we may have to make larger contributions in the future than we would otherwise have to make and expenses related to defined benefit plans could increase. Similarly, changes in interest rates can impact our contribution requirements. In a low interest rate environment, the likelihood of required contributions in the future increases. If interest rates are lower in the future than we assume they will be, then we would probably be required to make larger contributions than we would otherwise have to make. In addition, we are currently in discussions with the Trustee of our pension plan in the U.K. to establish a long-term funding agreement, which would increase the level of contributions in 2006 and in subsequent years. Industry concerns could continue and increase our exposure to our customers’ credit risk and the risk that our customers will not be able to fulfill their payment obligations to us under customer financing arrangements. The competitive environment in which we operate has required us in the past to provide significant amounts of medium-term and long-term customer financing. Customer financing arrangements may include financing in connection with the sale of our products and services, funding for certain non-product and service costs associated with network installation and integration of our products and services, financing for working capital and equity financing. While we have significantly reduced our customer financing exposure, we expect we may continue in the future to provide customer financing to customers in areas that are strategic to our core business activity. We expect to continue to hold most current and future customer financing obligations for longer periods prior to any possible placement with third-party lenders, due to, among other factors, recent economic uncertainty in various countries, adverse capital market conditions, our current credit condition, adverse changes in the credit quality of our customers and reduced demand for telecommunications financing in capital and bank markets. In addition, risks generally associated with customer financing, including the risks associated with new technologies, new network construction, market demand and competition, customer business plan viability and funding risks, may require us to hold certain customer financing obligations over a longer term. We may not be able to place any of our current or future customer financing obligations with third-party lenders on acceptable terms. From time to time, certain of our customers may experience financial difficulties and fail to meet their financial obligations. When this occurs, we may incur charges for provisions related to certain trade and customer financing receivables. Any future financial difficulties experienced by any of our customers could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and operating results. Our stock price has historically been volatile and further declines in the market price of our publicly traded securities may negatively impact our ability to make future acquisitions, raise capital, issue debt and retain employees. Our publicly traded securities have experienced, and may continue to experience, substantial price volatility, including considerable decreases, particularly as a result of variations between our actual or anticipated financial results and the published expectations of analysts and as a result of announcements by our competitors and us, including our announcements related to our multiple restatements, the Independent Review, the Revenue Independent Review, our management changes, the regulatory and criminal investigations, the Proposed Class Action Settlement, the other civil litigation proceedings and related matters. The proposed issuance of 628,667,750 Nortel Networks Corporation common shares (representing 14.5% of our equity as of February 7, 2006) under the Proposed Class Action Settlement, if finalized and approved, will result in dilution of existing equity positions and may increase volatility in the market price of Nortel Networks Corporation common shares or our other publicly traded securities. Our credit quality, any equity or equity related offerings, operating results and prospects, restatements of previously issued financial statements, any exclusion of our publicly traded securities from any widely followed stock market indices, among other factors, will also affect the market price of our publicly traded securities. The stock markets have experienced extreme price fluctuations that have affected the market price and trading volumes of many technology and telecommunications companies in particular, with potential consequential negative effects on the trading of securities of those companies. A major decline in the capital markets generally, or an adjustment in the market price or trading volumes of our publicly traded securities, may negatively impact our ability to raise capital, issue debt, secure customer business, retain employees or make future acquisitions. These factors, as well as general economic and geopolitical conditions, and continued negative events within the technology sector, may in turn have a material adverse effect on the market price of our publicly traded securities. 41 The proposed share consolidation could result in a lower total market capitalization or adversely affect the liquidity of our common shares. A consolidation could make it more difficult or more expensive for shareholders to sell their shares. Numerous factors and contingencies could affect our share price following a share consolidation, including the status of the market for the common shares at the time, our reported results of operations in future periods, and general economic, geopolitical, stock market and industry conditions. Accordingly, the market price of our common shares may not be sustainable at the direct arithmetic result of the consolidation, and may be lower. If the market price of our common shares is lower than it was before the consolidation, our total market capitalization (the aggregate value of all common shares at the then market price) after the consolidation may be lower than before the consolidation. While a higher share price may help generate investor interest in Nortel Networks Corporation common shares, the proposed consolidation may not result in a per share market price that will attract institutional investors or investment funds and such share price may not satisfy the investing guidelines of institutional investors or investment funds. As a result, the trading liquidity of NNC’s common shares may not necessarily improve. If the consolidation is implemented and the market price of NNC’s common shares declines, the percentage decline may be greater than would occur in the absence of the consolidation. The market price of NNC’s common shares will, however, also be based on our performance and other factors, which are unrelated to the number of common shares outstanding. Furthermore, the liquidity of NNC’s common shares could be adversely affected by the reduced number of common shares that would be outstanding after the consolidation. A consolidation may result in some shareholders owning “odd lots” of less than 100 common shares of NNC on a post-consolidation basis. Odd lots may be more difficult to sell, or require greater transaction costs per share to sell, than shares in “board lots” of even multiples of 100 shares. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 