ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below with respect to an investment in our shares. If any of the following risks are actually realized, our business, financial condition, operating results or cash provided by operations could be materially harmed. As a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you might lose all or part of your investment. When evaluating an investment in our common stock, you should also refer to the other information in this report, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes. Risks Relating to Our Business If the federal No Child Left Behind Act is materially changed or repealed, or found unconstitutional, our revenue and profitability would be materially adversely affected. The market for supplemental educational materials has been significantly impacted by the revised Elementary and Secondary Education Act, also known as the “No Child Left Behind Act” which was enacted in 2002. A substantial portion of our revenue growth since 2002 is attributable to the sale of proprietary materials that we developed based on standards adopted by states in response to this legislation. The NCLB and its implementation have been criticized by representatives of states and schools; including complaints that federal funding is not sufficient to carry out all aspects of the NCLB. If the legislation is repealed, found to be unconstitutional, or is amended in a manner that results in reduced state participation; our revenue and profitability would be materially adversely affected. Legislation reducing government funding to our customers, a delay in government appropriations, or a change in federally mandated or state standards-based testing legislation would have a material adverse effect on our revenue. A significant portion of our total net revenue is derived from customers that are primarily dependent on various sources of government funding, including funding from federal, state, and local governments. The No Child Left Behind Act established requirements for states, schools, and school districts to test students and ensure that all teachers are highly qualified, but representatives of states and schools have complained that federal funding is not sufficient to carry out all aspects of the NCLB. If adequate funding is not provided by federal, state or local governments, the demand for our products would be materially adversely affected. The government appropriations process is often slow, unpredictable, and subject to factors outside our control. Many of our customers may use the same sources of funding. Accordingly, any substantial reduction or delay in governmental funding earmarked for educational materials would have a material adverse effect on our revenue. Fluctuations in our quarterly results may adversely affect our stock price. Our revenue and profitability fluctuate significantly during the fiscal year as a result of many factors, including the capital and operating spending patterns of our customers, the size, timing, and product mix of orders, and the amount and timing of our investment in developing and introducing additional proprietary products. We sell our products directly to public and private schools and school districts. Our revenue is affected by both the financial condition and the management decisions of our customers and general economic conditions. These seasonal fluctuations in our quarterly results may negatively affect our stock price. Loss of either of our exclusive distributorship contracts with major college publishers could have a material adverse effect on our business or operating results. We have the exclusive U.S. high school distribution rights for college textbooks and related instruction materials published by two major college publishers. The exclusive distribution agreements cover each publisher’s college products, and certain trade and professional products. The expiration or the termination of either of these agreements by the publisher, or the inability of either publisher to continue doing business, could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and net income. One of the agreements will expire in December 2012 and the other agreement will expire in September 2008. If we are unable to successfully renew our exclusive distributorship contracts with similar terms, we may experience a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. 8 Table of Contents Misuse, misappropriation, or other loss of our proprietary rights could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our success depends in part on our intellectual property rights in the products that we develop. We rely primarily on a combination of registered and common law copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, customer licensing agreements, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements and other methods to protect our proprietary rights. We have a federal trademark registration for many of our trademarks including Measuring Up®, Measuring Up e-Path®, and Personal Prescriptive Path®. We have applied for numerous other federal trademark registrations. We have not applied for trademark registration at the state level, but have instead relied on our federal registration and state common law rights to protect our proprietary information. In addition, we own or license all copyrights in our proprietary educational materials. Although we believe we have adequately protected our copyrights, defending or enforcing our intellectual property rights could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could materially affect our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. The loss of our copyrights or failure of copyright protection could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We do not include any mechanisms in our materials or products to prevent or inhibit unauthorized copying. We have no knowledge of the unauthorized copying of our books or products. However, if such copying or misuse were to occur to any substantial degree, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, our U.S. registrations may not be enforceable or effective in protecting our trademarks and copyrights, especially outside of the U.S. Although we believe our materials and products have been independently developed and do not infringe on the rights of others, third parties may assert infringement claims against us in the future. We may be required to modify our materials, products or technologies or obtain a license to permit our continued use of those rights. We may not be able to do so in a timely manner or upon reasonable terms and conditions. Failure to do so could harm our business and operating results. Failure to retain our key executives or attract and retain qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. The loss of one or more of our executive officers or other key personnel could inhibit the development of our business and, accordingly, harm our business and operating results. Qualified personnel are in great demand in our industry. Successful execution of our business strategy depends on our ability to continue to develop and produce high quality proprietary supplemental educational materials. Our future success depends in large part on the continued service of our key editorial, operations, marketing and sales personnel and on our ability to continue to attract, motivate and retain highly qualified employees. Our key employees may terminate their employment with us at any time, subject to, in most cases, non-competition and non-solicitation covenants for a period of one year after termination of employment. There is competition within the industry for such employees and the process of locating key technical and management personnel with suitable skills may be difficult. Competition in our industry is intense and could adversely affect our performance. Our industry is intensely competitive, rapidly evolving, and subject to technological change. Demand for particular books, products and technology may be adversely affected by the increasing number of competitive products from which a prospective customer may choose. We compete primarily against other organizations offering educational books, software and related materials. Our competitors include several large companies with substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources than ours. We compete with companies providing single-title retail products, Internet content and service providers. Existing competitors may broaden their product lines and potential competitors may enter the market or increase their focus on e-learning, resulting in greater competition for us. Increased competition in our industry could result in price reductions, reduced operating margins or loss of market share, which could seriously harm our business, cash flows and operating results. 9 Table of Contents Our future success will depend on our ability to adapt to technological changes and meet evolving standards in the supplemental educational materials industry. We may encounter difficulties responding to technological changes, which could delay our introduction of products and services or affect sales of our existing products and services. The supplemental educational materials industry is characterized by rapid technological change and obsolescence, frequent product introduction, and evolving standards. Our future success will depend, to a significant extent, on our ability to enhance our existing products, develop and introduce new products, satisfy an expanded range of customer needs and achieve market acceptance. We may not have sufficient resources to make the necessary investments to develop and implement the technological advances required to maintain our competitive position. Our business requires significant investments in product development, and our profitability depends on market acceptance of those products. Our future revenue and profitability, if any, will depend upon various factors, including continued market acceptance of our products. We have made significant investments in developing publications and expect to continue to incur these prepublication expenses associated with the development of additional products and expanded product lines. These costs and expenses include, but are not limited to, editorial expenses, writing, page design and makeup, art and other permissions, prepress and any other costs incurred until the completion of the product and other product development and enhancement costs. In 2005, we had a significant write-down relating to underperforming products. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Our principal stockholders own a large percentage of our voting stock, which will allow them to control substantially all matters requiring stockholder approval. Currently, our largest stockholder beneficially owns approximately 42.6% of our outstanding shares of common stock. Our officers and directors beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 66.3% of our common stock, including any options they may hold that are exercisable within 60 days. Because of such concentration of ownership, our management and our largest stockholder will be able to significantly affect our affairs, including the election of the Board of Directors. If an active trading market for our common stock does not develop, the value and liquidity of your investment in our common stock could be adversely affected. Our common stock has been quoted for trading on the Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol PEDH since June 1, 2005. From September 10, 2004 to May 31, 2005 our common stock was quoted for trading on the OTC Bulletin Board. Before September 10, 2004 there was no established public trading market for our common stock. There is a limited history of public trading for our stock and the trading volume of our common stock on the Nasdaq Capital Market has been consistently low. Additionally, sales of substantial amounts of common stock into the public market by our stockholders could adversely affect the market price for our common stock. The trading price of our common stock may become volatile and could decline. The market price for our common stock may become volatile and may decline in the future for a variety of reasons, including: • variations in our revenue and profitability; • variations in quarterly operating results due to seasonal fluctuations in our business; • changes in earnings estimates by analysts; • announcements of new contracts or product offerings by us or our competitors; • disputes or other developments concerning proprietary rights; • departures of key personnel; • adverse legislative changes; or • announcements by us, or our competitors, of acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments. 10 Table of Contents In particular, the realization of any of the risks described in these “Risk Factors” could have a dramatic and materially adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the stock market and the Nasdaq Stock Market in particular have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations may continue to occur and disproportionately impact our stock price. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could materially affect our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. Because it is unlikely that we will pay dividends, you will only be able to benefit from holding our stock if the stock price appreciates. We currently intend to retain any future earnings for funding growth and, therefore, do not expect to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, you will not experience a return on your investment unless the price of our common stock appreciates and you sell your shares of common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and Delaware law may discourage an acquisition that could deprive our stockholders of opportunities to sell their shares at prices higher than prevailing market prices. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. We may issue shares of preferred stock in the future without stockholder approval with terms to be determined by our board of directors. Our issuance of this preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from acquiring, a majority of our outstanding stock and potentially prevent the payment of a premium to stockholders in an acquisition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS NOT APPLICABLE. 