ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Capitalized terms used in this Item 1A of Part I and not otherwise defined, have the meaning set forth for such terms in the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” section of this report. Certain statements in this report contain words such as “could”, “expect”, “may”, “anticipate”, “will”, “believe”, “intend”, “estimate”, “plan”, “envision”, “seek” and other similar language and are considered forward-looking statements. These statements are based on our current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the operating environment, economies and markets in which we operate. In addition, other written or oral statements that are considered forward-looking may be made by us or others on our behalf. These statements are subject to important risks, uncertainties and assumptions, that are difficult to predict and actual outcomes may be materially different. The Creditor Protection Proceedings have had and will continue to have a direct impact on our business and exacerbate these risks and uncertainties. In particular, the risks described below could cause actual events to differ materially from those contemplated in forward-looking statements. Unless otherwise required by applicable securities laws, we do not have any intention or obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in our securities. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. We have organized our risks into the following categories: • Risks Relating to Our Creditor Protection Proceedings • Risks Relating to Our Remaining Businesses and Operations Risks Relating to Our Creditor Protection Proceedings We, and many of our direct and indirect subsidiaries, are currently subject to Creditor Protection Proceedings and additional subsidiaries could become subject to similar proceedings. Our business, operations and financial position are subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with such proceedings. For the duration of the Creditor Protection Proceedings, our business, operations and financial position are subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with such proceedings. These risks, without limitation and in addition to the risks otherwise noted in this report, are comprised of: Strategic risks, including risks associated with our ability to: • maximize the value of the business through sales of our assets and businesses, including our intellectual property • consummate pending and future divestitures • satisfy obligations in connection with the transition services agreements related to divestitures of our assets and businesses • develop and execute on alternative strategies for our remaining assets in the event we cannot maximize value through sales • develop plans for the conclusion of the Creditor Protection Proceedings in an effective and timely manner • resolve ongoing issues with creditors and other third parties whose interests may differ from ours • resolve allocation of sales proceeds and other inter-estate matters amongst the Debtor estates and other Nortel entities that were vendors in the various business sales • resolve all claims, in particular potentially significant inter-estate claims • obtain creditor, court and any other requisite third party approvals for plans for the conclusion of the Creditor Protection Proceedings • successfully implement plans for the conclusion of the Creditor Protection Proceedings Financial risks, including risks associated with our ability to: • generate cash from operations and maintain adequate cash on hand • continue to maintain ongoing deployment of cash resources throughout the Company in connection with ordinary course intercompany trade obligations and requirements • continue to maintain our current cash management arrangements; • satisfy claims, including our ability to sell assets to satisfy claims against us 7 Table of Contents • realize full or fair value for any remaining assets or businesses we may divest as part of any plans for the conclusion of the Creditor Protection Proceedings • successfully monetize any residual assets, including intellectual property Operational risks, including risks associated with our ability to: • avoid reduction in, or delay or suspension of, customer orders as a result of the uncertainty caused by the Creditor Protection Proceedings including uncertainty surrounding future R&D expenditures • operate effectively in consultation with the Canadian Monitor, and work effectively with the U.K. Administrators in their administration of the business of the EMEA Debtors and the U.S. Principal Officer in his oversight of the U.S. Debtors • actively and adequately communicate on and respond to events, media and rumors associated with the Creditor Protection Proceedings that could adversely affect our relationships with customers, suppliers, partners and employees • retain and incentivize key employees or otherwise replace key employees • in connection with any business not yet sold and stranded contracts, retain our suppliers on acceptable terms and avoid disruptions in our supply chain in order to ultimately sell or transfer these businesses and contracts to a third party Procedural risks, including risks associated with our ability to: • obtain court orders or approvals with respect to motions we file from time to time, including motions seeking extensions of the applicable stays of actions and proceedings against us, or obtain timely approval of transactions outside the ordinary course of business, or other events that may require a timely reaction by us or present opportunities for us • resolve the claims made against us in such proceedings for amounts not exceeding our recorded liabilities subject to compromise • prevent third parties from obtaining court orders or approvals that are contrary to our interests, such as conversion of the U.S. Debtors Chapter 11 reorganization proceedings to Chapter 7 liquidation cases, or the opening of secondary insolvency proceedings in respect of an EMEA Debtor in that debtor’s own country of incorporation • reject, repudiate or terminate contracts • obtain court approval in various jurisdictions of any agreement among the various estates for an allocation of proceeds from completed and ongoing sales of our assets and businesses Because of these risks and uncertainties, and as we have not yet developed any plans for the conclusion of the Creditor Protection Proceedings, we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of the process, or predict or quantify the potential impact on our remaining business and operations, financial condition or results of operations. The Creditor Protection Proceedings provide us with a period of time to continue our operations while maximizing value through sales, and develop plans for the conclusion of the Creditor Protection Proceedings. However, it is not possible to predict the outcome of these proceedings and, as such, the realization of assets and discharge of liabilities are each subject to significant uncertainty. Accordingly, substantial doubt exists as to whether we will be able to continue as a going concern. Our continuation as a going concern is dependent upon, among other things, our ability to develop, obtain confirmation or approval of, and implement any plans for the conclusion of the Creditor Protection Proceedings; generate cash from operations, maintain adequate cash on hand and resolve ongoing issues with creditors and other third parties. There can be no assurance of a successful conclusion of the Creditor Protection Proceedings. We are also exploring strategic alternatives to maximize the value of any residual assets, in particular our intellectual property. A long period of operating under Creditor Protection Proceedings may exacerbate the potential harm to our operations and remaining restructuring work and further restrict our ability to pursue certain business strategies or require us to take actions that we otherwise would not. These challenges are in addition to business, operational and competitive challenges that we would normally face even absent the Creditor Protection Proceedings. Continuing or increasing pressure on our cash and liquidity could materially and adversely affect our ability to fund our remaining business operations, react to and withstand the current economic conditions, as well as volatile and uncertain market and industry conditions, and develop and implement any plans for the conclusion of the Creditor Protection Proceedings. Additional sources of funds may not be available. Historically, we have deployed our cash throughout the corporate group, through a variety of intercompany borrowing and transfer pricing arrangements. As a result of the Creditor Protection Proceedings, cash in the various jurisdictions is generally available to fund operations in the particular jurisdictions, but generally is not freely transferable between jurisdictions or regions, other than as highlighted in “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” section of this report. Thus, there is greater pressure and reliance on cash balances and generation capacity 8 Table of Contents in specific regions and jurisdictions and there can be no guarantee that sufficient cash will be available to fund operations in all jurisdictions. We cannot provide any assurance that our net cash requirements will be as we currently expect and will be sufficient for the successful development, approval and implementation of any plans for the conclusion of the Creditor Protection Proceedings. There can be no assurance that any further required court approvals for any future transactions will be obtained. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to maintain ongoing deployment of cash resources throughout the Company in connection with ordinary course intercompany trade obligations. If our subsidiaries are unable to pay dividends or if there are any restrictions on the transfer of cash between us and our subsidiaries, including those imposed by courts, foreign governments and commercial limitations on transfers of cash pursuant to our joint venture commitments, the cash positions of the Canadian Debtors could be adversely affected. We may not be able to successfully develop, obtain all requisite approvals for, or implement any plans for the conclusion of the Creditor Protection Proceedings. Failure to obtain the requisite approvals for, or failure to successfully develop and implement our plans for the conclusion of the Creditor Protection Proceedings within the time granted by the courts would, in all likelihood, lead to the liquidation of all of our assets. Pursuant to the ongoing Creditor Protection Proceedings we are working on developing plans for the conclusion of the Creditor Protection Proceedings in the various jurisdictions in which we have initiated proceedings. For each plan in the relevant jurisdictions, we must obtain the approvals of the respective courts and creditors, and the Canadian Monitor (in Canada) and U.K. Administrators (in the U.K.) and the U.S. Principal Officer. We may not receive the requisite approvals and even if we do, a dissenting holder of a claim against us may challenge and ultimately delay the final approval and implementation of plans for the conclusion of the Creditor Protection Proceedings. If we are not successful in developing plans for the conclusion of the Creditor Protection Proceedings, or if we are successful in developing them but do not receive the requisite approvals, it is not clear what distributions, if any, holders of claims against us would receive. Should the stay or moratorium period and any subsequent extension thereof not be sufficient to develop and implement any of the plans for the conclusion of the Creditor Protection Proceedings, or should such plans not be approved by creditors and the courts and, in any such case, the Debtors lose the protection of such stay or moratorium, substantially all of our debt obligations will become due and payable immediately, or subject to acceleration. This would create an immediate liquidity crisis that in all likelihood would lead to the liquidation of all of our assets, in which case it is likely that holders of claims would receive substantially less favorable treatment than they would receive if we were able to develop and implement plans for the conclusion of the Creditor Protection Proceedings. Allocation of the sale proceeds of our businesses among the various Nortel entities participating in these sales may take considerable time to resolve. In accordance with the IFSA and pursuant to various orders of the Canadian Court and the U.S. Court, approximately $2,832 of the net proceeds received from the sale of certain of our completed global business divestitures are being held in escrow until the final allocation of these proceeds amongst the various Nortel entities that participated in such divestitures (Nortel Sellers) is ultimately determined. At various times during the second half of 2009 and the first quarter of 2010, the Canadian Debtors, the U.S. Debtors and the U.K. Administrators, with the involvement of the Canadian Monitor, the U.S. Principal Officer, the U.S. Creditors’ Committee and the Bondholder Group, engaged in negotiations regarding the scope and terms of a proposed protocol for resolving disputes concerning the allocation of such sale proceeds (Allocation Protocol), as required by the terms of the IFSA. However, it became apparent that the parties had differing views concerning the allocation of the sale proceeds, inter-company claims and the proper scope of the Allocation Protocol. In order to address this impasse, the Canadian Debtors, the U.S. Debtors and the U.K. Administrators agreed to temporarily suspend negotiations on the Allocation Protocol and instead focussed on a process to facilitate a comprehensive settlement to resolve all material outstanding inter-estate matters, including the allocation of the sale proceeds and the settlement of inter-company claims. To this end, the parties met on several occasions to outline, on a confidential and without prejudice basis, their respective allocation methodologies and potential inter-company claims that may be asserted. As a result of these meetings and the complexity of the issues that were raised, the Canadian Debtors, the U.S. Debtors, the EMEA Debtors, the U.K. Administrators, the Canadian Monitor, the U.S. Principal Officer, the U.S. Creditors’ Committee, the Bondholder Group and certain other interested parties (the Mediation Parties) agreed that these inter-estate negotiations would be aided by the appointment of a neutral mediator to review and mediate the issues. The parties selected Layn R. Phillips, a former U.S. federal district court judge and experienced commercial mediator, to serve as mediator and review the positions and viewpoints of the various parties on allocation and unresolved inter-estate matters. A confidential, non-binding mediation was held in November 2010. The mediation session did not result in the resolution of the issues presented. 9 Table of Contents As a result of the November 2010 mediation session and positions taken in the CCAA Proceedings, it became apparent that the U.K. Administrators and certain other parties, who were also substantial creditors of the EMEA Debtors, were alleging a number of significant potential claims against the Canadian Debtors as well as the U.S. Debtors. These potential claims are integral to the allocation positions of these parties and include allegations of proprietary and trust-type claims. Consequently, the Canadian Monitor and the Canadian Debtors determined that, absent reaching a comprehensive settlement of allocation and inter-company claims issues, these specific claims needed to be resolved first. Accordingly, on January 14, 2011 the Canadian Debtors obtained an order (EMEA Claims Procedure Order) of the Canadian Court establishing a process for the calling of claims (EMEA Claims) by EMEA Creditors (as defined in the EMEA Claims Procedure Order) against the Canadian Debtors as of the Petition Date, establishing a claims bar date of March 18, 2011 for the filing of EMEA Claims, and establishing a process for the determination and resolution of EMEA Claims. Notwithstanding the commencement of the process for the determination and resolution of EMEA Claims, the Mediation Parties have continued to engage in discussions regarding the resumption of mediation and another confidential, non-binding mediation has been scheduled in April 2011. However, no assurances can be given as to whether this mediation process will be resumed and, if so resumed, the timing or outcome of such mediation process. Due to the complexity and multi-jurisdictional nature of the Creditor Protection Proceedings, coupled with the fact that the Nortel Sellers also include entities in various jurisdictions that are not subject to court supervision or proceedings, absent agreement on an Allocation Protocol and resolution of the EMEA Claims, there is uncertainty regarding the legal process to effect a binding allocation on all of the Nortel Sellers. The Canadian Debtors and the Canadian Monitor believe, as a consequence, that a timely and effective resolution of allocation disputes necessitates a consensual resolution among all of the relevant parties. Delays in the ultimate resolution of allocation and inter-company claims matters potentially could be significant, particularly if the EMEA Claims are not settled and must be determined and resolved in accordance with the process established by the EMEA Claims Procedure Order. Such delays would result in a corresponding significant delay in the timing of distributions to holders of validated claims against the various estates. During the pendency of the Creditor Protection Proceedings, our financial results may be volatile and may not reflect historical trends. Also, as a result of the Creditor Protection Proceedings, our internal controls are currently subject to review and modification. During the pendency of the Creditor Protection Proceedings, we expect our financial results to continue to be volatile as asset impairments, asset dispositions, restructuring activities, contract terminations and rejections, and claims assessments may significantly impact our consolidated financial statements. As a result, our historical financial performance is likely not indicative of our financial performance following the Petition Date. As a result of the Creditor Protection Proceedings, we have adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification 852 “Reorganizations” (ASC 852), effective January 14, 2009, which requires certain changes and additional reporting in our financial statements beginning in the quarter ended March 31, 2009Also, due to the Creditor Protection Proceedings, our internal controls are subject to review and modification, and we may have to implement additional controls to accommodate the adoption of ASC 852 as well as any of the additional reporting requirements relating to our Creditor Protection Proceedings. We have also implemented changes in relation to the business divestitures and the transition services agreements. These changes are described in “Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting” in the “Controls and Procedures” section of this report. The implementation of the foregoing may adversely affect the ability to timely file our reports. Canadian, U.S. and U.K. laws impair the ability of claimants to take action against us under our existing contracts, including the outstanding notes and related guarantees of us, NNL, NNI and NNCC. Subject to limited exceptions, all actions are stayed and ultimate recoveries cannot be determined at this time. Generally, in connection with the Creditor Protection Proceedings, all actions to enforce or otherwise effect payment or repayment of liabilities of any Debtor preceding the Petition Date, as well as pending litigation against any Debtor, are stayed. The U.S. Bankruptcy Code provides for all actions and proceedings against the U.S. Debtors to be stayed while the Chapter 11 Proceedings are pending. In Canada, the Initial Order also provides for a general stay of actions against the Canadian Debtors, officers and directors. This stay period currently extends to June 30, 2011 and is subject to further extension. With limited exceptions, the stays in effect pursuant to the Chapter 11 Proceedings and CCAA Proceedings generally preclude parties from taking any actions against the Debtors. Similarly, under the U.K. Administration Proceedings, subject to limited exceptions as may be approved by the U.K. Administrators or the English Court, no legal process (including legal proceedings, execution, distress and diligence) may be instituted or continued against the EMEA Debtors. Certain parties, including the Pensions Regulator in the U.K., have attempted to commence or continue proceedings against certain Debtors despite these limitations during the Creditor Protection Proceedings. While these limitations have continued to be recognized and enforced by the relevant courts, there can be no guarantee that these limitations will be successfully enforced in all circumstances. 10 Table of Contents The rights of the indenture trustees (who represent the holders of debt securities issued or guaranteed by us, NNL, NNI and NNCC) to enforce remedies for defaults under our debt securities and guarantees are subject to the stays, and could be delayed or limited by the restructuring provisions of applicable Canadian, U.S. and U.K. creditor protection legislation. Moreover, we, NNL, NNI and NNCC have not made, and will likely continue not to make, any payments under our various debt securities during the Creditor Protection Proceedings, and holders of our debt securities may not be compensated for any delays in payment of principal, interest and costs, if any, including the fees and disbursements of the trustees. Plans for the conclusion of the Creditor Protection Proceedings, if successfully developed and accepted by the requisite majorities of each affected class of creditors and approved by the relevant courts, would be binding on all creditors within each affected class, including those that did not vote to accept the proposal. The ultimate recovery to creditors and security holders, if any, will not be determined until plans for the conclusion of the Creditor Protection Proceedings are developed and approved. At this time we do not know what values, if any, will be prescribed pursuant to any such plan to the securities held by each of these constituencies, or what form or amounts of distributions, if any, they may receive on account of their interests. If we are unable to retain qualified personnel at reasonable costs, we may not be able to achieve our business objectives, and our ability to successfully conclude the Creditor Protection Proceedings may be harmed. We are dependent on the experience and industry knowledge of our senior management and other key employees to execute our current business plans, fulfill our obligations under TSAs in connection with divestiture of operations, and lead the Company during the Creditor Protection Proceedings and throughout the development and implementation of any plans for the conclusion of the Creditor Protection Proceedings. Competition for certain key positions and specialized technical and sales personnel in the high-technology industry remains strong. Our deteriorating financial performance, along with the Creditor Protection Proceedings, and workforce reduction activities have created uncertainty that has led to an increase in unwanted attrition, and challenges in retaining qualified personnel. We are at risk of losing or being unable to hire talent critical to the remaining restructuring activities and to develop and implement any plans for the conclusion of the Creditor Protection Proceedings. Our ability to independently manage our business is restricted during the Creditor Protection Proceedings, and steps or actions in connection therewith may require the approval of the respective courts, the creditors, the Canadian Monitor, the U.K. Administrators and the U.S. Principal Officer. Pursuant to the various court orders and statutory regimes to which we are subject during the Creditor Protection Proceedings, some or all of the decisions with respect to our business and operations may require consultation with, review by or ultimate approval of one or all of the respective courts in the several jurisdictions, the U.S. Creditors’ Committee, the Bondholder Group, the Canadian Monitor, the U.K. Administrators and the U.S. Principal Officer. In particular, under the U.K. Administration Proceedings, the respective boards of directors of each of the EMEA Debtors have been displaced in favor of the U.K. Administrators who have been appointed by the English Court and empowered to manage the business, affairs and property of the EMEA Debtors and current management of the EMEA Debtors is accountable to the U.K. Administrators. The lack of independence, the related consulting and reporting requirements and the legal obligations of the Debtors with regard to their respective creditors are expected to significantly extend the amount of time necessary for the Company to take necessary actions and conclude and execute on decisions, and may make it impossible for us to take actions that we believe are in the best interests of the Company. There can be no assurance that the U.S. Creditors’ Committee, the Bondholder Group, other creditors, the Canadian Monitor or the U.K. Administrators will support the Debtors’ positions on matters presented to the courts in the future, or on any plans for the conclusion of the Creditor Protection Proceedings, once developed and proposed. Disagreements between us and these various third parties could protract the Creditor Protection Proceedings, negatively impact the Debtors’ ability to operate and delay the Debtors’ conclusion of the Creditor Protection Proceedings. Transfers or issuances of our equity, or a debt restructuring, may impair or reduce our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes in the future. Pursuant to U.S. tax rules, a corporation is generally permitted to deduct from taxable income in any year net operating losses (NOLs) carried forward from prior years. However, our ability to utilize NOL carryforwards could be limited by reorganization or restructuring activities that affect the ownership of our equity. We can provide no assurance on the nature of these activities and our ability to utilize our NOL carryforwards. A restructuring of our debt pursuant to the Creditor Protection Proceedings may give rise to cancellation of indebtedness or debt forgiveness (COD), which if it occurs would generally be non-taxable. If the COD is non-taxable, we will be required to reduce our NOL carryforwards and other attributes such as capital loss carryforwards and tax basis in assets, by an amount equal to the non-recognized COD. Therefore, it is possible that, as a result of the successful completion of plans for the conclusion of the Creditor 11 Table of Contents Protection Proceedings, we will have a reduction of NOL carryforwards and/or other tax attributes in an amount that cannot be determined at this time and that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. Trading in our securities during the pendency of the Creditor Protection Proceedings is highly speculative, poses substantial risks, and is subject to certain restrictions imposed to protect our NOL carryforwards that are described directly above. NNC common shares have been delisted from the NYSE and the TSX, which has made our common shares significantly less liquid; and the TSX has also delisted the NNL preferred shares. We do not expect that any value will be prescribed to the NNC common shares and NNL preferred shares. Trading prices are very volatile and may bear little or no relationship to the actual recovery, if any, by the holders under any eventual court-approved plans for the conclusion of the Creditor Protection Proceedings. In such a plan, our existing securities may be cancelled and holders may receive no payment or other consideration in return, or they may receive a payment or other consideration that is less than the trading price or the purchase price of such securities. In addition, the U.S. Court has entered an order that places certain limitations on trading in certain of our securities to protect our NOL carryforwards. For this reason, investors need our consent or court approval before effecting any transactions in NNC common shares or NNL preferred shares if they hold, or would as a result of the transaction acquire, at least 4.75% of the outstanding NNC common shares or any series of NNL preferred shares. Effective February 2, 2009, NNC common shares were delisted by the NYSE. On June 26, 2009, NNC common shares and NNL preferred shares were delisted from the TSX. NNC common shares currently continue to trade on the TSX and the “over-the-counter” (OTC) market in the U.S., and their price is quoted on the Pink Sheets Electronic Quotation Service (Pink Sheets) maintained by Pink Sheets LLC. We do not expect that holders of NNC common shares and NNL preferred shares will receive any value from the Creditor Protection Proceedings and we expect that the proceedings will ultimately result in the cancellation of these equity interests. OTC transactions involve risks in addition to those associated with transactions on a stock exchange. Many OTC stocks trade less frequently and in smaller volumes than stocks listed on an exchange. Accordingly, OTC-traded shares are less liquid and are likely to be more volatile than exchange-traded stocks. The price of NNC common shares is currently electronically displayed on the Pink Sheets in the U.S., which is a quotation medium that publishes market maker quotes for OTC securities. It is not a stock exchange or listing service and is not owned, operated or regulated by any exchange. Investors are advised that Nortel has not taken any steps to have our securities quoted on the Pink Sheets; there is no relationship, contractual or otherwise, between an issuer whose securities are quoted on the Pink Sheets, and Pink Sheets LLC; and Pink Sheets LLC exercises no regulatory oversight over Nortel. Our status on the Pink Sheets is dependent on market makers’ willingness to continue to provide the service of accepting trades of NNC common shares. Some or all of the U.S. Debtors could be substantively consolidated. There is a risk that an interested party in the Chapter 11 Proceedings, including any of the U.S. Debtors, could request that the assets and liabilities of NNI, or those of other U.S. Debtors, be substantively consolidated with those of one or more other U.S. Debtors. While it has not been requested to date, we cannot assure you that substantive consolidation will not be requested in the future, or that the U.S. Court would not order it. If litigation over substantive consolidation occurs, or if substantive consolidation is ordered, the ability of a U.S. Debtor that has been substantively consolidated with another U.S. Debtor to make payments required with respect to its debt could be adversely affected. For example, the rights of unsecured debt holders of NNI may be diminished or diluted if NNI were consolidated with one or more entities that have a higher amount of unsecured priority claims or other unsecured claims relative to the value of their assets available to pay such claims. Risks Relating to Our Remaining Businesses and Operations We are fully exposed to market risk primarily from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. Adverse fluctuations in these markets could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. To manage the risk from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates, we had entered into various derivative hedging transactions in accordance with our policies and procedures. However, as a result of our Creditor Protection Proceedings, the financial institutions that were our counterparties in these transactions have terminated the related instruments. Consequently, we are now fully exposed to these risks and expect to remain so exposed at least until the conclusion of the Creditor Protection Proceedings. Fluctuations in these or other rates could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Similarly, our debt is subject to changes in fair value resulting from changes in market interest rates. 12 Table of Contents If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights, or if we are subject to adverse judgments or settlements arising out of disputes regarding intellectual property rights, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Our proprietary technology is very important to our business. We rely on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws to protect that technology. Our business is global, and the extent of that protection varies by jurisdiction. The protection of our proprietary technology may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and our intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to provide us with competitive advantages. In particular, we may not be successful in obtaining any particular patent. Even if issued, future patents or other intellectual property rights may not be sufficiently broad to protect our proprietary technology. Competitors may misappropriate our intellectual property, disputes as to ownership may arise, and our intellectual property may otherwise fall into the public domain or similar intellectual property may be independently developed by competitors reducing the competitive benefits of our intellectual property. Claims of intellectual property infringement or trade secret misappropriation may also be asserted against us, or against our customers in connection with their use of our products or our intellectual property rights may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or fail to provide significant competitive advantages. We believe that intellectual property licensed from third parties will remain available on commercially reasonable terms in such cases, however there can be no assurance such rights will be available on such terms and an inability to license such rights could have a material adverse effect on our business. An unfavorable outcome in such a claim could require us to cease offering for sale the products that are the subject of such a claim, pay substantial monetary damages to a third party, make ongoing royalty payments to a third party and indemnify our customers. Defense or assertion of claims of intellectual property infringement or trade secret misappropriation may require extensive participation by senior management and other key employees and may reduce their time and ability to focus on other aspects of our business. Successful claims of intellectual property infringement or other intellectual property claims against us or our customers, or a failure by us to protect our proprietary technology, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to maintain the integrity of our information systems, our operations and remaining work under the Creditor Protection Proceedings may be harmed. We rely on the security of our information systems, among other things, to protect our proprietary information and information of our customers. If we do not maintain adequate security procedures over our information systems, we may be susceptible to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems to access our proprietary information or that of our customers. Even if we are able to maintain procedures that are adequate to address current security risks, hackers or other unauthorized users may develop new techniques that will enable them to successfully circumvent our current security procedures. The failure to protect our proprietary information could seriously harm our operations and our remaining work under the Creditor Protection Proceedings or expose us to claims by our customers, employees or others that we did not adequately protect their proprietary information. In connection with our ongoing cost reduction activities and as part of the ongoing work toward the separation of the Debtor estates, we are reviewing all of our information systems in an effort to plan toward a significant reduction in the number and complexity of our current systems. In addition to significant cost reductions, the goal is for each Debtor estate to have in place stand alone systems as required by each estate on an ongoing basis now that we have sold substantially all of our businesses and are working toward completion of our TSA obligations as well as the wind down of our remaining operations. This is a very complex task given the number of globally integrated systems currently in place. Thus there is risk in the plan in particular with respect to the significant reduction in the number of inter-dependent systems and in establishing and effectively implementing separate stand-alone systems which, in turn, could negatively impact on our ability to continue to operate and our ability to continue to report our financial results in U.S. GAAP on a timely basis, or at all. Our risk management strategy may not be effective or commensurate to the risks we are facing. We maintain policies of insurance of the types and in the amounts that are appropriate for our circumstances. We have retained certain self-insurance risks with respect to certain employee benefit programs such as worker’s compensation, group health insurance, life insurance and other types of insurance. Our risk management programs and claims handling and litigation processes utilize internal professionals and external technical expertise. If this risk management strategy is not effective or is not commensurate to the risks we are facing, these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. 