ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this document, readers should carefully consider the following risk factors. Any of these risks or the occurrence of any one or more of the uncertainties described below could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and the performance of our business. Risks Related to Our Properties and Business We face risks associated with our recent and future property acquisitions. Since January 1, 2012, we have acquired nine office properties totaling over 3.4 million square feet of office space, increasing the total square footage of our portfolio by approximately 24%. In addition, we intend to continue to pursue the acquisition of properties and portfolios of properties, including large portfolios that could further increase our size and result in further alterations to our capital structure. Our acquisition activities and their success are subject to the following risks: · acquisition agreements contain and will likely contain conditions to closing, including completion of due diligence investigations to our satisfaction or other conditions that are not within our control, which may not be satisfied; · we may be unable to finance acquisitions on favorable terms or at all; · acquired properties may fail to perform as expected; · the actual costs of repositioning or redeveloping acquired properties may be higher than our estimates; · we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage for new properties; · acquired properties may be located in new markets where we face risks associated with an incomplete knowledge or understanding of the local market and a limited number of established business relationships in the area; and · we may acquire properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, to the transferor with respect to unknown liabilities, including liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination. As a result, if a claim were asserted against us based upon ownership of those properties, we might have to pay substantial sums to settle it, which could adversely affect our cash flow. Our business and operating results could be negatively affected if we are unable to integrate our recent and future acquisitions successfully. Integration of acquisitions involves a number of significant risks, including the diversion of management's attention to the assimilation of the operations of the acquired businesses or assets; difficulties in the integration of operations and systems; the inability to realize potential operating synergies; difficulties in the assimilation and retention of the personnel of the acquired companies; accounting, regulatory or compliance issues that could arise, including internal control over financial reporting; and challenges in retaining the customers of the combined businesses. Further, acquisitions may have a material adverse impact on our operating results if unanticipated expenses or charges to earnings were to occur, including unanticipated operating expenses and depreciation and amortization expenses over the useful lives of certain assets acquired, as well as costs related to potential impairment charges, assumed litigation and unknown liabilities. If we are unable to successfully integrate our recent and future acquisitions in a timely and cost-effective manner, our operating results could be negatively affected. Competition for acquisitions may reduce the number of acquisition opportunities available to us and increase the costs of those acquisitions. We plan to continue to acquire properties as we are presented with attractive opportunities. We may face competition for acquisition opportunities from other investors and this competition may adversely affect us by subjecting us to the following risks: Page 8 of 113 · an inability to acquire a desired property because of competition from other well-capitalized real estate investors, including publicly traded and privately held REITs, private real estate funds, domestic and foreign financial institutions, life insurance companies, sovereign wealth funds, pension trusts, partnerships and individual investors; and · an increase in the purchase price for such acquisition property in the event we are able to acquire such desired property. TPG VI Pantera Holdings, L.P. is a significant stockholder and may have conflicts of interest with us in the future. As of December 31, 2012, TPG VI Pantera Holdings, L.P. ("TPG Pantera") owned approximately 42.1% of our issued and outstanding common stock. As a result, TPG Pantera is our largest single stockholder, while no other stockholder is permitted to own more than 9.8% of our common stock, except as approved by our board of directors pursuant to the terms of our charter. In addition, so long as TPG Pantera owns at least 10% of our issued and outstanding common stock, TPG Pantera has a pre-emptive right to participate in our future equity issuances, subject to certain conditions. This concentration of ownership in one stockholder could potentially be disadvantageous to other stockholders' interests. In addition, if TPG Pantera were to sell or otherwise transfer all or a large percentage of its holdings, our stock price could decline and we could find it difficult to raise capital, if needed, through the sale of additional equity securities. The interests of TPG Pantera and its affiliates may differ from the interests of our other stockholders in material respects. For example, TPG Pantera and its affiliates may have an interest in directly or indirectly pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their other equity investments, even though such transactions might involve risks to us. TPG Pantera and its affiliates are in the business of making or advising on investments in companies and may from time to time in the future acquire interests in, or provide advice to, businesses that directly or indirectly compete with certain portions of our business. They may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. Our stockholders agreement with TPG Pantera and TPG VI Management, LLC grants TPG Pantera certain rights that may restrain our ability to take various actions in the future. In connection with TPG Pantera's May 2012 investment in us, we entered into a stockholders agreement with TPG Pantera and TPG VI Management, LLC, an affiliate of TPG Pantera (collectively, the "TPG Entities"), pursuant to which we granted TPG Pantera certain rights that may restrain our ability to take various actions in the future. Under the stockholders agreement, as amended, we have agreed to maintain a nine member board of directors, and TPG Pantera will have the right to nominate a specified number of directors to the board and to have a specified number of such directors appointed to each committee of the board of directors for so long as TPG Pantera's ownership percentage of our common stock is equal to or greater than 5%. TPG Pantera will be entitled to nominate to the board (i) four directors if TPG Pantera's ownership percentage of our common stock is at least 25% and it continues to own at least 90% of the shares of our common stock that it owned as of the completion of our underwritten public offering in December 2012 (the "2012 offering"), which is approximately 21.2 million shares, (ii) three directors if TPG Pantera's ownership percentage is at least 20% but less than 25% and it continues to own at least 70% of the shares of our common stock that it owned as of the completion of the 2012 offering, which is approximately 16.5 million shares, (iii) two directors if TPG Pantera's ownership percentage is at least 15% but less than 20%, and (iv) one director if TPG Pantera's ownership percentage is at least 5% but less than 15%. In addition, we have agreed to constitute each of our board committees as a four member committee and (i) for so long as TPG Pantera's ownership percentage of our common stock is equal to or greater than 22.5%, TPG Pantera has the right to have two of its nominated directors appointed to each committee of the board, and (ii) for so long as TPG Pantera's ownership percentage is equal to or greater than 5% but less than 22.5%, TPG Pantera will have the right to have one of its nominated directors appointed to each committee of the board. Pursuant to the terms of the stockholders agreement, TPG Pantera also will have the right to consent to certain actions related to our corporate existence and governance, including any change in the rights and responsibilities of either the investment committee of the board or the compensation committee of the board, for so long as TPG Pantera's ownership percentage of our common stock is equal to or greater than 22.5%, other than in connection with any change in control. Page 9 of 113 In addition, for so long as TPG Pantera's ownership percentage of our common stock is equal to or greater than 5%, other than in connection with any change in control of us, the rights and responsibilities of the investment committee of the board will include (i) except for certain permitted issuances relating to outstanding rights to purchase or acquire our capital stock, compensation arrangements and acquisition transactions, any sale or issuance of any capital stock or other security, (ii) any incurrence of indebtedness with a principal amount greater than $20 million, and (iii) any other matters over which the investment committee currently has approval authority, including without limitation material asset acquisitions and dispositions. During such period, the rights and responsibilities of the compensation committee of the board will include (i) the hiring or termination of any our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Operating Officer or Chief Investment Officer, or any material change in any of the duties of any such executive officer, and (ii) any approval of future compensation arrangements for such officers. During such period, the board may not approve such matters without the affirmative approval of the investment committee or the compensation committee, as applicable. Our performance is subject to risks inherent in owning real estate investments. Our investments are generally made in office properties. We are, therefore, generally subject to risks incidental to the ownership of real estate. These risks include: · changes in supply of or demand for office properties or tenants for such properties in areas in which we own buildings; · the ongoing need for capital improvements; · increased operating costs, which may not necessarily be offset by increased rents, including insurance premiums, utilities and real estate taxes, due to inflation and other factors; · changes in tax, real estate and zoning laws; · changes in governmental rules and fiscal policies; · inability of tenants to pay rent; · existence and quality of competition, such as the attractiveness of our properties as compared to our competitors' properties based on considerations such as convenience of location, rental rates, amenities and safety record; and · civil unrest, acts of war, acts of God, including earthquakes, hurricanes and other natural disasters (which may result in uninsured losses), and other factors beyond our control. Should any of these events occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. The economic conditions of our primary markets affect our operations. Substantially all of our properties are located in the Southeastern and Southwestern United States and, therefore, our financial condition and ability to make distributions to our stockholders is linked to economic conditions in these markets as well as the market for office space generally in these markets. A downturn in these markets, particularly increases in unemployment, may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If recent adverse global market and economic conditions worsen or do not fully recover, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. In the U.S., market and economic conditions continue to be challenging with tighter credit conditions and modest growth. Although the U.S. economy has emerged from the recent recession and economic data reflects a stabilization of the economy and credit markets, the cost and availability of credit and the commercial real estate market generally may be adversely affected by persistent high levels of unemployment, insufficient consumer demand or confidence, the impacts of "sequestration" under the Budget Control Act of 2011 or other changes in the U.S. federal budgetary process, the on-going European sovereign debt crisis, changes in regulatory environments and other macro-economic factors. If current economic conditions deteriorate, business layoffs, downsizing, industry slowdowns and other similar factors that affect our customers could negatively impact commercial real estate fundamentals and result in lower occupancy, lower rental rates and declining values in our real estate portfolio. The timing of changes in occupancy levels tends to lag the timing of changes in overall economic activity and employment levels. Additionally, deteriorating economic conditions could have an impact on our lenders or customers, causing them to fail to meet their obligations to us. No assurances can be given that the current economic conditions will continue to improve, and if the economic recovery slows or stalls, our ability to lease our properties and increase or maintain rental rates may be effected, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Page 10 of 113 We face considerable competition in the leasing market and may be unable to renew existing leases or re-let space on terms similar to our existing leases, or we may expend significant capital in our efforts to re-let space, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Each year, we compete with a number of other owners and operators of office properties to renew leases with our existing tenants and to attract new tenants. To the extent that we are able to renew leases that are scheduled to expire in the short-term or re-let such space to new tenants, heightened competition resulting from adverse market conditions may require us to utilize rent concessions and tenant improvements to a greater extent than we historically have. In addition, the economic downturn of the last several years has led to increased competition for credit worthy tenants and we may have difficulty competing with competitors who have purchased properties at depressed prices because our competitor's lower cost basis in their properties may allow them to offer space at reduced rental rates. If our competitors offer space at rental rates below current market rates or below the rental rates we currently charge our tenants, we may lose potential tenants, and we may be pressured to reduce our rental rates below those we currently charge in order to retain tenants upon expiration of their existing leases. Even if our tenants renew their leases or we are able to re-let the space, the terms and other costs of renewal or re-letting, including the cost of required renovations, increased tenant improvement allowances, leasing commissions, declining rental rates, and other potential concessions, may be less favorable than the terms of our current leases and could require significant capital expenditures. If we are unable to renew leases or re-let space in a reasonable time, or if rental rates decline or tenant improvement, leasing commissions, or other costs increase, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. An oversupply of space in our markets would typically cause rental rates and occupancies to decline, making it more difficult for us to lease space at attractive rental rates, if at all. Undeveloped land in many of the markets in which we operate is generally more readily available and less expensive than in higher barrier-to-entry markets such as New York, Chicago, Boston, San Francisco and Los Angeles. As a result, even during times of positive economic growth, our competitors could construct new buildings that would compete with our properties. Any such oversupply could result in lower occupancy and rental rates in our portfolio, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations. Tenant defaults could adversely affect our operations. The majority of our revenues and income come from rental income from real property. As such, our revenues and income could be adversely affected if a significant number of our tenants defaulted under their lease obligations. Our ability to manage our assets is also subject to federal bankruptcy laws and state laws that limit creditors' rights and remedies available to real property owners to collect delinquent rents. If a tenant becomes insolvent or bankrupt, we cannot be sure that we could recover the premises from the tenant promptly or from a trustee or debtor-in-possession in any bankruptcy proceeding relating to that tenant. We also cannot be sure that we would receive rent in the proceeding sufficient to cover our expenses with respect to the premises. If a tenant becomes bankrupt, the federal bankruptcy code will apply and, in some instances, may restrict the amount and recoverability of our claims against the tenant. A tenant's default on its obligations to us could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Some of our leases provide tenants with the right to terminate their leases early, which could have an adverse effect on our cash flow and results of operations. Certain of our leases permit our tenants to terminate their leases as to all or a portion of the leased premises prior to their stated lease expiration dates under certain circumstances, such as providing notice by a certain date and, in most cases, paying a termination fee. To the extent that our tenants exercise early termination rights, our cash flow and earnings will be adversely affected, and we can provide no assurances that we will be able to generate an equivalent amount of net effective rent by leasing the vacated space to new third party tenants. Our expenses may remain constant or increase, even if our revenues decrease, causing our results of operations to be adversely affected. Costs associated with our business, such as mortgage payments, real estate taxes, insurance premiums and maintenance costs, are relatively inflexible and generally do not decrease, and may increase, when a property is not fully occupied, rental rates decrease, a tenant fails to pay rent or other circumstances cause a reduction in property revenues. As a result, if revenues drop, we may not be able to reduce our expenses accordingly, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Page 11 of 113 Illiquidity of real estate may limit our ability to vary our portfolio. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid. Our ability to vary our portfolio by selling properties and buying new ones in response to changes in economic and other conditions may therefore be limited. In addition, the Internal Revenue Code limits our ability to sell our properties by imposing a penalty tax of 100% on the gain derived from prohibited transactions, which are defined as sales of property held primarily for sale to tenants in the ordinary course of a trade or business. The frequency of sales and the holding period of the property sold are two primary factors in determining whether the property sold fits within this definition. These considerations may limit our opportunities to sell our properties. If we must sell an investment, we cannot assure you that we will be able to dispose of the investment in the time period we desire or that the sales price of the investment will recoup or exceed our cost for the investment, or that the penalty tax would not be assessed. We rely on three properties for a significant portion of our revenue. As of December 31, 2012, three of our properties, Hearst Tower, Phoenix Tower and NASCAR Plaza, together accounted for approximately 23% of our portfolio's annualized base rent, and no other property accounted for more than approximately 6% of our portfolio's annualized base rent. Our revenue and cash available for distribution to our stockholders would be materially and adversely affected if these properties were materially damaged or destroyed. Additionally, our revenue and cash available for distribution to our stockholders would be materially adversely affected if tenants at these properties experienced a downturn in their business, which could weaken their financial condition and result in their failure to make timely rental payments, defaulting under their leases or filing for bankruptcy. Our joint venture investments could be adversely affected by the capital markets, our lack of sole decision-making authority, our reliance on joint venture partner's financial condition and any disputes that may arise between us and our joint venture partners. We have in the past co-invested, and may in the future co-invest, with third parties through partnerships, joint ventures or other structures, acquiring non-controlling interests in, or sharing responsibility for managing the affairs of, a property, partnership, co-tenancy or other entity. Therefore, we may not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding the properties owned through joint ventures. In addition, investments in joint ventures may, under certain circumstances, involve risks not present when a third party is not involved, including potential deadlocks in making major decisions, restrictions on our ability to exit the joint venture, reliance on our joint venture partners and the possibility that joint venture partners might become bankrupt or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions, thus exposing us to liabilities in excess of our share of the investment. The funding of our capital contributions may be dependent on proceeds from asset sales, credit facility advances and/or sales of equity securities. Joint venture partners may have business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals and may be in a position to take actions contrary to our policies or objectives. We may in specific circumstances be liable for the actions of our joint venture partners. In addition, any disputes that may arise between us and joint venture partners may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses. We and our properties are subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as environmental laws, state and local fire and safety requirements, building codes and land use regulations. We and our properties are subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as environmental laws, state and local fire and safety requirements, building codes and land use regulations. Failure to comply with these requirements could subject us to governmental fines or private litigant damage awards. In addition, compliance with these requirements, including new requirements or stricter interpretation of existing requirements, may require us to incur significant expenditures. We do not know whether existing requirements will change or whether future requirements, including any requirements that may emerge from pending or future climate change legislation, will develop. In addition, as a current or former owner or operator of real property, we may be subject to liabilities resulting from the presence of hazardous substances, waste or petroleum products at, on or emanating from such property, including investigation and cleanup costs; natural resource damages; third-party liability for cleanup costs, personal injury or property damage; and costs or losses arising from property use restrictions. Cleanup liabilities are often imposed without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such contamination, and the liability may be joint and several. Moreover, buildings and other improvements on our properties may contain asbestos-containing material or could have indoor air quality concerns (e.g., from mold), which may subject us to costs, damages and other liabilities including cleanup and personal injury liabilities. The foregoing could adversely affect occupancy and our ability to develop, sell or borrow against any affected property and could require us to make significant unanticipated expenditures that would adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Page 12 of 113 We may be adversely affected by laws, regulations or other issues related to climate change. If we become subject to laws or regulations related to climate change, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be impacted adversely. The federal government has enacted, and some of the states and localities in which we operate may enact certain climate change laws and regulations or have begun regulating carbon footprints and greenhouse gas emissions. Although these laws and regulations have not had any known material adverse effects on our business to date, they could result in substantial compliance costs, retrofit costs and construction costs, including monitoring and reporting costs and capital expenditures for environmental control facilities and other new equipment. Furthermore, our reputation could be negatively affected if we violate climate change laws or regulations. We cannot predict how future laws and regulations, or future interpretations of current laws and regulations, related to climate change will affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Lastly, the potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain, and would be particular to the geographic circumstances in areas in which we operate. These may include changes in rainfall and storm patterns and intensities, water shortages, changing sea levels and changing temperatures. These impacts may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Compliance or failure to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act could result in substantial costs. Our properties must comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act ("ADA"), to the extent that our properties are public accommodations as defined by the ADA. Under the ADA, all public accommodations must meet federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. If one or more of our properties is not in compliance with the ADA or other legislation, then we may be required to incur additional costs to bring the property into compliance with the ADA or similar state or local laws. Noncompliance with the ADA could also result in imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. We cannot predict the ultimate amount of the cost of compliance with the ADA or other legislation. If we incur substantial costs to comply with the ADA or other legislation, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our third-party management and leasing agreements are subject to the risk of termination and non-renewal. Our third party management and leasing agreements are subject to the risk of possible termination under certain circumstances, including our failure to perform as required under these agreements and to the risk of non-renewal by the property owner upon expiration or renewal on terms less favorable to us than the current terms. Many of the management and leasing agreements that expire or are contractually terminable prior to December 31, 2013 will automatically renew if written notice is not received by us prior to the termination date. If management and leasing agreements are terminated, or are not renewed upon expiration, our expected revenues will decrease and our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our third-party property management business may subject us to certain liabilities. We may hire and supervise third-party contractors to provide construction, engineering and various other services for properties we are managing on behalf of third-party clients. Depending upon (1) the terms of our contracts with third-party clients, which, for example, may place us in the position of a principal rather than an agent, or (2) the responsibilities we assume or are legally deemed to have assumed in the course of a client engagement (whether or not memorialized in a contract), we may be subjected to, or become liable for, claims for construction defects, negligent performance of work or other similar actions by third parties we do not control. Adverse outcomes of property management disputes or litigation could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations, particularly if we have not limited in our contracts the extent of damages to which we may be liable for the consequences of our actions, or if our liabilities exceed the amounts of the commercial third-party insurance that we carry. Moreover, our clients may seek to hold us accountable for the actions of contractors because of our role as property manager even if we have technically disclaimed liability as a legal matter, in which case we may find it commercially prudent to participate in a financial settlement for purposes of preserving the client relationship. Acting as a principal may also mean that we pay a contractor before we have been reimbursed by the client, which exposes us to additional risks of collection from the client in the event of an intervening bankruptcy or insolvency of the client. The reverse can occur as well, where a contractor we have paid files bankruptcy or commits fraud with the funds before completing a project for which we have paid it in part or in full. As part of our project management business, we are responsible for managing the various other contractors required for a project, including general contractors, in order to ensure that the cost of a project does not exceed the contract price and that the project is completed on time. In the event that one of the other contractors on the project does not or cannot perform as a result of bankruptcy or for some other reason, we may be responsible for any cost overruns as well as the consequences for late delivery. In the event that for whatever reason we have not accurately estimated our own costs of providing services under warranted or guaranteed cost contracts, we may lose money on such contracts until such time as we can legally terminate them. Page 13 of 113 We are required to maintain certain licenses to conduct our third-party property management business. The brokerage of real estate leasing transactions and property management require us to maintain licenses in various jurisdictions in which we operate and to comply with particular regulations. If we fail to maintain our licenses or conduct regulated activities without a license or in contravention of applicable regulations, we may be required to pay fines or return commissions. As a licensed real estate service provider and advisor in various jurisdictions, we may be subject to various due diligence, disclosure, standard-of-care, anti-money laundering and other obligations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Failure to fulfill these obligations could subject us to litigation from parties who leased properties we brokered or managed. We could become subject to claims by participants in real estate sales or other services claiming that we did not fulfill our obligations as a service provider or broker. This may include claims with respect to conflicts of interest where we are acting, or are perceived to be acting, for two or more clients with potentially contrary interests. Uninsured and underinsured losses may adversely affect our operations. We, or in certain instances, tenants at our properties, carry comprehensive commercial general liability, fire, extended coverage, business interruption, rental loss coverage and umbrella liability coverage on all of our properties and wind, flood and hurricane coverage on properties in areas where we believe such coverage is warranted, in each case with limits of liability that we deem adequate. Similarly, we are insured against the risk of direct physical damage in amounts we believe to be adequate to reimburse us, on a replacement basis, for costs incurred to repair or rebuild each property, including loss of rental income during the reconstruction period. We believe that our insurance coverage contains policy specifications and insured limits that are customary for similar properties, business activities and markets, and we believe our properties are adequately insured. We do not carry insurance for generally uninsured losses, including, but not limited to losses caused by riots, war or acts of God. In the event of substantial property loss, the insurance coverage may not be sufficient to pay the full current market value or current replacement cost of the property. In the event of an uninsured loss, we could lose some or all of our capital investment, cash flow and anticipated profits related to one or more properties. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors also might make it not feasible to use insurance proceeds to replace a property after it has been damaged or destroyed. Under such circumstances, the insurance proceeds we receive might not be adequate to restore our economic position with respect to such property. We may be subject to litigation, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We may be subject to litigation, including claims relating to our assets and operations that are otherwise in the ordinary course of business. Some of these claims may result in significant defense costs and potentially significant judgments against us, some of which we may not be insured against. We generally intend to vigorously defend ourselves against such claims. However, we cannot be certain of the ultimate outcomes of claims that may be asserted. Resolution of these types of matters against us may result in our having to pay significant fines, judgments, or settlements, which, if uninsured, or if the fines, judgments, and settlements exceed insured levels, would adversely impact our earnings and cash flows, thereby impacting our ability to service debt and make quarterly distributions to our stockholders. Certain litigation or the resolution of certain litigation may affect the availability or cost of some of our insurance coverage, which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations, expose us to increased risks that would be uninsured, and/or adversely impact our ability to attract officers and directors. If we are unable to satisfy the regulatory requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or if our disclosure controls or internal control over financial reporting is not effective, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could adversely affect the perception of our business and the trading price of our common stock. The design and effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not prevent all errors, misstatements or misrepresentations. Although management will continue to review the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, there can be no guarantee that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all control objectives all of the time. Deficiencies, including any material weakness, in our internal control over financial reporting which may occur in the future could result in misstatements of our results of operations, restatements of our financial statements, a decline in the trading price of our common stock, or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. Page 14 of 113 We depend on key personnel, each of whom would be difficult to replace. Our continued success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of certain key personnel including, but not limited to, James R. Heistand, our President and Chief Executive Officer, who would be difficult to replace. We cannot provide any assurance that he will remain employed by us. Our ability to retain Mr. Heistand, or to attract a suitable replacement should he leave, is dependent on the competitive nature of the employment market. The loss of services of Mr. Heistand could adversely affect our results of operations and slow our future growth. We have existing debt and refinancing risks that could affect our cost of operations. We currently have both fixed and variable rate indebtedness and may incur additional indebtedness in the future, including borrowings under our credit facilities, to finance possible acquisitions and for general corporate purposes. As a result, we are and expect to be subject to the risks normally associated with debt financing including: · that interest rates may rise; · that our cash flow will be insufficient to make required payments of principal and interest; · that we will be unable to refinance some or all of our debt; · that any refinancing will not be on terms as favorable as those of our existing debt; · that required payments on mortgages and on our other debt are not reduced if the economic performance of any property declines; · that debt service obligations will reduce funds available for distribution to our stockholders; · that any default on our debt, due to noncompliance with financial covenants or otherwise, could result in acceleration of those obligations; and · that we may be unable to refinance or repay the debt as it becomes due. An increase in interest rates would reduce our net income and funds from operations. We may not be able to refinance or repay debt as it becomes due which may force us to refinance or to incur additional indebtedness at higher rates and additional cost or, in the extreme case, to sell assets or seek protection from our creditors under applicable law. A lack of any limitation on our debt could result in our becoming more highly leveraged. Our governing documents do not limit the amount of indebtedness we may incur. Accordingly, our board of directors may incur additional debt and would do so, for example, if it were necessary to maintain our status as a REIT. We might become more highly leveraged as a result, and our financial condition, results of operations and cash available for distribution to stockholders might be negatively affected, and the risk of default on our indebtedness could increase. The cost and terms of mortgage financings may render the sale or financing of a property difficult or unattractive. The sale of a property subject to a mortgage may trigger pre-payment penalties, yield maintenance payments or make-whole payments to the lender, which would reduce the amount of gain or increase our loss on the sale of a property and could make the sale of a property less likely. Certain of our mortgages will have significant outstanding principal balances on their maturity dates, commonly known as "balloon payments." There is no assurance that we will be able to refinance such balloon payments on the maturity of the loans, which may force disposition of properties on disadvantageous terms or require replacement with debt with higher interest rates, either of which would have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Financial covenants could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. Our senior unsecured revolving credit facility and unsecured term loan contain restrictions on the amount of debt we may incur and other restrictions and requirements on our operations. These restrictions, as well as any additional restrictions to which we may become subject in connection with additional financings or refinancings, could restrict our ability to pursue business initiatives, effect certain transactions or make other changes to our business that may otherwise be beneficial to us, which could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, violations of these covenants could cause declaration of defaults under and acceleration of any related indebtedness, which would result in adverse consequences to our financial condition. Our senior unsecured revolving credit facility and unsecured term loan also contain cross-default provisions that give the lenders the right to declare a default if we are in default under other loans in excess of certain amounts. In the event of a default, we may be required to repay such debt with capital from other sources, which may not be available to us on attractive terms, or at all, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Page 15 of 113 Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect results of operations. The interest rate hedge instruments we use to manage some of our exposure to interest rate volatility involve risk, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect our results of operations. We depend on external sources of capital that are outside of our control, which may affect our ability to pursue strategic opportunities, refinance or repay our indebtedness and make distributions to our stockholders. We generally must distribute annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, subject to certain adjustments and excluding any net capital gain. Because of these distribution requirements, it is not likely that we will be able to fund all future capital needs from income from operations. As a result, when we engage in the development or acquisition of new properties or expansion or redevelopment of existing properties, we will continue to rely on third-party sources of capital, including lines of credit, collateralized or unsecured debt (both construction financing and permanent debt), and equity issuances. Our access to third-party sources of capital depends on a number of factors, including general market conditions, the market's view of the quality of our assets, the market's perception of our growth potential, our current debt levels and our current and expected future earnings. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain the financing necessary to fund our current or new developments or project expansions or our acquisition activities on terms favorable to us or at all. If we are unable to obtain a sufficient level of third party financing to fund our capital needs, our results of operations, financial condition and ability to make distributions to our stockholders may be adversely affected. We may amend our investment strategy and business policies without your approval. Our board of directors may change our investment strategy or any of our guidelines, financing strategy or leverage policies with respect to investments, acquisitions, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and distributions at any time without the consent of our stockholders, which could result in an investment portfolio with a different risk profile. A change in our strategy may increase our exposure to interest rate risk, default risk and real estate market fluctuations. These changes could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards is limited. As of December 31, 2012, we had net operating losses, or NOLs, of approximately $160.7 million for U.S. federal income tax purposes. These NOLs will expire at various times between 2018 and 2032. We have undergone an "ownership change" for purposes of Section 382 of the Code. An ownership change is, as a general matter, triggered by sales or acquisitions of our stock in excess of 50% on a cumulative basis during a three-year period by persons owning five percent or more of our total equity value. As a result of this ownership change, and subject to certain exceptions, we generally may utilize only approximately $2.8 million of our NOLs carryforwards derived prior to the ownership change to reduce our REIT taxable income (and therefore our distribution requirement) for a given taxable year. In addition, if we experience an additional ownership change during any subsequent three-year period, our future ability to utilize our NOLs may become further limited. Risks Related to our Status as a REIT Loss of our tax status as a real estate investment trust would have significant adverse consequences to us and the value of our securities. We believe that we qualify for taxation as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, and we plan to operate so that we can continue to meet the requirements for taxation as a REIT. To qualify as a REIT we must satisfy numerous requirements (some on an annual and quarterly basis) established under the highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code ("Code") applicable to REITs, which include: Page 16 of 113 · maintaining ownership of specified minimum levels of real estate related assets; · generating specified minimum levels of real estate related income; · maintaining certain diversity of ownership requirements with respect to our shares; and · distributing at least 90% of our taxable income on an annual basis. The distribution requirement noted above could adversely affect our ability to use earnings for improvements or acquisitions because funds distributed to stockholders will not be available for capital improvements to existing properties or for acquiring additional properties. Only limited judicial and administrative interpretations exist of the REIT rules. In addition, qualification as a REIT involves the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. If we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will be subject to federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at corporate rates. In addition, unless entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, we will be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which we failed to qualify. This treatment would reduce net earnings available for investment or distribution to stockholders because of the additional tax liability for the year or years involved. In addition, we would no longer be required to make distributions to our stockholders. To the extent that distributions to stockholders had been made based on our qualifying as a REIT, we might be required to borrow funds or to liquidate certain of our investments to pay the applicable tax. As a REIT, we have been and will continue to be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and property. If our operating partnership failed to qualify as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, we would cease to qualify as a REIT and suffer other adverse consequences. We believe that our operating partnership is properly treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. As a partnership, our operating partnership is not subject to federal income tax on its income. Instead, each of its partners, including us, is allocated, and may be required to pay tax with respect to, its share of our operating partnership's income. We cannot assure you, however, that the Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS, will not challenge the status of our operating partnership or any other subsidiary partnership in which we own an interest as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. If the IRS were successful in treating our operating partnership or any such other subsidiary partnership as an entity taxable as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would fail to meet the gross income tests and certain of the asset tests applicable to REITs and, accordingly, we would likely cease to qualify as a REIT. Also, the failure of our operating partnership or any subsidiary partnerships to qualify as a partnership would cause it to become subject to federal and state corporate income tax, which could reduce significantly the amount of cash available for debt service and for distribution to its partners, including us. REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan or cause us to finance our needs during unfavorable market conditions. We generally must distribute annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, subject to certain adjustments and excluding any net capital gain, in order for U.S. federal corporate income tax not to apply to earnings that we distribute. To the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we pay out to our stockholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under U.S. federal tax laws. We intend to make distributions to our stockholders to comply with the REIT requirements of the Code. From time to time, we may generate taxable income greater than our income for financial reporting purposes prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). In addition, differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash may occur. As a result, we may find it difficult or impossible to meet distribution requirements in certain circumstances. In particular, where we experience differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash, the requirement to distribute a substantial portion of our taxable income could cause us to (i) sell assets in adverse market conditions, (ii) borrow on unfavorable terms, (iii) distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions, capital expenditures or repayment of debt or (iv) make a taxable distribution of our common stock as part of a distribution in which stockholders may elect to receive our common stock or (subject to a limit measured as a percentage of the total distribution) cash, in order to comply with REIT requirements. These alternatives could increase our costs or reduce our equity. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to grow, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Page 17 of 113 Even if we qualify as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow. Even if we qualify for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain U.S. federal, state and local taxes on our income, property or net worth, including taxes on any undistributed income, tax on income from some activities conducted as a result of a foreclosure, and state or local income, property and transfer taxes. In addition, we could, in certain circumstances, be required to pay an excise or penalty tax (which could be significant in amount) in order to utilize one or more relief provisions under the Code to maintain our qualification as a REIT. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for the payment of our debt obligations and distributions to stockholders. Our taxable REIT subsidiary ("TRS"), will be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax on its net taxable income. Complying with REIT requirements may force us to forgo and/or liquidate otherwise attractive investment opportunities. To qualify as a REIT, we must ensure that we meet the REIT gross income tests annually and that at the end of each calendar quarter, at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified real estate assets. The remainder of our investment in securities (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our assets (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) can consist of the securities of any one issuer, and no more than 25% of the value of our total assets can be represented by securities of one or more TRSs. If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct the failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter or qualify for certain statutory relief provisions to avoid losing our REIT qualification and suffering adverse tax consequences. As a result, we may be required to liquidate from our portfolio or contribute to a TRS otherwise attractive investments in order to maintain our qualification as a REIT. These actions could have the effect of reducing our income and amounts available for distribution to our stockholders. In addition, we may be unable to pursue investments that would otherwise be advantageous to us in order to satisfy the source of income or asset diversification requirements for qualifying as a REIT. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to make, and, in certain cases, maintain ownership of, certain attractive investments. The requirements necessary to maintain our REIT status limit our ability to earn fee income at the REIT level, which causes us to conduct fee-generating activities through a TRS. The REIT provisions of the Code limits our ability to earn additional management fee and other fee income from joint ventures and third parties. Our aggregate gross income from fees and certain other non-qualifying sources cannot exceed 5% of our annual gross income. As a result, our ability to increase the amount of fee income we earn at the REIT level is limited and, therefore, we conduct fee-generating activities through a TRS. Any fee income we earn through a TRS would is subject to federal, state, and local income tax at regular corporate rates, which would reduce our cash available for distribution to stockholders. Our ownership of TRSs will be limited and our transactions with our TRSs will cause us to be subject to a 100% penalty tax on certain income or deductions if those transactions are not conducted on arm's length terms. A REIT may own up to 100% of the stock of one or more TRSs. A TRS may hold assets and earn income that would not be qualifying assets or income if held or earned directly by a REIT. Both the subsidiary and the REIT must jointly elect to treat the subsidiary as a TRS. A corporation of which a TRS directly or indirectly owns more than 35% of the voting power or value of the stock will automatically be treated as a TRS. Overall, no more than 25% of the value of a REIT's assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more TRSs. In addition, the rules applicable to TRSs limit the deductibility of interest paid or accrued by a TRS to its parent REIT to assure that the TRS is subject to an appropriate level of corporate taxation. The rules also impose a 100% excise tax on certain transactions involving a TRS that are not conducted on an arm's length basis. Our TRS will pay U.S. federal, state and local income tax on its taxable income. The after-tax net income of our TRSs will be available for distribution to us but generally is not required to be distributed. We anticipate that the aggregate value of the stock and securities of our TRS will be less than 25% of the value of our total assets (including the stock and securities of our TRS). Furthermore, we will monitor the value of our respective investments in our TRS for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the ownership limitations applicable to TRSs. We will scrutinize all of our transactions involving our TRS to ensure that they are entered into on arm's length terms to avoid incurring the 100% excise tax described above. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to comply with the 25% limitation discussed above or avoid application of the 100% excise tax discussed above. Page 18 of 113 Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates available for some dividends. The maximum tax rate applicable to income from "qualified dividends" payable to U.S. stockholders that are individuals, trusts and estates is 20% for taxable years beginning after 2012. Dividends payable by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for the reduced rates and will continue to be subject to tax at rates applicable to ordinary income. Although this legislation does not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends payable by REITs, the more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate qualified dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the shares of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the stock of REITs, including our stock. The tax imposed on REITs engaging in "prohibited transactions" may limit our ability to engage in transactions that would be treated as sales for federal income tax purposes. A REIT's net income from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% penalty tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property, held primarily for sale to tenants in the ordinary course of business. Although we do not intend to hold any properties that would be characterized as held for sale to tenants in the ordinary course of our business, unless a sale or disposition qualifies under certain statutory safe harbors, such characterization is a factual determination and no guarantee can be given that the IRS would agree with our characterization of our properties or that we will always be able to make use of the available safe harbors. There is a risk of changes in the tax law applicable to real estate investment trusts. Since the Internal Revenue Service, the United States Treasury Department and Congress frequently review federal income tax legislation, we cannot predict whether, when or to what extent new federal tax laws, regulations, interpretations or rulings will be adopted. Any of such legislative action may prospectively or retroactively modify our tax treatment and, therefore, may adversely affect taxation of us and/or our investors. Risks Associated with our Stock Limitations on the ownership of our common stock may preclude the acquisition or change of control of our Company. Certain provisions contained in our charter and bylaws and certain provisions of Maryland law may have the effect of discouraging a third party from making an acquisition proposal for us and may thereby inhibit a change of control. Provisions of our charter are designed to assist us in maintaining our qualification as a REIT under the Code by preventing concentrated ownership of our capital stock that might jeopardize REIT qualification. Among other things, these provisions provide that, if a transfer of our stock or a change in our capital structure would result in (1) any person (as defined in the charter) directly or indirectly acquiring beneficial ownership of more than 9.8% (in value or in number, whichever is more restrictive) of our outstanding equity stock excluding Excess Stock, (2) our outstanding shares being constructively or beneficially owned by fewer than 100 persons, or (3) our being "closely held" within the meaning of Section 856(h) of the Code, then: · any proposed transfer will be void from the beginning and we will not recognize such transfer; · we may institute legal proceedings to enjoin such transfer; · we will have the right to redeem the shares proposed to be transferred; and/or · the shares proposed to be transferred will be automatically converted into and exchanged for shares of a separate class of stock, the Excess Stock. Excess Stock has no dividend or voting rights but holders of Excess Stock do have certain rights in the event of our liquidation, dissolution or winding up. Our charter provides that we will hold the Excess Stock as trustee for the person or persons to whom the shares are ultimately transferred, until the time that the shares are retransferred to a person or persons in whose hands the shares would not be Excess Stock and certain price-related restrictions are satisfied. These provisions may have an anti-takeover effect by discouraging tender offers or purchases of large blocks of stock, thereby limiting the opportunity for stockholders to receive a premium for their shares over then-prevailing market prices. Under the terms of our charter, our Board of Directors has the authority to waive these ownership restrictions. Page 19 of 113 Furthermore, under our charter, our Board of Directors has the authority to classify and reclassify any of our unissued shares of capital stock into shares of capital stock with such preferences, rights, powers and restrictions as the Board of Directors may determine. The authorization and issuance of a new class of capital stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing someone from taking control of us, even if a change in control were in our stockholders' best interests. Maryland business statutes may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of us. Maryland law provides protection for Maryland corporations against unsolicited takeovers by limiting, among other things, the duties of the directors in unsolicited takeover situations. The duties of directors of Maryland corporations do not require them to (a) accept, recommend or respond to any proposal by a person seeking to acquire control of the corporation, (b) authorize the corporation to redeem any rights under, or modify or render inapplicable, any stockholders rights plan, (c) make a determination under the Maryland Business Combination Act, or (d) act or fail to act solely because of the effect of the act or failure to act may have on an acquisition or potential acquisition of control of the corporation or the amount or type of consideration that may be offered or paid to the stockholders in an acquisition. Moreover, under Maryland law the act of a director of a Maryland corporation relating to or affecting an acquisition or potential acquisition of control is not subject to any higher duty or greater scrutiny than is applied to any other act of a director. Maryland law also contains a statutory presumption that an act of a director of a Maryland corporation satisfies the applicable standards of conduct for directors under Maryland law. The Maryland Business Combination Act provides that unless exempted, a Maryland corporation may not engage in business combinations, including mergers, dispositions of 10 percent or more of its assets, certain issuances of shares of stock and other specified transactions, with an "interested stockholder" or an affiliate of an interested stockholder for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder became an interested stockholder, and thereafter unless specified criteria are met. An interested stockholder is generally a person owning or controlling, directly or indirectly, 10 percent or more of the voting power of the outstanding stock of the Maryland corporation. Market interest rates may have an effect on the value of our common stock. One of the factors that will influence the price of our common stock will be the dividend yield on our common stock (as a percentage of the price of our common stock) relative to market interest rates. An increase in market interest rates, which are currently at low levels relative to historical rates, may lead prospective purchasers of our common stock to expect a higher dividend yield and higher interest rates would likely increase our borrowing costs and potentially decrease funds available for distribution. Thus, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease. Our common stock is ranked junior to our series D preferred stock. Our common stock is ranked junior to our 8.00% Series D Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, $0.001 par value per share, or our series D preferred stock, with respect to dividends and upon dissolution. Holders of our common stock are not entitled to preemptive rights or other protections against dilution. We may in the future attempt to increase our capital resources by making additional offerings of equity securities, including additional classes or series of preferred stock, which would likely have preferences with respect to dividends or upon dissolution that are senior to our common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offering. Thus, our common stockholders bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the per share trading price of our common stock and diluting their interest in us. Page 20 of 113 The number of shares of our common stock available for future issuance or sale could adversely affect the per share trading price of our common stock and may be dilutive to current stockholders. Our charter authorizes our Board of Directors to, among other things, issue additional shares of capital stock without stockholder approval. We cannot predict whether future issuances or sales of shares of our common stock or the availability of shares for resale in the open market will decrease the per share trading price per share of our common stock. The issuance of substantial numbers of shares of our common stock in the public market, or upon exchange of common units of limited partnership interests in our operating partnership, or the perception that such issuances might occur, could adversely affect the per share trading price of our common stock. In addition, any such issuance could dilute our existing stockholders' interests in our company. The per share trading price of our common stock may decline significantly upon the sale of shares of our common stock pursuant to registration rights granted to the TPG Entities in connection with TPG Pantera's investment in us in May 2012. In particular, we have entered into a stockholders agreement with the TPG Entities pursuant to which the TPG Entities may at any time after June 5, 2013 (i) make up to three demands for registration and (ii) include the common stock they hold in any registration statement we file on account of any of our other security holders. The shares of common stock that may be registered on behalf of the TPG Entities, as described above, represent approximately 42.1% of our issued and outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2012. As a result, a substantial number of shares may be sold pursuant to the registration rights granted to the TPG Entities. The sale of such shares by the TPG Entities, or the perception that such a sale may occur, could materially and adversely affect the per share trading price of our common stock and could dilute our existing stockholders' interests in our company. The exchange of common units for common stock, the issuance of our common stock or common units in connection with future property, portfolio or business acquisitions and other issuances of our common stock could have an adverse effect on the per share trading price of our common stock. In addition, we may issue shares of our common stock or grant options, deferred incentive share units, restricted shares or other equity-based awards exercisable for or convertible or exchangeable into shares of our common stock under our recently adopted 2013 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan. Future issuances of shares of our common stock may be dilutive to existing stockholders. Future offerings of debt securities, which would be senior to our common stock upon liquidation, or preferred equity securities which may be senior to our common stock for purposes of dividend distributions or upon liquidation, may adversely affect the per share trading price of our common stock. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by making additional offerings of debt or equity securities (or causing our operating partnership to issue such debt securities), including medium-term notes, senior or subordinated notes and additional classes or series of preferred stock. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and shares of preferred stock or preferred units of partnership interest in our operating partnership and lenders with respect to other borrowings will be entitled to receive our available assets prior to distribution to the holders of our common stock. Additionally, any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common stock and may result in dilution to owners of our common stock. Other than the TPG Entities, holders of our common stock are not entitled to preemptive rights or other protections against dilution. Any shares of preferred stock or preferred units that we issue in the future could have a preference on liquidating distributions or a preference on dividend payments that could limit our ability pay dividends to the holders of our common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, our stockholders bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the per share trading price of our common stock and diluting their interest in us. Our ability to pay dividends is limited by the requirements of Maryland law. Our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is limited by the laws of Maryland. Under applicable Maryland law, a Maryland corporation generally may not make a distribution if, after giving effect to the distribution, the corporation would not be able to pay its debts as the debts become due in the usual course of business or the corporation's total assets would be less than the sum of its total liabilities plus, unless the corporation's charter permits otherwise, the amount that would be needed, if the corporation were dissolved at the time of the distribution, to satisfy the preferential rights upon dissolution of stockholders whose preferential rights are superior to those receiving the distribution. Accordingly, we generally may not make a distribution on our common stock if, after giving effect to the distribution, we would not be able to pay our debts as they become due in the usual course of business or our total assets would be less than the sum of our total liabilities plus, unless the terms of such class or series provide otherwise (and the terms of our series D preferred stock do not so provide otherwise), the amount that would be needed to satisfy the preferential rights upon dissolution of the holders of shares of any class or series of preferred stock (including our series D preferred stock) then outstanding, if any, with preferences upon dissolution senior to those of our common stock. Page 21 of 113 We may change our dividend policy. Future distributions will be declared and paid at the discretion of our Board of Directors and the amount and timing of distributions will depend upon cash generated by operating activities, our financial condition, capital requirements, annual distribution requirements under the REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, and such other factors as the our Board of Directors deems relevant. Our Board of Directors may change our dividend policy at any time, and there can be no assurance as to the manner in which future dividends will be paid or that the current dividend level will be maintained in future periods. Our senior unsecured revolving credit facility prohibits us from repurchasing shares of our common stock and may limit our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. Our senior unsecured revolving credit facility, which matures in March 2016, prohibits us from repurchasing any shares of our stock, including our common stock, during the term of the senior unsecured revolving credit facility. Under the unsecured revolving credit facility, our distributions may not exceed the greater of (i) 90% of our funds from operations, (ii) the amount required for us to qualify and maintain our status as a REIT or (iii) the amount required for us to avoid the imposition of income and excise taxes. As a result, if we do not generate sufficient funds from operations (as defined in our senior unsecured revolving credit facility) during the 12 months preceding any common stock dividend payment date, we would not be able to pay dividends to our common stockholders consistent with our past practice without causing a default under our senior unsecured revolving credit facility. In the event of such a default, we would be unable to borrow under our senior unsecured revolving credit facility, and any amounts we have borrowed thereunder could become due and payable. The price of our common stock may be volatile and may decline. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. In addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in share prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. These fluctuations in the stock market may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Among the factors that could affect the market price of our common stock are: · actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition; · changes in revenues or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts or actions taken by rating agencies with respect to our securities or those of other REITs; · the ability of our tenants to pay rent to us and meet their other obligations to us under current lease terms; · our ability to re-lease spaces as leases expire; · our ability to refinance our indebtedness as it matures; · any changes in our distribution policy; · any future issuances of equity securities; · strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; · general market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the real estate industry; and · domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Page 22 of 113 