ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this document, readers should carefully consider the following risk factors. Any of these risks or the occurrence of any one or more of the uncertainties described below could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and the performance of its business. The Company refers to itself as “we” or “our” in the following risk factors. Our performance is subject to risks inherent in owning real estate investments. Our investments are generally made in office properties. We are, therefore, generally subject to risks incidental to the ownership of real estate. These risks include: · changes in supply of or demand for office properties or customers for such properties in an area in which we own buildings; · the ongoing need for capital improvements; · increased operating costs, which may not necessarily be offset by increased rents, including insurance premiums, utilities and real estate taxes, due to inflation and other factors; · changes in tax, real estate and zoning laws; · changes in governmental rules and fiscal policies; and · civil unrest, acts of war, acts of God, including earthquakes, hurricanes and other natural disasters (which may result in uninsured losses) and other factors beyond our control. Should any of these events occur, our financial condition and our ability to make expected distributions to stockholders could be adversely affected. The economic conditions of our primary markets affect our operations. Substantially all of our properties are located in the Southeastern and Southwestern United States and, therefore, our financial condition and ability to make distributions to our stockholders is linked to economic conditions in these markets as well as the market for office space generally in these markets. A downturn in these markets, particularly increases in unemployment, may adversely affect our cash flows and ability to make distributions to stockholders. We face risks associated with property acquisitions. We have acquired in the past and intend to continue to pursue the acquisition of properties and portfolios of properties, including large portfolios that could increase our size and result in alterations to our capital structure. Our acquisition activities and their success are subject to the following risks: · the acquisition agreement will likely contain conditions to closing, including completion of due diligence investigations to our satisfaction or other conditions that are not within our control, which may not be satisfied; · we may be unable to finance acquisitions on favorable terms or at all; · acquired properties may fail to perform as expected; · the actual costs of repositioning or redeveloping acquired properties may be higher than our estimates; · acquired properties may be located in new markets where we face risks associated with an incomplete knowledge or understanding of the local market and a limited number of established business relationships in the area; · we may acquire properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, to the transferor with respect to unknown liabilities. As a result, if a claim were asserted against us based upon ownership of those properties, we might have to pay substantial sums to settle it, which could adversely affect our cash flow. Page 6 of 102 Competition for acquisitions may reduce the number of acquisition opportunities available to us and increase the costs of those acquisitions. We plan to continue to acquire properties as we are presented with attractive opportunities. We may face competition for acquisition opportunities from other investors, particularly those investors who can incur more leverage, and this competition may adversely affect us by subjecting us to the following risks: · an inability to acquire a desired property because of competition from other well-capitalized real estate investors, including publicly traded and privately held REITs, private real estate funds, domestic and foreign financial institutions, life insurance companies, sovereign wealth funds, pension trusts, partnerships and individual investors; and · an increase in the purchase price for such acquisition property, in the event we are able to acquire such desired property. Our business and operating results could be negatively affected if we are unable to integrate acquisitions successfully. Integration of acquisitions involves a number of significant risks, including the diversion of management’s attention to the assimilation of the operations of the acquired businesses or assets, difficulties in the integration of operations and systems; the inability to realize potential operating synergies; difficulties in the assimilation and retention of the personnel of the acquired companies; accounting, regulatory or compliance issues that could arise, including internal control over financial reporting; and challenges in retaining the customers of the combined businesses. Further, acquisitions may have a material adverse impact on our operating results if unanticipated expenses or charges to earnings were to occur, including unanticipated operating expenses and depreciation and amortization expenses over the useful lives of certain assets acquired, as well as costs related to potential impairment charges, assumed litigation and unknown liabilities. If we are unable to successfully integrate our recent and future acquisitions in a timely and cost-effective manner, our operating results could be negatively affected. Customer defaults could adversely affect our operations. Substantially all of our revenues and income come from rental income from real property. As such, our revenues and income could be adversely affected if a significant number of our customers defaulted under their lease obligations. Our ability to manage our assets is also subject to federal bankruptcy laws and state laws that limit creditors' rights and remedies available to real property owners to collect delinquent rents. If a customer becomes insolvent or bankrupt, we cannot be sure that we could recover the premises from the customer promptly or from a trustee or debtor-in-possession in any bankruptcy proceeding relating to that customer. We also cannot be sure that we would receive rent in the proceeding sufficient to cover our expenses with respect to the premises. If a customer becomes bankrupt, the federal bankruptcy code will apply and, in some instances, may restrict the amount and recoverability of our claims against the customer. A customer’s default on its obligations to us could adversely affect our financial condition and the cash we have available for distributions to our stockholders. Illiquidity of real estate may limit our ability to vary our portfolio. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid. Our ability to vary our portfolio by selling properties and buying new ones in response to changes in economic and other conditions may therefore be limited. In addition, the Internal Revenue Code limits our ability to sell our properties by imposing a penalty tax of 100% on the gain derived from prohibited transactions, which are defined as sales of property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of a trade or business. The frequency of sales and the holding period of the property sold are two primary factors in determining whether the property sold fits within this definition. These considerations may limit our opportunities to sell our properties. If we must sell an investment, we cannot assure you that we will be able to dispose of the investment in the time period we desire or that the sales price of the investment will recoup or exceed our cost for the investment, or that the penalty tax would not be assessed. Our current and future joint venture investments could be adversely affected by the capital markets, our lack of sole decision-making authority, our reliance on joint venture partners' financial condition and any disputes that may arise between us and our joint venture partners. Page 7 of 102 We may not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding the properties owned through joint ventures. Investments in joint ventures may, under certain circumstances, involve risks not present when a third party is not involved, including reliance on our joint venture partners and the possibility that joint venture partners might become bankrupt or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions, thus exposing us to liabilities in excess of our share of the investment. The funding of Parkway’s capital contributions may be dependent on proceeds from asset sales, credit facility advances and/or sales of equity securities. In limited cases, such as gross neglect, the Company can be terminated as the provider of certain fee-based services. Joint venture partners may have business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals and may be in a position to take actions contrary to our policies or objectives. Any disputes that may arise between us and joint venture partners may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses. Our properties are subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as environmental laws, state and local fire and safety requirements, building codes and land use regulations. Failure to comply with these requirements could subject us to governmental fines or private litigant damage awards. We believe that our properties are currently in material compliance with all applicable regulatory requirements. However, we do not know whether existing requirements will change or whether future requirements, including any requirements that may emerge from pending or future climate change legislation, will require us to make significant unanticipated expenditures that will adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our third party management and leasing agreements are subject to the risk of termination and non-renewal. Our third party management and leasing agreements, including but not limited to those acquired through our 2011 combination with Eola Capital LLC and certain of its affiliates, are subject to the risk of possible termination under certain circumstances, including our failure to perform as required under these agreements, and to the risk of non-renewal by the property owner upon expiration or renewal on terms less favorable to us than the current terms. We estimate that management and leasing agreements representing approximately 62.6 percent of our 2011 gross fee revenues expire or are contractually terminable prior to December 31, 2012. Many of the management and leasing agreements which expire or are contractually terminable prior to December 30, 2012 will automatically renew if written notice is not received by the Company prior to the termination date. If management and leasing agreements are terminated, or are not renewed upon expiration, our expected revenues will decrease and the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected. If management and leasing agreements are terminated, or not renewed, and consequently the revenues from the management business decline, we will not be entitled to any refund of the consideration paid in connection with the Eola combination. We can provide no assurance that any of our management and leasing agreements will be renewed upon the expiration of the current term or otherwise will not be terminated. Uninsured and underinsured losses may adversely affect operations. We, or in certain instances, customers of our properties, carry commercial general liability, fire and extended coverage insurance with respect to our properties. This coverage has policy specifications and insured limits that we believe are customarily carried for similar properties. We plan to obtain similar coverage for properties we acquire in the future. However, certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes and floods, may be either uninsurable or not economically insurable. Should a property sustain damage, we may incur losses due to insurance deductibles, to co-payments on insured losses or to uninsured losses. In the event of a substantial property loss, the insurance coverage may not be sufficient to pay the full current market value or current replacement cost of the property. In the event of an uninsured loss, we could lose some or all of our capital investment, cash flow and anticipated profits related to one or more properties. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations, and other factors also might make it not feasible to use insurance proceeds to replace a property after it has been damaged or destroyed. Under such circumstances, the insurance proceeds we receive might not be adequate to restore our economic position with respect to such property. We have existing debt and refinancing risks that could affect our cost of operations. We currently have both fixed and variable rate indebtedness and may incur indebtedness in the future, including borrowings under our credit facilities, to finance possible acquisitions and for general corporate purposes. As a result, we are and expect to be subject to the risks normally associated with debt financing including: · that interest rates may rise; Page 8 of 102 · that our cash flow will be insufficient to make required payments of principal and interest; · that we will be unable to refinance some or all of our debt; · that any refinancing will not be on terms as favorable as those of the existing debt; · that required payments on mortgages and on our other debt are not reduced if the economic performance of any property declines; · that debt service obligations will reduce funds available for distribution to our stockholders; · that any default on our debt, due to noncompliance with financial covenants or otherwise, could result in acceleration of those obligations; and · that we may be unable to refinance or repay the debt as it becomes due. An increase in interest rates would reduce our net income and funds from operations. We may not be able to refinance or repay debt as it becomes due which may force us to refinance or to incur additional indebtedness at higher rates and additional cost or, in the extreme case, to sell assets or seek protection from our creditors under applicable law. A lack of any limitation on our debt could result in our becoming more highly leveraged. Our governing documents do not limit the amount of indebtedness we may incur. Accordingly, our Board of Directors may incur additional debt and would do so, for example, if it were necessary to maintain our status as a REIT. We might become more highly leveraged as a result, and our financial condition and cash available for distribution to stockholders might be negatively affected and the risk of default on our indebtedness could increase. The cost and terms of mortgage financings may render the sale or financing of a property difficult or unattractive. The sale of a property subject to a mortgage may trigger pre-payment penalties, yield maintenance payments or make-whole payments to the lender, which would reduce the amount of gain or increase our loss on the sale of a property and could make the sale of a property less likely. Certain of our mortgages will have significant outstanding principal balances on their maturity dates, commonly known as "balloon payments." There is no assurance that we will be able to refinance such balloon payments on the maturity of the loans, which may force disposition of properties on disadvantageous terms or require replacement with debt with higher interest rates, either of which would have an adverse impact on our financial performance and ability to pay distributions to investors. If the economic downturn continues in the long-term, our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. In the U.S., market and economic conditions continue to be challenging with tighter credit conditions and modest growth. While recent economic data reflects a stabilization of the economy and credit markets, the cost and availability of credit may continue to be adversely affected. Furthermore, deteriorating economic conditions including business layoffs, downsizing, industry slowdowns and other similar factors that affect our customers could negatively impact commercial real estate fundamentals and result in lower occupancy, lower rental rates and declining values in our real estate portfolio. The timing of changes in occupancy levels tends to lag the timing of changes in overall economic activity and employment levels. Additionally, the economic situation could have an impact on our lenders or customers, causing them to fail to meet their obligations to us. No assurances can be given that the effects of the current economic conditions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may amend our investment strategy and business policies without your approval. Our Board of Directors may change our investment strategy or any of our guidelines, financing strategy or leverage policies with respect to investments, acquisitions, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and distributions at any time without the consent of our stockholders, which could result in an investment portfolio with a different risk profile. A change in our strategy may increase our exposure to interest rate risk, default risk and real estate market fluctuations. These changes could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Page 9 of 102 Loss of our tax status as a real estate investment trust would have significant adverse consequences to us and the value of our securities. We believe that we qualify for taxation as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, and we plan to operate so that we can continue to meet the requirements for taxation as a REIT. To qualify as a REIT we must satisfy numerous requirements (some on an annual and quarterly basis) established under the highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code (“Code”) applicable to REITs, which include: · maintaining ownership of specified minimum levels of real estate related assets; · generating specified minimum levels of real estate related income; · maintaining certain diversity of ownership requirements with respect to our shares; and · distributing at least 90% of our taxable income on an annual basis. The distribution requirement noted above could adversely affect our ability to use earnings for improvements or acquisitions because funds distributed to stockholders will not be available for capital improvements to existing properties or for acquiring additional properties. Only limited judicial and administrative interpretations exist of the REIT rules. In addition, qualification as a REIT involves the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. If we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will be subject to federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at corporate rates. In addition, unless entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, we will be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which we failed to qualify. This treatment would reduce net earnings available for investment or distribution to stockholders because of the additional tax liability for the year or years involved. In addition, we would no longer be required to make distributions to our stockholders. To the extent that distributions to stockholders had been made based on our qualifying as a REIT, we might be required to borrow funds or to liquidate certain of our investments to pay the applicable tax. As a REIT, we have been and will continue to be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and property. The requirements necessary to maintain our REIT status may limit our ability to earn additional fee income at the REIT level, which may cause us to conduct fee-generating activities through a taxable REIT subsidiary. The REIT provisions of the Code may limit our ability to earn additional management fee and other fee income from joint ventures and third parties. Our aggregate gross income from fees and certain other non-qualifying sources cannot exceed 5% of our annual gross income. As a result, our ability to increase the amount of fee income we earn at the REIT level may be limited, and we may have to conduct fee-generating activities through a taxable REIT subsidiary. Any fee income we earn through a taxable REIT subsidiary would be subject to federal, state, and local income tax at regular corporate rates, which would reduce our cash available for distribution to stockholders. There is a risk of changes in the tax law applicable to real estate investment trusts. Since the Internal Revenue Service, the United States Treasury Department and Congress frequently review federal income tax legislation, we cannot predict whether, when or to what extent new federal tax laws, regulations, interpretations or rulings will be adopted. Any of such legislative action may prospectively or retroactively modify our tax treatment and, therefore, may adversely affect taxation of us and/or our investors. Limitations on the ownership of our common stock may preclude the acquisition or change of control of our Company. Certain provisions contained in our charter and bylaws and certain provisions of Maryland law may have the effect of discouraging a third party from making an acquisition proposal for us and may thereby inhibit a change of control. Provisions of our charter are designed to assist us in maintaining our qualification as a REIT under the Code by preventing concentrated ownership of our capital stock that might jeopardize REIT qualification. Among other things, these provisions provide that, if a transfer of our stock or a change in our capital structure would result in (1) any person (as defined in the charter) directly or indirectly acquiring beneficial ownership of more than 9.8% (in value or in number, whichever is more restrictive) of our outstanding equity stock excluding Excess Stock, (2) our outstanding shares being constructively or beneficially owned by fewer than 100 persons, or (3) our being "closely held" within the meaning of Section 856(h) of the Code, then: Page 10 of 102 · any proposed transfer will be void from the beginning and we will not recognize such transfer; · we may institute legal proceedings to enjoin such transfer; · we will have the right to redeem the shares proposed to be transferred; and · the shares proposed to be transferred will be automatically converted into and exchanged for shares of a separate class of stock, the Excess Stock. Excess Stock has no dividend or voting rights but holders of Excess Stock do have certain rights in the event of our liquidation, dissolution or winding up. Our charter provides that we will hold the Excess Stock as trustee for the person or persons to whom the shares are ultimately transferred, until the time that the shares are retransferred to a person or persons in whose hands the shares would not be Excess Stock and certain price-related restrictions are satisfied. These provisions may have an anti-takeover effect by discouraging tender offers or purchases of large blocks of stock, thereby limiting the opportunity for stockholders to receive a premium for their shares over then-prevailing market prices. Under the terms of our charter, our Board of Directors has the authority to waive these ownership restrictions. Furthermore, under our charter, the Board of Directors has the authority to classify and reclassify any of our unissued shares of capital stock into shares of capital stock with such preferences, rights, powers and restrictions as the Board of Directors may determine. The authorization and issuance of a new class of capital stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing someone from taking control of us, even if a change in control were in our stockholders' best interests. There may be future dilution of our common stock, and resales of our common stock in the public market following a stock offering that may cause the market price for our common stock to fall. Our Charter authorizes our Board of Directors to, among other things, issue additional shares of capital stock without stockholder approval. We may issue common stock, preferred stock or securities convertible or exchangeable into equity securities to raise additional capital. Holders of our common stock have no preemptive rights that entitle them to purchase their pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series. Accordingly, the issuance of any additional shares of common or preferred stock or convertible securities could be substantially dilutive to existing holders of our common stock. Furthermore, the resale by stockholders of our common stock in the public market following any offering could have the effect of depressing the market price for our common stock. At December 31, 2011, 21,995,536 shares of our common stock and 5,421,296 shares of our Series D preferred stock were issued and outstanding. The price of our common stock is volatile and may decline. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. In addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in share prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. These broad market fluctuations have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Among the factors that could affect the market price of our common stock are: · actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition; · changes in revenues or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts or actions taken by rating agencies with respect to our securities or those of other REITs; · the ability of our tenants to pay rent to us and meet their other obligations to us under current lease terms; · our ability to re-lease spaces as leases expire; · our ability to refinance our indebtedness as it matures; Page 11 of 102 · any changes in our distribution policy; · any future issuances of equity securities; · strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; · general market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the real estate industry; and · domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance. Maryland business statutes may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of us. Maryland law provides protection for Maryland corporations against unsolicited takeovers by limiting, among other things, the duties of the directors in unsolicited takeover situations. The duties of directors of Maryland corporations do not require them to (a) accept, recommend or respond to any proposal by a person seeking to acquire control of the corporation, (b) authorize the corporation to redeem any rights under, or modify or render inapplicable, any stockholders rights plan, (c) make a determination under the Maryland Business Combination Act, or (d) act or fail to act solely because of the effect of the act or failure to act may have on an acquisition or potential acquisition of control of the corporation or the amount or type of consideration that may be offered or paid to the stockholders in an acquisition. Moreover, under Maryland law the act of a director of a Maryland corporation relating to or affecting an acquisition or potential acquisition of control is not subject to any higher duty or greater scrutiny than is applied to any other act of a director. Maryland law also contains a statutory presumption that an act of a director of a Maryland corporation satisfies the applicable standards of conduct for directors under Maryland law. The Maryland Business Combination Act provides that unless exempted, a Maryland corporation may not engage in business combinations, including mergers, dispositions of 10 percent or more of its assets, certain issuances of shares of stock and other specified transactions, with an "interested stockholder" or an affiliate of an interested stockholder for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder became an interested stockholder, and thereafter unless specified criteria are met. An interested stockholder is generally a person owning or controlling, directly or indirectly, 10 percent or more of the voting power of the outstanding stock of the Maryland corporation. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 