risk factors. Use of this system can result in important cost-effective improvements in diabetic care, coronary, cerebrovascular and heart failure events, improvements that have been verified by empirical health and cost outcomes. The ohms|cvd® system continuously monitors the care process, and thus, results are reported as outcomes. At November 30, 2007, we had contracts with the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services and 4 health plans to provide disease management services in multiple health plan markets in 4 states. The number of members under contract was as follows: At November 30, 2007 2006 2005 Approximate members under contract 725,000 718,000 1,094,000 5 At November 30, 2007, of the approximately 725,000 plan members under contract, we had approximately 694,000 commercial members and 31,000 Medicare Advantage members. Medicare Demonstration Projects The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”) selected us to participate in two demonstration projects: • Medicare Coordinated Care Demonstration (“MCCD”); and • BIPA Medicare Disease Management Demonstration CMS is a federal agency within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. CMS runs the Medicare and Medicaid programs – two national health care programs that benefit millions of Americans. CMS, with the Departments of Labor and Treasury, helps millions of Americans and small companies get and keep health insurance coverage, and eliminate discrimination based on health status for people buying health insurance. CMS spends billions of dollars a year buying health care services for beneficiaries of Medicare, Medicaid and SCHIP. CMS among other things: • assures that the Medicaid, Medicare and SCHIP programs are properly run by its contractors and state agencies; • establishes policies for paying health care providers; • conducts research on the effectiveness of various methods of health care management, treatment, and financing; and • assesses the quality of health care facilities and services and takes enforcement actions as appropriate. Medicare Coordinated Care Demonstration In fiscal 2002, we received a contract award to participate in the Medicare MCCD project. Our ohms|cad® program is the only one under this demonstration that will be evaluated specifically for management of CAD. CMS designed MCCD to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of reimbursing disease management services in the Medicare fee-for-service model. In accordance with the Balanced Budget Act of 1997, which mandated the demonstration, CMS “... may issue regulations to implement, on a permanent basis, the components of the demonstration projects that are proven to be cost-effective for the Medicare program.” Under the award, we are implementing our ohms|cad® disease management technology in a controlled randomized study of Medicare beneficiaries who have been diagnosed previously with CAD. Patient enrollment in California commenced in early 2002. As a result of our success in the initial enrollment stage of the project, CMS authorized doubling the patient base of the project with commensurate remuneration. This project was originally scheduled to end in January 2006 but has been extended by CMS through June 30, 2008. In January, based upon positive results to date, CMS notified the Company of an additional 2 year extension of this project through June 30, 2010. BIPA Medicare Disease Management Demonstration On October 23, 2002, CMS selected QMed, Inc., PacifiCare Health Systems, Inc., with its subsidiary, Prescription Solutions, and Alere Medical, Inc. – operating jointly as “HeartPartners” – to participate in its BIPA Disease Management Demonstration Project. 6 The HeartPartners Program provided disease management services and a comprehensive tiered prescription drug plan for chronically ill Medicare fee-for-service beneficiaries suffering from congestive heart failure. The program also addressed the significant co-morbidities of coronary artery disease and diabetes. PacifiCare Health Systems, Inc. notified CMS that PacifiCare intended to terminate this project not later than February 28, 2006 and CMS agreed to allow PacifiCare to terminate this contract effective February 28, 2006. This termination resulted in a reduction in disease management revenue of approximately $800,000 in fiscal year 2007 as compared to fiscal year 2006 and $2.7 million in fiscal year 2006 as compared to fiscal year 2005. Discontinued Operations As a result of the Medicare Modernization Act of 2003 (MMA), new business opportunities were created by the creation of Special Needs Plans for chronically ill Medicare beneficiaries. We entered this market through our wholly owned subsidiary QMedCare, Inc. QMedCare, Inc. is the sole investor in QMedCare Dakota, LLC, a company specifically formed to administer a Medicare Advantage Coordinated Care Special Needs Plan for DAKOTACARE, a health maintenance organization in South Dakota. The Special Needs Plan was marketed as HeartLine Plus and provided exclusive health coverage for heart and stroke patients. This plan operated as a strategic alliance between QMedCare Dakota, LLC and DAKOTACARE. The goal of this alliance was to reduce disease complications, hospitalizations, and emergency room visits for members, and to improve their quality of life. As part of its initiatives, QMedCare, Inc. established a Captive Insurance Company in South Carolina, LakeShore Captive Insurance Company, to provide reinsurance for the Special Needs Plan in South Dakota. Through a retrocessional reinsurance agreement with Ace American Insurance Company and its related agreements with DAKOTACARE, effective January 1, 2006 through January 1, 2008, LakeShore Captive Insurance Company assumes 100% of the risk associated with the operations of the Special Needs Plan in South Dakota. We reduced our exposure by insuring levels of coverage through reinsurance in excess of the first $200,000 of loss to a limit of $2,000,000 arising from claims by any one original insured. Upon termination of the agreement, the underlying policies in force at the time of the reinsurance coverage termination continue during the run-off period until they expire. On November 1, 2007, Lakeshore Captive Insurance Company ceased its underwriting activities as it was unable to meet its current and future capital requirements. On March 7, 2008, Lakeshore Capitve Insurance Company executed a settlement agreement with DAKOTACARE limiting it and its parent and affiliates liabilities associated with all activities of the South Dakota SNP to $750,000. This settlement amount will be funded by Lakeshore Captive Insurance. Subsequent to the settlement payment, Lakeshore will file for dissolution with the State of South Carolina. QMedCare of New Jersey, Inc. was incorporated in January 2006. This organization is a licensed Health Maintenance Organization in certain counties in New Jersey established for the purpose of operating a Medicare Special Needs Plan designed specifically for Medicare beneficiaries suffering from certain chronic conditions. The Company commenced enrollment in January 2007. Due to capital restrictions imposed on the Parent Company by its South Dakota operations, the Company, together with the New Jersey Department of Banking and Insurance and CMS, determined to conclude the operations of QMedCare of New Jersey, Inc. effective in November 2007. QMedCare of New Jersey, Inc. is currently winding down its operations. Positive Directions, Inc. Positive Directions, Inc. is a wholly owned subsidiary of QMed, Inc. In May of 2005, QMed, Inc. acquired Positive Directions, Inc., (formerly Health e Monitoring, Inc.), a privately owned firm offering a comprehensive program for healthy weight and lifestyle management. In October 2005, QMed, Inc. acquired all of the assets of Disease Management Technologies, Inc. (“DMT”). DMT has developed a website for a health and wellness program. 7 Its program focuses on the role of wellness and prevention to establish healthy lifestyle habits, dietary and nutrition education, exercise regimens and behavioral modifications. QMed, Inc. will incorporate this program as part of its disease management product offerings. Business Strategy Our strategy is to sell, merge or continue as a DM service Company. In the event we are successful, we will (1) obtain adequate financing through various alternatives; (2) pursue contract opportunities with new health plans to provide disease management services; (3) add disease states to our platform; and (4) pursue other opportunities within the healthcare industry. We anticipate that we will utilize our medical information-communication technologies to gain and maintain competitive advantage in delivering care coordination and its narrower subset, disease management services. Marketing We market our disease management services to health plans, large physician practice groups, and governmental agencies through our sales staff. A key to the marketing of our services is the relationships we develop with providers, physicians and patients. QMed builds the critical links among them that result in improved patient outcomes and reduced costs. We have developed a comprehensive Medicare strategy, and we project that a large portion of our future business will be in contracts with the federal and state governments. In our current Medicare projects, our relationships with physicians have given us a key advantage in identifying patients for the projects. We will continue to promote these relationships, as they are critical to patient enrollment. Contracting efforts are conducted and coordinated by senior management personnel, with the aid, where appropriate, of certain independent consultants. We generally pursue business opportunities through the traditional competitive process where a Request for Proposals (“RFP”) or a Request for Qualifications (“RFQ”) is issued by a managed care, employer or government organization, to which a number of companies respond. We utilize demographic and cost of service data from the organization as well as statistical information to conduct an initial cost analysis to determine program feasibility. As part of our sales efforts, management meets with appropriate personnel from the organization making the request to best determine the organization’s needs. In the RFQ process, the requesting agency selects a firm it believes is the most qualified to provide the requested services and then negotiates the terms of the contract with that firm, including the price at which its services are to be provided. Competition We believe ohms|cvd® offers a unique solution for cardiovascular disease management. However, there are several entities, including pharmaceutical companies, pharmacy benefit managers and independent companies that are pursuing disease management, which we consider to be competition. We believe we have competitive advantages because our clinical platform links the physician, patient and nurse to a coordinated plan of care therefore improving adherence to evidence-based medicine and reducing “gaps in care”. We have a specialty field management team dedicated to working directly with physicians and their office staff to promote the benefits of our disease management program. The entire management system and its components are proprietary and patented. We have documented improvements, for a health plan customer, in its HEDIS (Health Plan Employer Data and Information Set) audit, a competitive advantage for each customer, and the financial and clinical outcomes for our programs. However, we cannot assure you that we can compete effectively with these other entities in the marketplace. 8 Competition may increase and such competition could come from companies that are considerably larger and have greater financial and marketing resources. Consolidation has been, and may continue to be, an important factor in all aspects of the health- care industry. We cannot assure you that we can effectively compete with companies formed as a result of industry consolidation or that we can retain existing customers if they are acquired by other health plans which already have or are not interested in health and care support programs. Research and Development In fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, we expended approximately $2,096,000, $1,558,000 and $1,323,000 respectively, for research and development. During these years, research and development was primarily focused on the development of patient care programs and advanced algorithms which coordinate care more rigorously and cost-effectively, and systems which improve our patient out-reach capabilities. Patent Protection and Proprietary Information We maintain a policy of seeking patent protection in the United States and other countries in connection with certain elements of our technology. Our Monitor One technology has been granted patents in the United States (Patent No. 4679144), Canada (Patent No. 1281081), and Spain (Patent No. 547040). We received a U.S. patent for the nDx technology on March 29, 1994 (Patent No. 5299119) and a patent for the ohms|cvd® system (Patent No. 5,724,580) on March 3, 1998. Certain patents relating to our technology began expiring in 2004. In October 2006, QMed filed an application for a patent for certain elements of our technology related to the collection of medical information and its identification in relation to patient diagnoses. The patent application is currently pending. The patent laws of foreign countries may differ from those of the United States as to the patentability of our products and, accordingly the degree of protection afforded by the pendency or issuance of foreign patents may be different than the protection afforded under corresponding United States patents. There can be no assurance that patents will be obtained in foreign jurisdictions with respect to our products or that the United States patents and any foreign patents will significantly protect or be commercially beneficial to us. We do not intend to rely solely on patent protection for our proprietary technology. We also rely upon trade secrets, copyright protection, confidentiality agreements with employees, know-how, expertise, and lead-time to attain and maintain our competitive position. To the extent that we rely upon these measures, there can be no assurance that others might not independently develop similar technology or that secrecy will not be breached. We sold the patent for the nDx technology in October 2007 as part of the sale of the medical equipment business to Innovative Diagnostics for $230,000 in cash. See Note 1 – Discontinued Operations. Privacy Issues Because our applications and services are utilized to transmit and manage highly sensitive and confidential health information, the security and confidentiality concerns of our customers and their patients are a primary concern. In order to enable our applications and services to transmit sensitive and confidential medical information, we utilize advanced technologies designed to ensure a high degree of security. These technologies generally include: • security that requires a password to access our systems; • user access restrictions that allow our customers to determine the individuals who will have access to data and what level of access each individual will have; • encryption of data relating to our applications and services; and • a mechanism for preventing outsiders from improperly accessing private data resources on our internal network and our applications commonly referred to as a “firewall.” 9 Our customers also implement their own procedures to protect the confidentiality of information being transferred into and out of their computer network. Despite these efforts, it is not possible to assure 100% data security. Internally, we work to ensure the safe handling of confidential data by employees by: • using individual user names and passwords for each employee handling electronic data; and • requiring each employee to sign an agreement to comply with all company policies including our policy regarding handling confidential information. We monitor proposed regulations that might affect our applications and services, in order to ensure that we are in compliance with such regulations when and if they are affected. Government Regulation HEALTHCARE REGULATION. As a participant in the healthcare industry, our operations and relationships are subject to regulation by federal and state laws and regulations and enforcement by federal and state governmental agencies. Sanctions may be imposed for violation of these laws. We believe our operations are in substantial compliance with existing laws that are material to our operations. The cost of complying with our contractual privacy obligations has not, to date, had a material negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. In 2005, health plans, most health-care providers and certain other entities were required to comply with federal security regulations issued pursuant to HIPAA, which require the use of administrative, physician, and technical safeguards to protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of electronic individually-identifiable health information. FDA REGULATION. The Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, generally has the authority to regulate medical devices including computer applications when devices are indicated, labeled or intended to be used in the diagnosis of disease or other conditions, or in the cure, mitigation, treatment or prevention of disease, or are intended to affect the structure or function of the body. We do not believe that any of our current services are subject to FDA regulation as medical devices, however, expansion of our application and service offerings could subject us to FDA regulation. Our products, to the extent they may be deemed “medical devices,” are regulated by the FDA under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetics Act (the “FDCA”) and related regulations. All medical devices sold in interstate commerce are subject to FDA clearance. Our monitors were subject to pre-market notification (510(k)), pursuant to which the FDA determines whether a new medical product is “substantially equivalent” to a product that was on the market prior to May 28, 1976. Products found to be “substantially equivalent” to those products may thereafter be sold. The FDA has the authority, which it has not yet exercised, to issue performance standards for the type of monitors manufactured by us. Regulations by the FDA, known as Good Manufacturing Practices (“GMP”), provide standards for manufacturing processes, facilities, and record-keeping requirements with which our contract manufacturers and we must also comply. We believe that the manufacturing and quality control procedures employed by us and our contract manufacturers meet the GMP requirements. If the FDA should determine that our monitors were not manufactured in accordance with GMP’s, it has the authority to order us to cease production and could require us to recall products already sold by us. In addition, any facilities used to manufacture or assemble our products will be subject to inspection by the FDA at least biannually. 10 The FDCA is not the exclusive source of regulation of medical devices and, by its terms, allows state and local authorities to adopt more stringent regulations for medical devices. REGULATION OF THE INTERNET. Laws and regulations applicable to communications or commerce over the Internet may be adopted covering user privacy, pricing, content, copyright, distribution, and characteristics and quality of products and services. In addition, some states or foreign countries could apply existing laws concerning issues such as property ownership, sales tax, libel, and personal privacy to transactions conducted over the Internet. Additional laws or regulations or application of laws to transactions over the Internet could require us to change our operations and/or increase our cost of doing business. To our knowledge and other than what we have described in this report and other than occupational health and safety laws and labor laws which are generally applicable to most companies, our products are not subject to governmental regulation by any federal, state or local agencies that would affect the manufacture, sale or use of our products. We cannot, of course, predict what sort of regulations of this type may be imposed in the future, but we do not anticipate any unusual difficulties in complying with governmental regulations that may be adopted in the future. Insurance We maintain managed care errors and omissions, product liability, directors and officers, reinsurance, and general liability insurance for our locations and operations. While we believe our insurance policies to be adequate in amount and coverage for our current operations, there can be no assurance that coverage is sufficient to cover all future claims. In recent years, the cost of liability and other forms of insurance have increased significantly. There is no assurance that such insurance will continue to be available in adequate amounts or at reasonable costs. Our liability insurance coverage provides for certain deductible levels to be paid by us. We also maintain property and workers compensation insurance for each of our locations with commercial carriers on relatively standard commercial terms and conditions. Employees We had 28 employees as of November 30, 2007, none of which are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. We believe our relations with employees are good. Executive Officers of the Registrant The following sets forth certain information concerning our executive officers as of January 31, 2008: Officer Age Position with the Company Jane Murray 45 President, Chief Executive Officer and Director William T. Schmitt, Jr., CPA 47 Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer Glenn J. Alexander, CPA 41 Vice President of Finance, Controller and Principal Accounting Officer 11 Item 1A. Risk Factors. See Management’s Discussion and Analysis and Risk Factors contained later in this report. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. There are no unresolved staff comments. Item 