Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Investors should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all other information contained in this Annual Report before making investment decisions with respect to our common stock. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business in the future. We do business in a highly competitive industry. Our business is largely in a highly competitive worldwide industry, with relatively low barriers to competitive entry. We compete principally on the basis of product performance, quality, reliability, depth of product line, customer service, technological innovation, design, delivery time and price. The industry in which we operate has become increasingly concentrated and globalized in recent years and our major competitors, some of which are larger than Bel, have significant financial resources and technological capabilities. Our backlog figures may not be reliable indicators. Many of the orders that comprise our backlog may be delayed, accelerated or canceled by customers without penalty. Customers may on occasion double order from multiple sources to ensure timely delivery when leadtimes are particularly long. Customers often cancel orders when business is weak and inventories are excessive. Therefore, we cannot be certain that the amount of our backlog equals or exceeds the level of orders that will ultimately be delivered. Our results of operations could be adversely impacted if customers cancel a material portion of orders in our backlog. There are several factors which can cause us to lower our prices or otherwise cause our margins to suffer. a) The average selling prices for our products tend to decrease rapidly over their life cycles, and customers are increasingly putting pressure on suppliers to lower prices even when production costs are increasing. Our profits suffer if we are not able to reduce our costs of production, induce technological innovations as sales prices decline, or pass through cost increases to customers. b) Any drop in demand or increase in supply of our products could cause a dramatic drop in our average sales prices which in turn could result in a decrease in our gross margins. A shift in product mix could also have a favorable or unfavorable impact on our gross margins, depending upon the underlying raw material content and labor requirements of the associated products. c) Increased competition from low cost suppliers around the world has put further pressures on pricing. We continually strive to lower our costs, negotiate better pricing for components and raw materials and improve our operating efficiencies. Profit margins will be materially and adversely impacted if we are not able to reduce our costs of production or introduce technological innovations when sales prices decline. In the PRC, we are challenged to match availability of workers and maintain leadtimes in line with customer demand for certain of our products, which has been highly volatile in recent years. This volatility can materially adversely affect Bel’s results. In the PRC, the availability of labor is cyclical and is significantly affected by the migration of workers in relation to the annual Lunar New Year holiday as well as economic conditions in the PRC. In addition, we have little visibility into the ordering habits of our customers and can be subjected to large and unpredictable variations in demand for our products. Accordingly, we must continually recruit and train new workers to replace those lost to attrition each year and to address peaks in demand that may occur from time to time. These recruiting and training efforts and related inefficiencies, as well as overtime required in order to meet demand, can add volatility to the costs incurred by the Company for labor in the PRC. In 2011, we experienced a softening in customer demand for certain of our products, which resulted in underutilized capacity and lower gross margins, as our fixed costs had a lower absorption rate. After the 2012 Lunar New Year holiday, there was an increase in customer demand which resulted in the hiring and training of new workers and related inefficiencies. While Bel was not significantly impacted by this volatility in 2013, it remains as a potential risk for future periods. We are dependent on our ability to develop new products. Our future operating results are dependent, in part, on our ability to develop, produce and market new and more technologically advanced products. There are numerous risks inherent in this process, including the risks that we will be unable to anticipate the direction of technological change or that we will be unable to timely develop and bring to market new products and applications to meet customers’ changing needs. -8- Return to Index Our acquisitions may not produce the anticipated results. A significant portion of our growth is from acquisitions. We cannot assure you that we will identify or successfully complete transactions with suitable acquisition candidates in the future. If an acquired business fails to operate as anticipated or cannot be successfully integrated with our other businesses, our results of operations, enterprise value, market value and prospects could all be materially and adversely affected. Integration of new acquisitions into our consolidated operations may result in lower average operating results for the group as a whole, and may divert management’s focus from the ongoing operations of the Company during the integration period. Our strategy also focuses on the reduction of selling, general and administrative expenses through the integration or elimination of redundant sales facilities and administrative functions at acquired companies. The Company completed three acquisitions in 2012 and an additional two acquisitions in 2013, as previously described in the Acquisitions section of this Form 10-K. If we are unable to achieve our expectations with respect to these or future acquisitions, such inability could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations. In connection with the 2012 Acquisitions, we have recorded $9.1 million of goodwill and $11.7 million of other intangible assets. In addition, we have preliminarily recorded $4.6 million of goodwill and $7.6 million of other intangible assets in connection with the 2013 Acquisitions. If our acquisitions fail to perform up to our expectations, or if the value of goodwill or other intangible assets decreases as a result of weakened economic conditions, we could be required to record a loss from the impairment of these assets. If we were to undertake a substantial acquisition for cash, the acquisition would either be funded with cash on hand or financed in part through bank borrowings or the issuance of public or private debt or equity. The acquisition of the 2012 Acquired Companies was funded with cash on hand and shares of the Company’s Class B common stock. The acquisition of the 2013 Acquired Companies was funded with cash on hand and borrowings under the Company’s existing credit facility. If we borrow money to finance future acquisitions, this would likely decrease our ratio of earnings to fixed charges and adversely affect other leverage criteria and could result in the imposition of material restrictive covenants. Under our existing credit facility, we are required to obtain our lender’s consent for certain additional debt financing and to comply with other covenants, including the application of specific financial ratios, and we may be restricted from paying cash dividends on our capital stock. We cannot assure you that the necessary acquisition financing would be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all, when required. If we issue a substantial amount of stock either as consideration for or to finance an acquisition, such issuance may dilute existing stockholders’ ownership and may take the form of capital stock having preferences over our existing common stock. We are exposed to weaknesses in domestic and international markets and other risks inherent in foreign trade. We have operations in nine countries around the world outside the United States, and approximately 73% of our revenues during 2013 (up from 64% in 2012) were derived from sales to customers outside the United States. Some of the countries in which we operate have in the past experienced and may continue to experience political, economic, and military instability or unrest, medical epidemic and natural disasters. These conditions could have a material and adverse impact on our ability to operate in these regions and, depending on the extent and severity of these conditions, could materially and adversely affect our overall financial condition and operating results. Although our operations have traditionally been largely transacted in U.S. dollars or U.S. dollar-linked currencies, recent world financial instability may cause additional foreign currency risks in the countries in which we operate. The decoupling of the Chinese Renminbi from the U.S. dollar has increased, and will continue to increase, financial risk, particularly with the acquisition of TRP. The Company also has exposure to foreign currency risks associated with the British Pound and Mexican Peso as the Company has manufacturing operations in Great Britain and Mexico. The 2012 Acquisitions increased our exposure in Great Britain, the Eurozone and Sweden. Other risks inherent in doing business internationally include: expropriation and nationalization, trade restrictions, transportation delays, and changes in United States laws that may inhibit or restrict our ability to manufacture in or sell to any particular country. For information regarding risks associated with our presence in Asia, see “Item 2 – Properties” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. While we have benefited from favorable tax treatment in many of the countries where we operate, this situation could change if laws or rules in the United States or those foreign jurisdictions change, incentives are changed or revoked, or we are unable to renew current incentives. The loss of certain substantial customers could materially and adversely affect us. During the year ended December 31, 2013, sales to two customers each exceeded 10% of our consolidated revenue. One such customer (Hon Hai Precision Industry Company Ltd.) represented 19.2% of our revenue and the other (Flextronics International Ltd.) represented 10.4% of our revenue. We believe that the loss of either of these customers would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We have experienced significant concentrations in prior years. See Note 12 of the notes to the Company’s consolidated financial statements for additional disclosures related to our significant customers. -9- Return to Index The percentage of our revenues derived from our magnetics business increased to nearly 50% during the year ended December 31, 2013; with a concentration of sales in this product line, our profitability could be disproportionately impacted by negative events that impact our magnetics business. Over the past three years, revenues from our magnetics business have increased from 30% in 2011 to 35% in 2012 and to 49% in 2013, reflecting the growth of our ICM business, primary related to the acquisition of TRP in March 2013. An increase in concentration in any one of our product lines, including our magnetics product line, exposes us disproportionately to events impacting that product line, and thus could materially adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. We may experience labor unrest. As we implement transfers of certain of our operations, we may experience strikes or other types of labor unrest as a result of lay-offs or termination of employees in higher labor cost countries. Our manufacturing facilities in New York, the United Kingdom and Mexico are represented by labor unions and all factory workers in the PRC are represented by government-sponsored unions. We may experience labor shortages. Government economic, social and labor policies in the PRC may cause shortages of factory labor in areas where we have some of our products manufactured. If we are required to manufacture more of these products outside of the PRC as a result of such shortages, our margins will likely be materially adversely affected. Our results of operations may be materially and adversely impacted by environmental and other regulations. Our manufacturing operations, products and/or product packaging are subject to environmental laws and regulations governing air emissions; wastewater discharges; the handling, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances, wastes and certain chemicals used or generated in our manufacturing processes; employee health and safety labeling or other notifications with respect to the content or other aspects of our processes, products or packaging; restrictions on the use of certain materials in or on design aspects of our products or product packaging; and, responsibility for disposal of products or product packaging. More stringent environmental regulations may be enacted in the future, and we cannot presently determine the modifications, if any, in our operations that any such future regulations might require, or the cost of compliance with these regulations. We may face risks relating to climate change that could have an adverse impact on our business. Greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions have increasingly become the subject of substantial international, national, regional, state and local attention. GHG emission regulations have been promulgated in certain of the jurisdictions in which we operate, and additional GHG requirements are in various stages of development. Such measures could require us to modify existing or obtain new permits, implement additional pollution control technology, curtail operations or increase our operating costs. Any additional regulation of GHG emissions, including a cap-and-trade system, technology mandate, emissions tax, reporting requirement or other program, could adversely affect our business. New regulations related to conflict minerals will cause the Company to incur additional expenses and may have other adverse consequences. The SEC adopted inquiry, diligence and additional disclosure requirements related to certain minerals sourced from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and surrounding countries, or “conflict minerals”, that are necessary to the functionality of a product manufactured, or contracted to be manufactured, by an SEC reporting company. The minerals that the rules cover are commonly referred to as “3TG” and include tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold. These rules became effective in 2013, and they impose a requirement for public companies to make disclosures by May 2014 relating to 2013 activities. Implementation of the new disclosure requirements could affect the sourcing and availability of some of the minerals that the Company uses in the manufacture of its products. The Company’s supply chain is complex, and if it is not able to determine the source and chain of custody for all conflict minerals used in its products that are sourced from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and surrounding countries or determine that its products are “conflict free”, then the Company may face reputational challenges with customers, investors or others. Additionally, as there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering “conflict free” minerals, if the Company chooses to use only conflict minerals that are “conflict free”, the Company cannot be sure that it will be able to obtain necessary materials from such suppliers in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. Accordingly, the Company could incur significant costs related to the compliance process, including potential difficulty or added costs in satisfying the disclosure requirements. -10- Return to Index Our results may vary substantially from period to period. Our revenues and expenses may vary significantly from one accounting period to another accounting period due to a variety of factors, including customers’ buying decisions, our product mix, the volatility of raw material costs and general market and economic conditions. Such variations could significantly impact our stock price. A shortage of availability or an increase in the cost of high-quality raw materials, components and other resources may adversely impact our ability to procure these items at cost effective prices and thus may negatively impact profit margins. Our results of operations may be adversely impacted by difficulties in obtaining raw materials, supplies, power, labor, natural resources and any other items needed for the production of our products, as well as by the effects of quality deviations in raw materials and the effects of significant fluctuations in the prices of existing inventories and purchase commitments for these materials. Many of these materials and components are produced by a limited number of suppliers and may be constrained by supplier capacity. As product life cycles shorten and during periods of market slowdowns, the risk of materials obsolescence increases and this may materially and adversely impact our financial results. Rapid shifts in demand for various products may cause some of our inventory of raw materials, components or finished goods to become obsolete. The life cycles and demand for our products are directly linked to the life cycles and demand for the end products into which they are designed. Rapid shifts in the life cycles or demand for these end products due to technological shifts, economic conditions or other market trends may result in material amounts of inventory of either raw materials or finished goods becoming obsolete. While the Company works diligently to manage inventory levels, rapid shifts in demand may result in obsolete or excess inventory and materially impact financial results. A loss of the services of the Company’s executive officers or other skilled associates could negatively impact our operations and results. The success of the Company’s operations is largely dependent upon the performance of its executive officers, managers, engineers and sales people. Many of these individuals have a significant number of years of experience within the Company and/or the industry in which we compete and would be extremely difficult to replace. The loss of the services of any of these associates may materially and adversely impact our results of operations if we are unable to replace them in a timely manner. Our stock price, like that of many technology companies, has been and may continue to be volatile. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate as a result of variations in our quarterly operating results and other factors beyond our control. These fluctuations may be exaggerated if the trading volume of our common stock is low. The market price of our common stock may rise and fall in response to a variety of other factors, including: · announcements of technological or competitive developments; · general market or economic conditions; · market or economic conditions specific to particular geographical areas in which we operate; · acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or our competitors; · the gain or loss of a significant customer or order; or · changes in estimates of our financial performance or changes in recommendations by securities analysts regarding us or our industry In addition, equity securities of many technology companies have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations even in periods when the capital markets generally are not distressed. These price and volume fluctuations often have been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. Our intellectual property rights may not be adequately protected under the current state of the law. We cannot assure you we will be successful in protecting our intellectual property through patent or other laws. As a result, other companies may be able to develop and market similar products which could materially and adversely affect our business. -11- Return to Index We may be sued by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights and we may incur defense costs and possibly royalty obligations or lose the right to use technology important to our business. From time to time, we receive claims by third parties asserting that our products violate their intellectual property rights. Any intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming and expensive to litigate or settle and could divert management attention from administering our business. A third party asserting infringement claims against us or our customers with respect to our current or future products may materially and adversely affect us by, for example, causing us to enter into costly royalty arrangements or forcing us to incur settlement or litigation costs. In connection with patent infringement lawsuits discussed in Item 3. Legal Proceedings, the Company incurred expenses of $3.5 million related to lawsuit settlements in 2011. As a result of protective provisions in the Company’s certificate of incorporation, the voting power of certain officers, directors and principal shareholders may be increased at future meetings of the Company’s shareholders. The Company's certificate of incorporation provides that if a shareholder, other than shareholders subject to specific exceptions, acquires (after the date of the Company’s 1998 recapitalization) 10% or more of the outstanding Class A common stock and does not own an equal or greater percentage of all then outstanding shares of both Class A and Class B common stock (all of which common stock must have been acquired after the date of the 1998 recapitalization), such shareholder must, within 90 days of the trigger date, purchase Class B common shares, in an amount and at a price determined in accordance with a formula described in the Company’s certificate of incorporation, or forfeit its right to vote its Class A common shares. As of February 28, 2014, to the Company’s knowledge, there were two shareholders of the Company’s common stock with ownership in excess of 10% of Class A outstanding shares with no ownership of the Company’s Class B common stock and with no basis for exception from the operation of the above-mentioned provisions. In order to vote their respective shares at Bel’s next shareholders’ meeting, these shareholders must either purchase the required number of Class B common shares or sell or otherwise transfer Class A common shares until their Class A holdings are under 10%. As of February 28, 2014, to the Company’s knowledge, these shareholders owned 33.6% and 12.5%, respectively, of the Company’s Class A common stock and had not taken steps to either purchase the required number of Class B common shares or sell or otherwise transfer Class A common shares until their Class A holdings fall below 10%. Unless and until this situation is satisfied in a manner permitted by the Company’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the subject shareholders will not be permitted to vote their shares of common stock. To the extent that the voting rights of particular holders of Class A common stock are suspended as of times when the Company's shareholders vote due to the above-mentioned provisions, such suspension will have the effect of increasing the voting power of those holders of Class A common shares whose voting rights are not suspended. As of February 28, 2014, Daniel Bernstein, the Company's chief executive officer, beneficially owned 353,204 Class A common shares (or 30.1%) of the outstanding Class A common shares whose voting rights were not suspended, the Estate of Elliot Bernstein beneficially owned 82,357 Class A common shares (or 7.0%) of the outstanding Class A common shares whose voting rights were not suspended and all directors and executive officers as a group (which includes Daniel Bernstein, but does not include the Estate of Elliot Bernstein) beneficially owned 501,095 Class A common shares (or 42.6%) of the outstanding Class A common shares whose voting rights were not suspended. We are dependent on information technology and our systems and infrastructure face certain risks, including cyber security risks and data leakage risks. We are dependent on information technology systems and infrastructure. Any significant breakdown, invasion, destruction or interruption of these systems by employees, others with authorized access to our systems, or unauthorized persons could negatively affect operations. There is also a risk that we could experience a business interruption, theft of information or reputational damage as a result of a cyber attack, such as an infiltration of a data center, or data leakage of confidential information either internally or at our third-party providers. While we have invested in the protection of our data and information technology to reduce these risks and periodically test the security of our information systems network, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. -12- Return to Index 