Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Investors should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all other information contained in this Annual Report before making investment decisions with respect to our common stock. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business in the future. We do business in a highly competitive industry Our business is highly competitive worldwide, with relatively low barriers to competitive entry. We compete principally on the basis of product performance, quality, reliability, depth of product line, customer service, technological innovation, design, delivery time and price. The electronic components industry has become increasingly concentrated and globalized in recent years and our major competitors, some of which are larger than us, have significant financial resources and technological capabilities. Our backlog figures may not be reliable indicators. Many of the orders that comprise our backlog may be delayed, accelerated or canceled by customers without penalty. Customers may on occasion double order from multiple sources to ensure timely delivery when backlog is particularly long. Customers often cancel orders when business is weak and inventories are excessive. Therefore, we cannot be certain that the amount of our backlog equals or exceeds the level of orders that will ultimately be delivered. Our results of operations could be adversely impacted if customers cancel a material portion of orders in our backlog. There are several factors which can cause us to lower our prices. a) The average selling prices for our products tend to decrease rapidly over their life cycle, and customers are increasingly putting pressure on suppliers to lower prices. Our profits suffer if we are not able to reduce our costs of production or induce technological innovations as sales prices decline. b) Any drop in demand or increase in supply of our products due to the overcapacity of our competitors could cause a dramatic drop in our average sales prices which in turn could result in a decrease in our gross margins. -9- c) Increased competition from low cost suppliers around the world has put further pressures on pricing. We continually strive to lower our costs, negotiate better pricing for components and raw materials and improve our operating efficiencies. Profit margins will be materially and adversely impacted if we are not able to reduce our costs of production or introduce technological innovations as sales prices decline. The global financial crisis has materially adversely impacted our business and a continuation of that crisis may have further material adverse effects on our business and financial condition to an extent that we currently cannot predict. The current market conditions materially adversely impacted Bel during 2008. While our 2008 revenues remained steady from 2007, various asset impairment charges, including those related to the closure of our Westborough, Massachusetts facility, and a decline in the stock prices of companies associated with Bel’s investments, resulted in a substantial net loss for 2008. The continued credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial system may have a further material adverse impact on our business and our financial condition, and we are likely to face significant challenges if conditions in the financial markets do not improve. Changes in economic conditions can result in reductions in capital expenditures by end-user customers for our products, the deferral or delay of purchase commitments for our products and increased competition. Continuation or worsening of the current economic conditions, a prolonged global, national or regional economic recession or other events that could produce major changes in demand patterns, could have a material adverse effect on our sales, margins and profitability. The economic situation could have an impact on our lenders or customers, causing them to fail to meet their obligations to us. In addition, the Company believes that several of its vendors, particularly those located in Asia, are seeking to shorten established credit terms or eliminate credit entirely. In the event that the current economic conditions have a negative impact on the financial condition of our vendors, this may impact the availability and cost of our raw materials. Our ability to access the capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to raise additional financing, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. Given the extent of the global financial and credit crisis and the ramifications for our customers, vendors, lenders and competitors, we are not able to predict the impact the current global financial and credit crisis will have on our operations and on our industry in general going forward. We are dependent on our ability to develop new products. Our future operating results are dependent, in part, on our ability to develop, produce and market new and more technologically advanced products. There are numerous risks inherent in this process, including the risks that we will be unable to anticipate the direction of technological change or that we will be unable to timely develop and bring to market new products and applications to meet customers’ changing needs. Our acquisitions may not produce the anticipated results. A significant portion of our growth is from acquisitions. We cannot assure you that we will identify or successfully complete transactions with suitable acquisition candidates in the future. If an acquired business fails to operate as anticipated or cannot be successfully integrated with our other businesses, our results of operations, enterprise value, market value and prospects could all be materially and adversely affected. Integration of new acquisitions into our consolidated operations may result in lower average operating results for the group as a whole. -10- If our acquisitions fail to perform up to our expectations, or as the value of goodwill decreases, we could be required to record a loss from the impairment of assets. The Company recorded a charge of $14.1 million related to the impairment of goodwill during the fourth quarter of 2008. In addition, a total of $0.7 million of fixed asset impairments was recorded during the fourth quarter of 2008. Our strategy also focuses on the reduction of selling, general and administrative expenses through the integration or elimination of redundant sales facilities and administrative functions at acquired companies. Our inability to achieve these goals could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations. If we were to undertake a substantial acquisition for cash, the acquisition would likely need to be financed in part through bank borrowings or the issuance of public or private debt or equity. If we borrow money to finance acquisitions, this would likely decrease our ratio of earnings to fixed charges and adversely affect other leverage criteria and could result in the imposition of material restrictive covenants. Under our existing credit facility, we are required to obtain our lenders’ consent for certain additional debt financing and to comply with other covenants, including the application of specific financial ratios, and we may be restricted from paying cash dividends on our capital stock. We cannot assure you that the necessary acquisition financing would be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all, when required. If we issue a substantial amount of stock either as consideration in an acquisition or to finance an acquisition, such issuance may dilute existing stockholders and may take the form of capital stock having preferences over our existing common stock. We are exposed to weaknesses in international markets and other risks inherent in foreign trade. We have operations in six countries around the world outside the United States, and approximately 74% of our revenues during 2008 were derived from sales to customers outside the United States. Some of the countries in which we operate have in the past experienced and may continue to experience political, economic, medical epidemic and military instability or unrest. These conditions could have a material and adverse impact on our ability to operate in these regions and, depending on the extent and severity of these conditions, could materially and adversely affect our overall financial condition and operating results. Although our operations have traditionally been largely transacted in U.S. dollars or U.S. dollar linked currencies, recent world financial instability may cause additional foreign currency risks in the countries we operate in. The decoupling of the Chinese Yuan from the U.S. dollar has and will continue to increase financial risk. Other risks inherent in doing trade internationally include: expropriation and nationalization, trade restrictions, transportation delays, and changes in United States laws that may inhibit or restrict our ability to manufacture in or sell to any particular country. For information regarding risks associated with our presence in Hong Kong, see "Item 2 - Properties" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. While we have benefited from favorable tax treatment in many of the countries where we operate, the benefits we currently enjoy could change if laws or rules in the United States or those foreign jurisdictions change, incentives are changed or revoked, or we are unable to renew current incentives. -11- We may experience labor unrest. As we implement transfers of certain of our operations, we may experience strikes or other types of labor unrest as a result of lay-offs or termination of employees in higher labor cost countries. Our manufacturing facility in New York is represented by a labor union and all factory workers in the PRC are represented by unions. We may experience labor shortages. Government economic, social and labor policies in the PRC may cause shortages of factory labor in areas where we have our products manufactured. If we are required to manufacture more products outside of the PRC as a result of such shortages, our margins will likely be materially adversely affected. Our results of operations may be materially and adversely impacted by environmental and other regulations. Our manufacturing operations, products and/or product packaging are subject to environmental laws and regulations governing air emissions, wastewater discharges, the handling, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances, wastes and certain chemicals used or generated in our manufacturing processes, employee health and safety labeling or other notifications with respect to the content or other aspects of our processes, products or packaging, restrictions on the use of certain materials in or on design aspects of our products or product packaging and responsibility for disposal of products or product packaging. More stringent environmental regulations may be enacted in the future, and we cannot presently determine the modifications, if any, in our operations that any such future regulations might require, or the cost of compliance with these regulations. Our results may vary substantially from period to period. Our revenues and expenses may vary significantly from one accounting period to another accounting period due to a variety of factors, including customers' buying decisions, our product mix and general market and economic conditions. Such variations could significantly impact our stock price. A shortage of availability or an increase in the cost of raw materials and components may adversely impact our ability to procure high quality raw materials at cost effective prices and thus may negatively impact profit margins. Our results of operations may be adversely impacted by difficulties in obtaining raw materials, supplies, power, labor, natural resources and any other items needed for the production of our products, as well as by the effects of quality deviations in raw materials and the effects of significant fluctuations in the prices on existing inventories and purchase commitments for these materials. Many of these materials and components are produced by a limited number of suppliers and may be constrained by supplier capacity. As product life cycles shorten and during periods of market slowdowns, the risk of materials obsolescence increases and this may materially and adversely impact our financial results. -12- Rapid shifts in demand for various products may cause some of our inventory of raw materials, components or finished goods to become obsolete. The life cycles and demand for our products are directly linked to the life cycles and demand for the end products into which they are designed. Rapid shifts in the life cycles or demand for these end products due to technological shifts, economic conditions or other market trends may result in material amounts of inventory of either raw materials or finished goods becoming obsolete. While the Company works diligently to manage inventory levels, rapid shifts in demand may result in obsolete or excess inventory and materially impact financial results. A loss of the services of the Company’s executive officers or other skilled associates could negatively impact our operations and results. The success of the Company’s operations is largely dependent upon the performance of its executive officers, managers, engineers and sales people. Many of these individuals have a significant number of years of experience within the Company and/or the industry in which we compete and would be extremely difficult to replace. The loss of the services of any of these associates may materially and adversely impact our results of operations if we are unable to replace them in a timely manner. Our stock price, like that of many technology companies, has been and may continue to be volatile. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate as a result of variations in our quarterly operating results and other factors beyond our control. These fluctuations may be exaggerated if the trading volume of our common stock is low. In addition, the market price of our common stock may rise and fall in response to a variety of factors, including: · announcements of technological or competitive developments; · general market or economic conditions; · acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or our competitors; · the gain or loss of a significant customer or order; or · changes in estimates of our financial performance or changes in recommendations by securities analysts regarding us or our industry In addition, equity securities of many technology companies have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations even in periods when the capital markets generally are not distressed. These price and volume fluctuations often have been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. Our intellectual property rights may not be adequately protected under the current state of the law. We cannot assure you we will be successful in protecting our intellectual property through patent or other laws. As a result, other companies may be able to develop and market similar products which could materially and adversely affect our business. -13- We may be sued by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights and we may incur defense costs and possibly royalty obligations or lose the right to use technology important to our business. From time to time, we receive claims by third parties asserting that our products violate their intellectual property rights. Any intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming and expensive to litigate or settle and could divert management attention from administering our business. A third party asserting infringement claims against us or our customers with respect to our current or future products may materially and adversely affect us by, for example, causing us to enter into costly royalty arrangements or forcing us to incur settlement or litigation costs. Our investments in marketable securities could have a negative impact on our profitability. As part of our acquisition strategy, we have, from time to time, acquired equity positions in companies that could be attractive acquisition candidates or could otherwise be potential co-venturers in potential business transactions with us. As a result of market declines occurring subsequent to our investments, we recorded other-than-temporary impairment charges and realized losses of $10.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2008 related to our investments in Toko Inc., Power-One, Inc. and in the Columbia Strategic Cash Portfolio as a result of recent market declines. We will continue to monitor these investments as future market declines may result in additional impairment charges on these investments. See Item 7A – “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk”. As a result of protective provisions in the Company’s certificate of incorporation, the voting power of certain officers, directors and principal shareholders may be increased at future meetings of the Company’s shareholders. The Company's certificate of incorporation provides that if a shareholder, other than shareholders subject to specific exceptions, acquires (after the date of the Company’s 1998 recapitalization) 10% or more of the outstanding Class A common stock and does not own an equal or greater percentage of all then outstanding shares of both Class A and Class B common stock (all of which common stock must have been acquired after the date of the 1998 recapitalization), such shareholder must, within 90 days of the trigger date, purchase Class B common shares, in an amount and at a price determined in accordance with a formula described in the Company's certificate of incorporation, or forfeit its right to vote its Class A common shares. As of February 28, 2009, to the Company’s knowledge, there were two shareholders of the Company's common stock with ownership in excess of 10% of Class A outstanding shares with no ownership of the Company's Class B common stock and with no basis for exception from the operation of the above-mentioned provisions. In order to vote their respective shares at Bel's next shareholders' meeting, these shareholders must either purchase the required number of Class B common shares or sell or otherwise transfer Class A common shares until their Class A holdings are under 10%. As of February 28, 2009, to the Company's knowledge, these shareholders owned 17.0% and 12.1%, respectively, of the Company's Class A common stock and had not taken steps to either purchase the required number of Class B common shares or sell or otherwise transfer Class A common shares until their Class A holdings fall below 10%. The Company identified a third shareholder of the Company’s common stock with ownership in excess of 10% of Class A outstanding shares with no ownership of the Company’s Class B common stock; however, in that case, the Company’s repurchases of Class A common stock during the latter part of 2008 resulted in this shareholder’s owning more than 10%. In accordance with the Company’s certificate of incorporation, the above-mentioned provisions do not apply to any increase in percentage of beneficial ownership resulting solely from a change in the total number of shares of Class A common stock outstanding. As a result, this shareholder’s voting rights have not been impacted by the increase in its beneficial ownership percentage. -14- To the extent that the voting rights of particular holders of Class A common stock are suspended as of times when the Company's shareholders vote due to the above-mentioned provisions, such suspension will have the effect of increasing the voting power of those holders of Class A common shares whose voting rights are not suspended. As of February 28, 2009, Daniel Bernstein, the Company's chief executive officer, beneficially owned 93,555 Class A common shares (or 6.0%) of the outstanding Class A common shares whose voting rights were not suspended, the Estate of Elliot Bernstein beneficially owned 251,132 Class A common shares (or 16.3%) of the outstanding Class A common shares whose voting rights were not suspended and all directors and executive officers as a group (including Daniel Bernstein) beneficially owned 243,484 Class A common shares (or 15.6%) of the outstanding Class A common shares whose voting rights were not suspended. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 