Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Investors should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all other information contained in this Annual Report before making investment decisions with respect to our common stock. We do business in a highly competitive industry Our business is highly competitive worldwide, with relatively low barriers to competitive entry. We compete principally on the basis of product performance, quality, reliability, depth of product line, customer service, technological innovation, design, delivery time and price. The electronic components industry has become increasingly concentrated and globalized in recent years and our major competitors, some of which are larger than us, have significant financial resources and technological capabilities. -12- Back to Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our backlog figures may not be reliable indicators. Many of the orders that comprise our backlog may be canceled by customers without penalty. Customers may on occasion double and triple order components from multiple sources to ensure timely delivery when backlog is particularly long. Customers often cancel orders when business is weak and inventories are excessive. Therefore, we cannot be certain that the amount of our backlog equals or exceeds the level of orders that will ultimately be delivered. Our results of operations could be adversely impacted if customers cancel a material portion of orders in our backlog. There are several factors which can cause us to lower our prices. a) The average selling prices for our products tend to decrease rapidly over their life cycle, and customers are increasing pressure on suppliers to lower prices. Our profits will suffer if we are not able to reduce our costs of production or induce technological innovations as sales prices decline. b) Any drop in demand or increase in supply of our products due to the overcapacity of our competitors could cause a dramatic drop in our average sales prices causing a decrease in our gross margins. c) The average selling prices for our products tend to decrease rapidly over their life cycle, and customers are increasing pressure on suppliers to lower prices. In addition, increased competition from low cost suppliers around the world has put further pressures on pricing. The Company continually strives to lower its costs, negotiate better pricing for components and raw materials and improve our operating efficiencies. Profit margins will be materially and adversely impacted if we are not able to reduce our costs of production or introduce technological innovations as sales prices decline. We are dependent on our ability to develop new products. Our future operating results are dependent, in part, on our ability to develop, produce and market new and more technologically advanced products. There are numerous risks inherent in this process, including the risks that we will be unable to anticipate the direction of technological change or that we will be unable to timely develop and bring to market new products and applications to meet customers’ changing needs. Our acquisitions may not produce the anticipated results. A significant portion of our recent growth is from acquisitions. We cannot assure you that we will identify or successfully complete transactions with suitable acquisition candidates in the future. We also cannot assure you that acquisitions we complete will be successful. If an acquired business fails to operate as anticipated or cannot be successfully integrated with our other businesses, our results of operations, enterprise value, market value and prospects could all be materially and adversely affected. -13- Back to Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements If our acquisitions fail to perform up to our expectations, or as the value of goodwill decreases, we could be required to record a loss from the impairment of assets. Integration of new acquisitions into our consolidated operations may result in lower average operating results for the group as a whole. Our strategy also focuses on the reduction of selling, general and administrative expenses through the integration or elimination of redundant sales offices and administrative functions at acquired companies. Our inability to achieve these goals could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations. We intend to continue to seek additional acquisition candidates, although we cannot predict when or if we will make any additional acquisitions, and what the impact of any such acquisitions may have on our financial performance. If we were to undertake a substantial acquisition for cash, the acquisition would likely need to be financed in part through bank borrowings or the issuance of public or private debt or equity. If we borrow money to finance acquisitions, this would likely decrease our ratio of earnings to fixed charges and adversely affect other leverage criteria and could result in the imposition of material restrictive covenants. Under our existing credit facility, we are required to obtain our lenders’ consent for certain additional debt financing, to comply with other covenants including the application of specific financial ratios, and may be restricted from paying cash dividends on our capital stock. We cannot assure you that the necessary acquisition financing would be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all, when required. If we issue a substantial amount of stock either as consideration in an acquisition or to finance an acquisition, such issuance may dilute existing stockholders and may take the form of capital stock having preferences over our existing common stock. We are exposed to weaknesses in international markets and other risks inherent in foreign trade. We have operations in eight countries around the world outside the United States, and approximately 68 % of our revenues during 2005 were derived from sales to customers outside the United States. Some of the countries in which we operate have in the past experienced and may continue to experience political, economic, medical epidemic and military instability or unrest. These conditions could have a material and adverse impact on our ability to operate in these regions and, depending on the extent and severity of these conditions, could materially and adversely affect our overall financial condition and operating results. Although our operations have traditionally been largely transacted in U.S. dollars or U.S. dollar linked currencies, recent world financial instability and recent acquisitions in the Dominican Republic, Mexico, Germany, the United Kingdom, Hong Kong and The People's Republic of China (“PRC”) may cause additional foreign currency risks. -14- Back to Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Other risks inherent in doing trade internationally include: expropriation and nationalization, trade restrictions, transportation delays, and changes in United States laws that may inhibit or restrict our ability to manufacture in or sell to any particular country. For information regarding risks associated with our presence in Hong Kong and Macao, see "Item 2 - Properties" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. While we have benefited from favorable tax treatment in many of the countries where we operate, the benefits we currently enjoy could change if laws or rules in the United States or those foreign jurisdictions change, incentives are changed or revoked, or we are unable to renew current incentives. We may experience labor unrest. As we implement transfers of certain of our operations, we may experience strikes or other types of labor unrest as a result of lay-offs or termination of employees in higher labor cost countries. Our results of operations may be materially and adversely impacted by environmental and other regulations. Our manufacturing operations, products and/or product packaging are subject to environmental laws and regulations governing air emissions, wastewater discharges, the handling, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances, wastes and certain chemicals used or generated in our manufacturing processes, employee health and safety labeling or other notifications with respect to the content or other aspects of our processes, products or packaging, restrictions on the use of certain materials in or on design aspects of our products or product packaging and responsibility for disposal of products or product packaging. More stringent environmental regulations may be enacted in the future, and we cannot presently determine the modifications, if any, in our operations that any such future regulations might require, or the cost of compliance with these regulations. Our results may vary substantially from period to period. Our revenues and expenses may vary significantly from one accounting period to another accounting period due to a variety of factors, including customers' buying decisions, our product mix and general market and economic conditions. Such variations could significantly impact our stock price. -15- Back to Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements A shortage of availability or an increase in the cost of raw materials and components and our ability to procure high quality raw materials at cost effective prices may negatively impact profit margins. a) Our results of operations may be adversely impacted by difficulties in obtaining raw materials, supplies, power, natural resources and any other items needed for the production of our products, as well as by the effects of quality deviations in raw materials. Many of these materials and components are produced by a limited number of suppliers and may be constrained by supplier capacity. Our results of operations may be adversely impacted by difficulties in obtaining raw materials, supplies, power, natural resources and any other items needed for the production of our products, as well as by the effects of quality deviations in raw materials and the effects of significant fluctuations in the prices on existing inventories and purchase commitments for these materials. b) Our results of operations may be adversely impacted by difficulties in obtaining raw materials, supplies, power, natural resources and any other items needed for the production of our products, as well as by the effects of quality deviations in raw materials and the effects of significant fluctuations in the prices on existing inventories and purchase commitments for these materials. As product life cycles shorten and during periods of market slowdowns, the risk of material obsolescence increases and this may adversely impact our financial results. Rapid shifts in demand for various products may cause some of our inventory of raw materials, components or finished goods to become obsolete. The life cycles and demand for our products are directly linked to the life cycles and demand for the end products into which they are designed. Rapid shifts in the life cycles or demand for these end products due to technological shifts, economic conditions or other market trends may result in material amounts of inventory of either raw materials or finished goods becoming obsolete. While the Company works diligently to manage inventory levels, rapid shifts in demand may result in obsolete or excess inventory and impact financial results. -16- Back to Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements A loss of the services of the Company’s executive officers or other skilled employees could negatively impact our operations and results. The success of the Company’s operations is largely dependent upon the performance of its executive officers, managers, engineers and sales people. Many of these individuals have a significant number of years of experience within the Company and/or the industries in which we compete and would be extremely difficult to replace. The loss of the services of any of these employees may materially and adversely impact our results of operations if we are unable to replace them in a timely manner. Our stock price, like that of many technology companies, has been and may continue to be volatile. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate as a result of variations in our quarterly operating results and other factors beyond our control. These fluctuations may be exaggerated if the trading volume of our common stock is low. In addition, the market price of our common stock may rise and fall in response to a variety of factors, including: · announcements of technological or competitive developments; · acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or our competitors; · the gain or loss of a significant customer or order; · changes in estimates of our financial performance or changes in recommendations by securities analysts regarding us or our industry; or · general market or economic conditions. In addition, equity securities of many technology companies have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. These price and volume fluctuations often have been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. Our intellectual property rights may not be adequately protected under the current state of the law. We cannot assure you we will be successful in protecting our intellectual property through patent or other laws. As a result, other companies may be able to develop and market similar products which could materially adversely affect our business. We may be sued by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights and we may incur defense costs and possibly royalty obligations or lose the right to use technology important to our business. From time to time, we receive claims by third parties asserting that our products violate their intellectual property rights. Any intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming and expensive to litigate or settle and could divert management attention from administering our business. A third party asserting infringement claims against us or our customers with respect to our current or future products may materially adversely affect us by, for example, causing us to enter into costly royalty arrangements or forcing us to incur settlement or litigation costs. -17- Back to Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 