Item 1A. RISK FACTORS United is subject to risks inherent to the Company’s business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect the Company are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair United’s business operations. This report is qualified in 13 Table of Contents its entirety by these risk factors. United’s business may be adversely affected by conditions in financial markets and economic conditions generally United’s business is concentrated in the West Virginia, Northern Virginia and Shenandoah Valley Virginia market areas. As a result, its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are subject to changes if there are changes in the economic conditions in these areas. A prolonged period of economic recession or other adverse economic conditions in these areas could have a negative impact on United. A significant decline in general economic conditions nationally, caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic occurrences, unemployment, changes in securities markets, declines in the housing market, a tightening credit environment or other factors could impact these local economic conditions and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on United’s financial condition and results of operations which occurred during this past year. Economic conditions began deteriorating during the latter half of 2007 and continued throughout 2012. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions has been greatly reduced and many businesses are experiencing serious difficulties due to a lack of consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in credit markets. Unemployment has also increased significantly. As a result of this economic crisis, many lending institutions, including United, have experienced declines in the performance of their loans, including construction, land development and land loans, commercial loans and consumer loans. Moreover, competition among depository institutions for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. Overall, the general business environment has had an adverse effect on United’s business, and there can be no assurance that the environment will improve in the near term. Accordingly, until conditions improve, United’s business, financial condition and results of operations could continue to be adversely affected. The value of certain investment securities is volatile and future declines or other-than-temporary impairments could have a materially adverse affect on future earnings and regulatory capital Continued volatility in the fair value for certain investment securities, whether caused by changes in market conditions, interest rates, credit risk of the issuer, the expected yield of the security, or actual defaults in the portfolio could result in significant fluctuations in the value of the securities. This could have a material adverse impact on United’s accumulated other comprehensive income and shareholders’ equity depending on the direction of the fluctuations. Furthermore, future downgrades or defaults in these securities could result in future classifications as other-than-temporarily impaired. This could have a material impact on United’s future earnings, although the impact on shareholders’ equity will be offset by any amount already included in other comprehensive income for securities that were temporarily impaired. There are no assurances as to adequacy of the allowance for credit losses United believes that its allowance for credit losses is maintained at a level appropriate to absorb any probable losses in its loan portfolio given the current information known to management. Management establishes the allowance based upon many factors, including, but not limited to: • historical loan loss experience; • industry diversification of the commercial loan portfolio; • the effect of changes in the local real estate market on collateral values; • the amount of nonperforming loans and related collateral security; • current economic conditions that may affect the borrower’s ability to pay and value of collateral; • volume, growth and composition of the loan portfolio; and 14 Table of Contents • other factors management believes are relevant. These determinations are based upon estimates that are inherently subjective, and their accuracy depends on the outcome of future events, so ultimate losses may differ from current estimates. Changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, that are generally beyond United’s control, can affect the Company’s credit losses. With unfavorable economic conditions since the end of 2007, United’s credit losses have been on the rise. If the economic conditions do not improve or continue to decline, United’s credit losses could continue to increase, perhaps significantly. As a result, such losses could exceed United’s current allowance estimates. United can provide no assurance that its allowance is sufficient to cover actual credit losses should such losses differ substantially from our current estimates. In addition, federal and state regulators, as an integral part of their respective supervisory functions, periodically review United’s allowance for credit losses. Changes in interest rates may adversely affect United’s business United’s earnings, like most financial institutions, are significantly dependent on its net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between the interest income United earns on loans and other assets which earn interest and the interest expense incurred to fund those assets, such as on savings deposits and borrowed money. Therefore, changes in general market interest rates, such as a change in the monetary policy of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System or otherwise beyond those which are contemplated by United’s interest rate risk model and policy, could have an effect on net interest income. For more information concerning United’s interest rate risk model and policy, see the discussion under the caption “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” under Item 7A. United is subject to credit risk There are risks inherent in making any loan, including risks with respect to the period of time over which the loan may be repaid, risks resulting from changes in economic and industry conditions, risks inherent in dealing with individual borrowers and risks resulting from uncertainties as to the future value of collateral. United seeks to mitigate the risk inherent in its loan portfolio by adhering to prudent loan approval practices. Although United believes that its loan approval criteria are appropriate for the various kinds of loans the Company makes, United may incur losses on loans that meet our loan approval criteria. Due to recent economic conditions affecting the real estate market, many lending institutions, including United, have experienced substantial declines in the performance of their loans, including construction, land development and land loans. The value of real estate collateral supporting many construction and land development loans, land loans, commercial and multi-family loans have declined and may continue to decline. United cannot assure that the economic conditions affecting customers and the quality of the loan portfolio will improve and thus, United’s financial condition and results of operations could continue to be adversely affected. Loss of United’s Chief Executive Officer or other executive officers could adversely affect its business United’s success is dependent upon the continued service and skills of its executive officers and senior management. If United loses the services of these key personnel, it could have a negative impact on United’s business because of their skills, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. The services of Richard M. Adams, United’s Chief Executive Officer, would be particularly difficult to replace. United and Mr. Adams are parties to an Employment Agreement providing for his continued employment by United through March 31, 2016. United operates in a highly competitive market United faces a high degree of competition in all of the markets it serves. United considers all of West Virginia to be included in its market area. This area includes the five largest West Virginia Metropolitan Statistical Areas (MSA): the Parkersburg MSA, the Charleston MSA, the Huntington MSA, the Wheeling MSA and the Weirton MSA. United serves the Ohio counties of Lawrence, Belmont, Jefferson and Washington and Fayette county in Pennsylvania primarily because of their close proximity to the Ohio and Pennsylvania borders 15 Table of Contents and United banking offices located in those counties or in nearby West Virginia. United’s Virginia markets include the Maryland, northern Virginia and Washington, D.C. MSA, the Winchester MSA, the Harrisonburg MSA, and the Charlottesville MSA. United considers all of the above locations to be the primary market area for the business of its banking subsidiaries. There is a risk that aggressive competition could result in United controlling a smaller share of these markets. A decline in market share could lead to a decline in net income which would have a negative impact on stockholder value. Dividend payments by United’s subsidiaries to United and by United to its shareholders can be restricted The declaration and payment of future cash dividends will depend on, among other things, United’s earnings, the general economic and regulatory climate, United’s liquidity and capital requirements, and other factors deemed relevant by United’s board of directors. Federal Reserve Board policy limits the payment of cash dividends by bank holding companies, without regulatory approval, and requires that a holding company serve as a source of strength to its banking subsidiaries. United’s principal source of funds to pay dividends on its common stock is cash dividends from its subsidiaries. The payment of these dividends by its subsidiaries is also restricted by federal and state banking laws and regulations. As of December 31, 2012, an aggregate of approximately $27.6 million and $16.2 million was available for dividend payments from United Bank (WV) and United Bank (VA), respectively, to United without regulatory approval. United may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. United has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, or other institutional clients. Recent defaults by financial services institutions, and even rumors or questions about a financial institution or the financial services industry in general, have led to marketwide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by United or other institutions. Any such losses could adversely affect United’s financial condition or results of operations. United is subject to extensive government regulation and supervision United is subject to extensive federal and state regulation, supervision and examination. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. These regulations affect United’s lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy, operations and growth, among other things. These regulations also impose obligations to maintain appropriate policies, procedures and controls, among other things, to detect, prevent and report money laundering and terrorist financing and to verify the identities of United’s customers. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect United in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject the Company to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products United may offer and/or increase the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. United expends substantial effort and incurs costs to improve its systems, audit capabilities, staffing and training in order to satisfy regulatory requirements, but the regulatory authorities may determine that such efforts are insufficient. Failure to comply with relevant laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on United’s business, financial condition and results of operations. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. As an example, the FDIC imposed higher assessments on deposits in 2009 based on the adequacy of the deposit insurance fund, conditions of the banking industry and as a result of changes in specific programs. The Dodd-Frank Act changed the FDIC’s assessment base for federal deposit insurance from the amount of insured deposits to consolidated average assets 16 Table of Contents less tangible capital. It is possible that United’s deposit insurance premiums could increase even more in the future under this new requirement. In the normal course of business, United and its subsidiaries are routinely subject to examinations and challenges from federal and state tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due in connection with investments that the Company has made and the businesses in which United has engaged. Recently, federal and state taxing authorities have become increasingly aggressive in challenging tax positions taken by financial institutions. These tax positions may relate to tax compliance, sales and use, franchise, gross receipts, payroll, property and income tax issues, including tax base, apportionment and tax credit planning. The challenges made by tax authorities may result in adjustments to the timing or amount of taxable income or deductions or the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions. If any such challenges are made and are not resolved in the Company’s favor, they could have a material adverse effect on United’s financial condition and results of operations. United may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital in the future, but capital may not be available when it is needed United is required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support the Company’s operations. In addition, United may elect to raise additional capital to support the Company’s business or to finance acquisitions, if any, or United may otherwise elect to raise additional capital. In that regard, a number of financial institutions have recently raised considerable amounts of capital as a result of deterioration in their results of operations and financial condition arising from the turmoil in the mortgage loan market, deteriorating economic conditions, declines in real estate values and other factors, which may diminish United’s ability to raise additional capital. United’s ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside the Company’s control, and on United’s financial performance. Accordingly, United cannot be assured of its ability to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to the Company. If United cannot raise additional capital when needed, it may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and prospects. United’s information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security United relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. In addition, as part of its business, United collects, processes and retains sensitive and confidential client and customer information. United’s facilities and systems, and those of our third party service providers, may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors, or other similar events. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the Company’s customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While United has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of its information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of the Company’s information systems could damage United’s reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject United to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose the Company to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on United’s financial condition and results of operations. The Dodd-Frank Act may adversely affect United’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Dodd-Frank Act significantly changes regulation of financial institutions and the financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Act includes, among other things, provisions creating a Financial Services Oversight Council to identify emerging systemic risks and improve interagency cooperation; centralizing the responsibility for consumer financial protection by creating a new agency, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which will be responsible for implementing, examining and enforcing compliance with federal consumer financial laws; permanently raising the current standard maximum deposit insurance amount to $250,000; establishing 17 Table of Contents strengthened capital standards for banks, and disallowing trust preferred securities as qualifying for Tier 1 capital (subject to certain grandfather provisions for existing trust preferred securities); establishing new minimum mortgage underwriting standards; granting the Federal Reserve Board the power to regulate debit card interchange fees; and implementing corporate governance changes. Many aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act are subject to rulemaking that will take effect over several years, thus making it difficult to assess all the effects the Dodd-Frank Act will have on the financial industry, including United, at this time. However, it is possible that United’s interest expense could increase and deposit insurance premiums could change, and steps may need to be taken to increase qualifying capital. United expects that operating and compliance costs will increase and could adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. The rules effecting debit card interchange fees under the Durbin Amendment will negatively impact our electronic banking income. The Durbin Amendment required the Federal Reserve to establish a cap on the rate merchants pay banks for electronic clearing of debit transactions (i.e. the interchange rate). The Federal Reserve issued final rules, effective October 1, 2011, for establishing standards, including a cap, for debit card interchange fees and prohibiting network exclusivity arrangements and routing restrictions. The final rule established standards for assessing whether debit card interchange fees received by debit card issuers were reasonable and proportional to the costs incurred by issuers for electronic debit transactions. Under the final rule, the maximum permissible interchange fee that an issuer may receive for an electronic debit transaction is the sum of 21 cents per transaction, a 1 cent fraud prevention adjustment, and 5 basis points multiplied by the value of the transaction. Following completion of the acquisition of Virginia Commerce Bancorp, Inc., United will be subject to the cap on the interchange fees under the Durbin Amendment which will result in lower debit card interchange fees. The short-term and long-term impact of the changing regulatory capital requirements and anticipated new capital rules is uncertain. On June 7, 2012, the Federal Reserve, FDIC and OCC approved proposed rules that would substantially amend the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to the Company and the Bank. The proposed rules implement the “Basel III” regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act. The proposed rules were subject to a public comment period that has expired and there is no date set for the adoption of final rules. Various provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act increase the capital requirements of bank holding companies, such as the Company. The leverage and risk-based capital ratios of these entities may not be lower than the leverage and risk-based capital ratios for insured depository institutions. The proposed rules include new minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratios, which would be phased in during 2013 and 2014, and would refine the definition of what constitutes “capital” for purposes of calculating those ratios. The proposed new minimum capital level requirements applicable to the Company and the Bank under the proposals would be: (i) a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6% (increased from 4%); (iii) a total capital ratio of 8% (unchanged from current rules); and (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4% for all institutions. The proposed rules would also establish a “capital conservation buffer” of 2.5% above the new regulatory minimum capital ratios, and would result in the following minimum ratios: (i) a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 7.0%, (ii) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.5%, and (iii) a total capital ratio of 10.5%. The new capital conservation buffer requirement would be phased in beginning in January 2016 at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets and would increase each year until fully implemented in January 2019. Moreover, the proposed reforms seek to eliminate trust preferred securities from Tier 1 capital over a ten-year period. An institution would be subject to limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases, and paying discretionary bonuses if its capital level falls below the buffer amount. These limitations would establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that could be utilized for such actions. Additionally, the U.S. implementation of Basel III contemplates that, for banking organizations with less than $15 billion in assets, the ability to treat trust preferred securities as tier 1 capital would be phased out over a ten-year period. 18 Table of Contents While the proposed Basel III changes and other regulatory capital requirements will likely result in generally higher regulatory capital standards, it is difficult at this time to predict when or how any new standards will ultimately be applied to United. In addition, in the current economic and regulatory environment, regulators of banks and bank holding companies have become more likely to impose capital requirements on bank holding companies and banks that are more stringent than those required by applicable existing regulations. The application of more stringent capital requirements for United could, among other things, result in lower returns on invested capital, require the raising of additional capital, and result in additional regulatory actions if United were to be unable to comply with such requirements. Furthermore, the imposition of liquidity requirements in connection with the implementation of Basel III could result in our having to lengthen the term of our funding, restructure our business models, and/or increase our holdings of liquid assets. Implementation of changes to asset risk weightings for risk based capital calculations, items included or deducted in calculating regulatory capital and/or additional capital conservation buffers could result in management modifying its business strategy and could limit our ability to make distributions, including paying dividends. United’s business is dependent on technology, and an inability to invest in technological improvements may adversely affect United’s results of operations and financial condition. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. United has made significant investments in data processing, management information systems and internet banking accessibility. United’s future success will depend in part upon United’s ability to create additional efficiencies in its operations through the use of technology. There can be no assurance that United’s technological improvements will increase United’s operational efficiency or that United will be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. In addition, these changes may also require United to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make any changes necessary to comply with new statutory and regulatory requirements which may negatively impact United’s financial condition and results of operation. United is currently reviewing the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and assessing their probable impact on United and its operations. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting in the future could impair United’s ability to accurately and timely report its financial results or prevent fraud, resulting in loss of investor confidence and adversely affecting United’s business and stock price. Effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary to provide reliable financial reports and prevent fraud. Management believes that United’s internal controls over financial reporting are currently effective. Management will continually review and analyze the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting for Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 compliance. Any failure to maintain, in the future, an effective internal control environment could impact United’s ability to report its financial results on an accurate and timely basis, which could result in regulatory actions, loss of investor confidence, and adversely impact United’s business and stock price. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 19 Table of Contents 