ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This report contains forward-looking statements that do not convey historical information, but relate to predicted or potential future events, such as statements of our plans, strategies and intentions, or our future performance or goals for our product development programs. These statements can often be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as “believe,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “will,” “should,” or “anticipate” or similar terminology. The statements involve risks and uncertainties and are based on various assumptions. Stockholders and prospective stockholders are cautioned that these statements are only projections. In addition, any forward-looking statement that we make is intended to speak only as of the date on which we made the statement. Except for our ongoing obligations to disclose material information under the federal securities laws, we will not update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date on which the statement is made. The following risks and uncertainties, among others, may cause our actual results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements made in this report or presented elsewhere by management from time to time. Risks Related to Our Business We have incurred losses since our inception, and we expect to incur losses over the near term, which may cause the value of our common stock to decrease. We have had net operating losses since our inception in 1983. We expect to continue to incur net operating losses in the near term as a result of our expenses for the continued research, development and commercialization of Tarceva, Macugen and our other pipeline products, as well as due to our general operating expenses. Although our goal is to reach profitability by the end of 2006, there can be no guarantee that we will achieve profitability in this time frame or remain profitable in subsequent periods. If we continue to incur net operating losses, the value of our common stock could decrease. 28 Table of Contents We depend heavily on our two marketed products, Tarceva and Macugen to generate revenues in order to fund our operations and, to a lesser extent, potential upfront fees, milestones and royalties from the licensing of our DPIV patent estate. We currently derive, and are expected to continue to derive, substantially all of our revenues from our two marketed products, Tarceva and Macugen. We also have the potential to derive revenues from the milestone and royalty obligations under our license agreements for our DPIV patent portfolio, and from upfront, milestone and royalty obligation under any future licenses. Our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and overall market share for each of our two marketed products, together with Genentech and Roche, our partners for Tarceva, and Pfizer, our partner for Macugen, will depend on, and may be limited by, a number of factors, including the following: For Tarceva: • We must successfully penetrate the market for second-line and third-line NSCLC and for first-line pancreatic cancer; • Physicians may be reluctant to switch from existing treatment methods, including traditional chemotherapy agents, to Tarceva; • The market for new oncology products is very competitive, with many products currently in Phase III development that could be competitive with Tarceva; and • We must be successful in our clinical trials in additional indications and in receiving approval from the FDA and our foreign counterparts to market and sell Tarceva in such additional indications. For Macugen: • There must be continued acceptance of Macugen in the medical community by patients receiving therapy and by third party payors, including willingness of clinicians and patients to maintain continuous therapy at intervals of every six weeks; • Off-label use of unapproved agents for the treatment of wet AMD, such as Avastin, could continue to reduce Macugen’s share of the wet AMD market; • We must successfully compete with existing products for wet AMD and new products as they come to market, in particular, Lucentis, a clinical candidate currently in Phase III trials which we anticipate may be launched by Genentech as early as July 2006 and which will adversely impact our market share; • Macugen’s efficacy and safety profile must continue to be demonstrated in a broad patient population to be consistent with that shown in its clinical trials, and we must continue to receive positive data from ongoing clinical trials for Macugen; • Our ability to establish and demonstrate through clinical trials a new treatment paradigm that positions Macugen as safe and effective in the chronic management of wet AMD — both in sequential regimens, such as following induction therapy with pan-VEGF inhibitors such as Avastin or Lucentis, or PDT or steroids, or as first-line therapy in early-stage wet AMD; and • Continued future commercial success for Macugen will depend on our ability to expand the indications for which we can market Macugen. In addition to the factors above, information from our competitors or the academic community indicating that current products or new products are more effective than Tarceva or Macugen could, if and when it is generated, impede our market penetration or decrease our existing market share for these products. Our Tarceva and Macugen- derived revenues also would diminish if third-party payors, 29 Table of Contents including private health coverage insurers and health maintenance organizations, do not provide adequate coverage or reimbursement for these products. Our ability to realize potential milestone and royalty payments from the licenses for our DPIV patent portfolio is dependent on the success of our licensees in developing and registering their DPIV inhibitors. For example, while Merck has filed an NDA for its DPIV inhibitor, Januvia, which filing triggered a milestone payment to us, it is possible that the product may not receive approval from the FDA, in which case we will not receive any royalty revenue. If our competitors succeed in developing products and technologies that are more effective than our own, or if scientific developments change our understanding of the potential scope and utility of our products, then our products and technologies may be rendered less competitive. We face significant competition from industry participants that are pursuing products and technologies that are similar to those we are pursuing and who are developing pharmaceutical products that are competitive with our products and potential products. Some of our industry competitors have greater capital resources, larger overall research and development staffs and facilities, and a longer history in drug discovery and development, obtaining regulatory approval and pharmaceutical product manufacturing and marketing than we do. With these additional resources, our competitors may be able to respond to the rapid and significant technological changes in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries faster than we can. Our future success will depend in large part on our ability to maintain a competitive position with respect to these technologies. Rapid technological development, as well as new scientific developments, may result in our compounds, products or processes becoming obsolete before we can recover any of the expenses incurred to develop them. The market for new oncology products is very competitive, with many products currently in Phase III development. Most major pharmaceutical companies and many biotechnology companies, including our collaborators for Tarceva, Genentech and Roche, currently devote a portion or all of their operations to the research and development of new oncology drugs or additional indications for oncology drugs which are already marketed. In the second and third line settings for the NSCLC indication, Tarceva currently completes with existing chemotherapy options such as Alimta, and may compete in the future against a number of products in clinical trials, including Avastin. In the pancreatic setting, Tarceva may experience competition from a number of other drugs, including Avastin, Erbitux, Eloxatin and Xeloda. If ongoing Phase III clinical trials for Erbitux have exceptional activity, we would expect that Erbitux would pose a serious competitive threat to Tarceva in as early as 2007. Macugen competes against one FDA approved therapy for the treatment of wet AMD, Visudyne, a photodynamic therapy, in combination with thermal laser treatment. However, we believe Macugen faces its most significant competition from two pan-VEGF agents from Genentech: Avastin, and the clinical candidate Lucentis, an antibody fragment of Avastin. Genentech announced Phase III trial results for Lucentis which suggested that pan-VEGF agents may have better efficacy than Macugen. Genentech received priority review for Lucentis from the FDA in February 2006 for its BLA for Lucentis, and we anticipate that Lucentis may launch as early as July 2006, which will adversely impact the market share for Macugen. An additional clinical trial of Lucentis, known as the PIER study, is also underway. The purpose of the trial is to investigate an alternative, less intensive dosing regimen for Lucentis. If this trial demonstrates the same or very similar efficacy to the monthly dosing frequency tested in the pivotal Lucentis trials, it would eliminate the current advantage Macugen enjoys over Lucentis in treatment frequency, as Macugen currently requires administration every six weeks versus every four weeks for Lucentis. Positive results from this study could also undermine our strategy to capitalize on Macugen’s established safety profile and to position Macugen as safe and effective in the chronic treatment of wet AMD. The promising clinical date for Lucentis has also resulted in a significant number of ophthalmologists and retinal specialists engaging in the off-label use of the anti-cancer agent Avastin to treat wet 30 Table of Contents AMD. We believe that the off-label use of Avastin has resulted, and may continue to result, in a reduction of Macugen’s share of the wet AMD market. We estimate that off-label Avastin use currently accounts for up to a 20% share of patient treatments for wet AMD. To date, no formal clinical trials have been conducted testing Avastin for the treatment of wet AMD. As a result, local Medicare carriers have been declining reimbursement for both Avastin and the injection procedure for the treatment of wet AMD. However, our revenues from Macugen would be adversely affected if the Medicare program, local Medicare carriers or fiscal intermediaries were to subsequently make a determination to reimburse Avastin for the treatment of wet AMD. Furthermore, if clinical trial data, when it becomes available, relating to Avastin treatment for wet AMD does not demonstrate the same or similar types of adverse events highlighted in the prescribing information for Avastin for the treatment of colorectal cancer, we will not be able to capitalize on the established safety profile for Macugen which is a key component of our strategy for stabilizing, maintaining, and ultimately growing Macugen’s share of the wet AMD market. Our inability to implement this strategy would have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. In the event that Macugen is approved for the treatment of DME, it would compete against current treatments for DME, including off-label use of intravitreous Avastin, and potentially against a number of clinical trial candidates. We expect that our lead clinical candidate for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, PSN9301, will face competition from a number of drugs currently in clinical development. Treatments from Merck, Novartis and GlaxoSmithKline are at a more advanced stage of development than PSN9301 and Takeda, BMS and other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have development programs that are competitive with PSN9301. We depend heavily on our co-development and marketing alliance with Genentech and Roche for Tarceva. If Genentech or Roche terminate these alliances, or are unable to meet their contractual obligations, it would negatively impact our revenues and harm our business. Tarceva is being developed and commercialized in an alliance under co-development and marketing agreements with Genentech and Roche. Genentech leads the marketing efforts in the United States and Roche markets the drug in the rest of the world. The OSI/ Genentech collaboration agreement continues until the date on which neither we nor Genentech are entitled to receive a share of the operating profits or losses on any products resulting from the collaboration, that is, until the date that we and Genentech mutually agree to terminate the collaboration or until either party exercises its early termination rights as described as follows. The OSI/ Genentech collaboration agreement is subject to early termination in the event of certain customary defaults, such as material breach of the agreement and bankruptcy. In addition, since January 8, 2003, Genentech has had the right to terminate the OSI/ Genentech collaboration agreement with six months’ prior written notice. The provisions of the amendment allowing us to co-promote are also subject to termination by Genentech upon a material breach of the amendment by us, which remains uncured, or upon a pattern of nonmaterial breaches which remain uncured. The OSI/ Roche agreement continues until the date on which we are no longer entitled to receive a royalty on products resulting from the development of Tarceva, that is, until the date of expiration or revocation or complete rejection of the last to expire patent covering Tarceva or, in countries where there is no valid patent covering Tarceva, on the tenth anniversary of the first commercial sale of Tarceva in that country. The OSI/ Roche agreement is subject to early termination in the event of certain customary defaults, such as material breach of the agreement and bankruptcy. In addition, since July 31, 2003, Roche has had the right to terminate the agreement on a country-by-country basis with six months’ prior written notice. We also currently have the right to terminate the agreement on a country-by-country basis if Roche has not launched or marketed a product in such country under certain circumstances. 31 Table of Contents If we do not maintain a successful collaborative alliance with Genentech and Roche for the co-development and commercialization of Tarceva, or if Genentech or Roche are unable to meet their contractual obligations, we may be forced to focus our efforts internally to further commercialize and develop Tarceva without the assistance of a marketing and promotion partner. This would require greater financial resources and would result in us incurring greater expenses and may cause a delay in market penetration while we expand our commercial operations or seek alternative collaborative partners. We depend heavily on our collaboration with Pfizer for the continued development and commercialization of Macugen. Our relationship with Pfizer involves a complex sharing of control over decisions, responsibilities, and costs and benefits. Any loss of Pfizer as a collaborator, or any adverse development in the collaboration, could harm or cause a delay in the continued development and commercialization of Macugen. In December 2002, we entered into our collaboration with Pfizer to develop and commercialize Macugen for the prevention and treatment of diseases of the eye. The collaboration involves a complex sharing of control over decisions, responsibilities and costs and benefits. For example, with respect to the sharing of costs and benefits, Pfizer co-promotes Macugen with us in the United States and shares with us in gross profits and losses. Outside the United States, Pfizer will commercialize Macugen pursuant to an exclusive license and pay us a royalty on net sales. In addition, Pfizer generally is required to fund a majority of the ongoing development costs incurred pursuant to an agreed upon development plan. The collaboration is governed by a joint operating committee, consisting of an equal number of representatives of both Pfizer and us who control decisions and responsibilities. There are also subcommittees with equal representation from both parties that have responsibility over development, regulatory, manufacturing and commercialization matters. Ultimate decision-making authority is vested in us as to some matters and in Pfizer as to other matters. A third category of decisions requires the approval of both Pfizer and us. Outside the United States, ultimate decision-making authority as to most matters is vested in Pfizer. Pfizer may terminate the collaboration relationship without cause upon six to 12 months’ prior notice, depending on when such notice is given. In addition, until May 14, 2006, Pfizer has the contractual right, due to our acquisition of Eyetech, to terminate a regulatory services agreement and distribution agreement that were entered into at the time of the collaboration agreement. To date, Pfizer has not given notice that it intends to terminate any of these agreements. Any loss of Pfizer as a collaborator in the development or commercialization of Macugen, dispute over the terms of, or decisions regarding, the collaboration or other adverse development in our relationship with Pfizer could harm the continued development and commercialization of Macugen. Our revenues from our DPIV patent portfolio licenses are contingent upon the ability of the licensees to successfully develop and commercialize their products which are the subject of these licenses. We have licensed our DPIV medical use patent portfolio to pharmaceutical companies developing DPIV inhibitor products and expect to receive milestones and royalties in relation to such products. The extent to which we receive revenue under such licenses depends on the progress and success of the licensees’ products. If any of our licensees terminate their DPIV inhibitor programs or do not seek, or fail to receive, regulatory approval for their DPIV inhibitor products, the revenues we receive from such licensees will be reduced. Our outstanding indebtedness increased substantially with the issuance of our 3.25% convertible senior subordinated notes due 2023, or the 2023 Notes, and the 2025 Notes; we 32 Table of Contents may not be able to make the required payments on any of these notes when due and therefore we may face liquidity problems. As a result of the issuance of our 2023 Notes and the 2025 Notes, our long-term debt was $265 million as of December 31, 2005. Our 2023 Notes and the 2025 Notes significantly increased our interest expense and related debt service costs. Interest on the 2023 Notes accrues at the rate of 3.25% per annum and interest on the 2025 Notes accrues at a rate of 2% per annum. This amounts to interest payments of $2.4 million due and payable semi-annually on March 8 and September 8 of each year on the outstanding amount of the 2023 Notes. In addition, interest payments of $2.3 million is due and payable semi-annually on June 15 and December 15 of each year on the outstanding amount of the 2025 Notes. Cumulative interest payments of $85.3 million are scheduled to be paid between September 8, 2006 and September 8, 2023 on the 2023 Notes and $46.0 million between June 15, 2006 and December 15, 2025 on the 2025 Notes. Our long-term debt may make it more difficult for us to obtain any necessary financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other purposes and make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business. We currently are not generating sufficient net cash flow in excess of our operating budget to satisfy the annual debt service payments on the 2023 Notes or the 2025 Notes. We may be required to borrow additional funds or sell additional equity to meet our obligations with respect to these notes in the future. If we are unable to satisfy these obligations or repay the 2023 Notes or the 2025 Notes, we will default on our 2023 Notes and the 2025 Notes. Although we have clinical candidates in the pipeline for oncology, diabetes and obesity and ophthalmology, that appear to be promising at early stages of development, none of these potential products may reach the commercial market for a number of reasons. Successful research and development of pharmaceutical products is high risk. Most products and development candidates fail to reach the market. Our success depends on the discovery of new drugs that we can commercialize. Our pipeline for our oncology, diabetes and obesity, and ophthalmology clinical programs is at an early stage. Other than the development of Tarceva for additional indications, there is currently one oncology clinical candidate. This candidate, which is currently in Phase I trials, targets the co-inhibition of c-kit/VEGF receptor. Our lead clinical candidate for diabetes is PSN9301, a DPIV inhibitor that targets type 2 diabetes and is currently in Phase II clinical trials. We are also developing PSN357, a glycogen phosphorylase inhibitor currently in a Phase IIa clinical trial, and PSN010, a glucokinase activator, currently in a Phase I trial. In ophthalmology, we have an anti-PDGF aptamer in pre-clinical development for the treatment of wet AMD, in addition to DME and CRVO clinical programs for further development of Macugen for these indications. Given the early stage of each of these clinical candidates, there can be no assurance at this time that any of them will become a marketed drug. The clinical candidates in our pipeline may never reach the market for a number of reasons. They may be found ineffective or may cause harmful side-effects during preclinical testing or clinical trials or fail to receive necessary regulatory approvals. Interim results of preclinical or clinical studies are not necessarily predictive of their final results, and acceptable results in early studies might not be seen in later studies, in large part because earlier phases of studies are often conducted on smaller groups of patients than later studies, and without the same trial design features, such as randomized controls and long-term patient follow-up and analysis. We may find that certain products cannot be manufactured on a commercial scale and, therefore, they may not be economical to produce. Our products could also fail to achieve market acceptance or be precluded from commercialization by proprietary rights of third parties. We must provide the FDA and similar foreign regulatory authorities with preclinical and clinical data that demonstrate that our product candidates are safe and effective for each target indication before they can be approved for commercial distribution. The preclinical testing and clinical trials of any 33 Table of Contents product candidates that we develop must comply with regulations by numerous federal, state and local government authorities in the United States, principally the FDA, and by similar agencies in other countries. Clinical development is a long, expensive and uncertain process and is subject to delays. We may encounter delays or rejections based on our inability to enroll or keep enrolled enough patients to complete our clinical trials, especially as new competitors are approved to enter into the market. Patient enrollment depends on many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the trial protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites and the eligibility criteria for the trial. Although we have not to date experienced any significant delays in enrolling clinical trial patients for our ongoing clinical trials, delays in patient enrollment for future trials may result in increased costs and delays, which could have a harmful effect on our ability to develop products. A significant portion of the research that we are conducting involves new and unproven technologies. Research programs to identify disease targets and product candidates require substantial technical, financial and human resources whether or not we ultimately identify any candidates. Our research programs may initially show promise in identifying potential product candidates, yet fail to yield candidates for clinical development for a number of reasons, including difficulties in formulation which cannot be overcome, inadequate intellectual property protection and timing and competitive concerns. If any of our current or future marketed products, including Tarceva or Macugen, were to become the subject of problems related to their efficacy, safety, or otherwise, or if new, more effective treatments were introduced into the market, our revenues from our marketed products could decrease. If Tarceva or Macugen or any of our other current or future marketed products become the subject of problems, including those related to, among others: • efficacy or safety concerns with the products, even if not justified; • unexpected side-effects; • regulatory proceedings subjecting the products to potential recall; • publicity affecting doctor prescription or patient use of the product; • pressure from competitive products; or • introduction of more effective treatments; our revenues from such marketed products could decrease. For example, efficacy or safety concerns from time to time arise, whether or not justified, that could lead to additional safety warnings on the label or to the recall or withdrawal of such marketed products. In the event of a recall or withdrawal of Tarceva or Macugen, our revenues would decline significantly. In late 2005 and early 2006, reports of very infrequent but serious hypersensitivity reactions related to the administration of Macugen have led to changes in the approved label for Macugen in the United States and internationally. While these reports are rare, and their causal relationship to Macugen or other drugs and procedures co-administered with Macugen cannot be determined, the need for additional safety warnings or precautions may alter or delay regulatory decisions related to pending applications for approval to market Macugen in certain territories. We are responsible for the manufacture and supply of Tarceva and Macugen in the United States. Because we have no commercial manufacturing facilities, we are dependent on two suppliers for the API for Tarceva, a single supplier for the tableting of Tarceva in the United States and third parties for the manufacture of Macugen. If any of these third parties fails to meet its obligations, our revenues from our marketed products could be negatively affected. We are responsible for manufacturing and supplying Tarceva in the United States under the terms of a Manufacturing and Supply Agreement entered into with Genentech in 2004. We rely on two third- 34 Table of Contents party suppliers to manufacture erlotinib, the API for Tarceva. We also currently rely on a single manufacturer to formulate the Tarceva tablets. We are presently seeking another manufacturer to serve as a back-up provider of Tarceva tablets. We do not currently manufacture Macugen or any component of Macugen. We currently rely on separate single sources for the API used in Macugen, pegaptanib sodium, the fill and finish for the finished drug product, and the pegylation reagent. We are presently seeking another manufacturer to serve as a backup provider of API for Macugen. If our relationships with any of these manufacturers with respect to Tarceva and Macugen terminate or if these manufacturers are unable to meet their obligations, we would need to find other sources of supply. Such alternative sources of supply may be difficult to find on terms acceptable to us or in a timely manner, and, if found, would require FDA approval which could cause delays in the availability of erlotinib and ultimately Tarceva tablets, or pegaptanib sodium and ultimately Macugen, which, in turn, would negatively impact our revenues derived from Tarceva or Macugen. A component of our business strategy is to enter into collaborations with third parties to develop and commercialize certain of our products when we believe that doing so will maximize product value. We may not be successful in establishing such collaborations, which could adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize certain of our products. A component of our business strategy is to enter into collaborations with third party collaborators for the development and commercialization of certain of our product candidates, similar to our collaborations with Genentech and Roche for Tarceva and Pfizer for Macugen, when we believe that doing so will maximize the potential for the product. We face significant competition in seeking appropriate collaborators. Moreover, these collaboration arrangements are complex to negotiate and time consuming to document. We may not be successful in our efforts to establish additional collaborations or other alternative arrangements. If we are unable to reach agreements with suitable collaborators, we may fail to meet our business objectives for the affected product or program. The terms of any additional collaborations or other arrangements that we establish for our product candidates may not be as favorable to us than if we had pursued independent development and commercialization. Moreover, these collaborations or other arrangements may not be successful and the termination of these arrangements might adversely affect our ability to develop, commercialize and market certain of our products. The success of any of these potential collaboration arrangements will depend heavily on the efforts and activities of our future collaborators. Our collaborators will have significant discretion in determining the efforts and resources that they will apply to these collaborations. The risks that we face in connection with these collaborations include the following: • Our collaborators may develop and commercialize, either alone or with others, products and services that are similar to or competitive with the products that are the subject of our collaborations with them; and • Our collaborators may change the focus of their development and commercialization efforts. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies historically have re-evaluated their priorities following mergers and consolidations, which have been common in recent years in these industries. The ability of our products to reach their potential could be limited if our collaborators decrease or fail to increase spending relating to such products. Our reliance on third parties, such as clinical research organizations, or CROs, may result in delays in completing, or a failure to complete, clinical trials if they fail to perform under our agreements with them. In the course of product development, we engage CROs to conduct and manage clinical studies and to assist us in guiding our products through the FDA review and approval process. For example, we 35 Table of Contents collaborated with the National Cancer Institute of Canada’s Clinical Trial Group based at Queens University, Ontario, in connection with our Tarceva Phase III trials. Because we have engaged and intend to continue to engage CROs to help us conduct our clinical studies and obtain market approval for our drug candidates, many important aspects of this process have been and will be out of our direct control. If the CROs fail to perform their obligations under our agreements with them or fail to perform their responsibilities with respect to clinical trials in a satisfactory manner, we may face delays in completing our clinical trials, as well as commercialization of our drug candidates. Furthermore, any loss or delay in obtaining contracts with such entities may also delay the completion of our clinical trials and the market approval of drug candidates. Risks Relating to Regulatory Matters The manufacture and packaging of pharmaceutical products such as Tarceva and Macugen are subject to the requirements of the FDA and similar foreign regulatory bodies. If we or our third party manufacturers fail to satisfy these requirements, our or their product development and commercialization efforts may be materially harmed. The manufacture and packaging of pharmaceutical products, such as Tarceva and Macugen and our future product candidates, are regulated by the FDA and similar foreign regulatory bodies and must be conducted in accordance with the FDA’s current good manufacturing practices and comparable requirements of foreign regulatory bodies. There are a limited number of manufacturers that operate under these current good manufacturing practices regulations who are both capable of manufacturing our products, and willing to do so. Our failure or the failure of our third party manufacturers to comply with applicable regulations, requirements, or guidelines could result in sanctions being imposed on us or them, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our products, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of product, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect our business. We cannot be certain that we or our present or future suppliers will be able to comply with the pharmaceutical cGMP regulations or other FDA regulatory requirements. If we fail to meet our manufacturing obligations for Tarceva, our partner, Genentech, has the contractual right to take over the supply of Tarceva in the United States. Changes in the manufacturing process or procedure, including a change in the location where a product is manufactured or a change of a third party manufacturer, require prior FDA review and/or approval of the manufacturing process and procedures in accordance with the FDA’s current good manufacturing practices. This review may be costly and time consuming and could delay or prevent the launch of a product or the use of a facility to manufacture a product. In addition, if we elect to manufacture products at the facility of another third party, we will need to ensure that the new facility and the manufacturing process are in substantial compliance with good manufacturing practices. Any such change in facility would be subject to a pre-approval inspection by the FDA and the FDA would require us to demonstrate product comparability. Foreign regulatory agencies have similar requirements. Any prolonged interruption in the operations of our contractor’s manufacturing facilities could result in cancellations of shipments, loss of product in the process of being manufactured, or a shortfall or stock-out of available product inventory, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business. A number of factors could cause prolonged interruptions in manufacturing. The FDA and similar foreign regulatory bodies may also implement new standards, or change their interpretation and enforcement of existing standards and requirements, for manufacture, packaging or testing of products at any time. If we are unable to comply, we may be subject to regulatory, civil actions or penalties which could significantly and adversely affect our business. For example, with regard to Macugen, as a result of a post-approval commitment to the FDA to improve the control and environment for our finished drug product, we may experience delays or challenges in meeting our 36 Table of Contents regulatory commitment, or need to change the final presentation or packaging for Macugen. Such a change may lead to an increase in cost of goods. If government agencies do not grant us or our collaborative partners required approvals for any of our potential products in a timely manner or at all, we or our collaborative partners will not be able to distribute or sell our products currently under development. All of our potential products must undergo extensive regulatory approval processes in the United States and other countries. These regulatory processes, which include preclinical testing and clinical trials of each compound to establish safety and efficacy, can take many years and require the expenditure of substantial resources. The FDA and the other regulatory agencies in additional markets which are material to us and our collaborative partners, including the EMEA and the Japanese Ministry of Health, may delay or deny the approval of our potential products. Although we have been successful in gaining regulatory approval for Tarceva and Macugen in the United States and our collaboration partners have gained approval for Tarceva and Macugen in Canada, the European Union and a number of other territories, there can be no guarantee of subsequent approvals either for Tarceva and Macugen in other territories or for other indications in the United States or for other products in the United States and other territories. Delays or rejections may be encountered during any stage of the regulatory process based upon the failure of the clinical data to demonstrate compliance with, or upon the failure of the product to meet, a regulatory agency’s requirements for safety, efficacy and quality. Any such delay could have a negative effect on our business. A drug candidate cannot be marketed in the United States until it has been approved by the FDA. Once approved, drugs, as well as their manufacturers, are subject to continuing and ongoing review, and discovery of previously unknown problems with these products or the failure to adhere to manufacturing or quality control requirements may result in restrictions on their distribution, sale or use, or their withdrawal from the market. The FDA also has the authority, when approving a product, to impose significant limitations on the product in the nature of warnings, precautions and contra-indications that could negatively affect the profitability of a drug. Failure to comply with a Phase IV commitment can lead to FDA action either to withdraw approval of a drug or to limit the scope of approval. Furthermore, once a drug is approved, it remains subject to ongoing FDA regulation. Approved drugs can only be marketed for the indications and claims approved by the FDA. If we fail to comply with the FDA regulations prohibiting promotion of off-label uses and the promotion of products for which marketing clearance has not been obtained, the FDA, or the Office of the Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, Department of Justice, or state Attorney Generals could bring an enforcement action against us that would inhibit our marketing capabilities as well as result in significant penalties. Additional post-approval regulation by FDA includes changes to the product label, new or revised regulatory requirements for manufacturing practices, written advisements to physicians or a product recall. The current regulatory framework could change or additional regulations could arise at any stage during our product development or marketing, which may affect our ability to obtain or maintain approval of our products or require us to make significant expenditures to obtain or maintain such approvals. The ability to market and sell a drug product outside of the United States is also subject to stringent and, in some cases, equally complex regulatory processes that vary depending on the jurisdiction. Competitors could challenge our patents and file an ANDA or a 505(b)(2) new drug application for a generic or a modified version of Tarceva or Macugen and adversely affect their competitive position. Products approved for commercial marketing by the FDA are subject to the provisions of the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, or “Hatch-Waxman Act.” The Hatch- 37 Table of Contents Waxman Act provides companies with marketing exclusivity for varying time periods during which generic or modified versions of a drug may not be marketed and allows companies to apply to extend patent protection for up to five additional years. It also provides a means for approving generic versions of a drug once the marketing exclusivity period has ended and all relevant patents have expired. The period of exclusive marketing, however, may be shortened if a patent is successfully challenged and defeated. Competitors with a generic or a modified version of Tarceva or Macugen may attempt to file an ANDA or a 505(b)(2) NDA and challenge our patents and marketing exclusivity. Such applications would have to certify that the patents in the Tarceva or Macugen NDA are invalid or not infringed by the manufacture, use, or sale of the product described in that ANDA or 505(b)(2) application under the Hatch-Waxman Act, or a “Paragraph IV certification.” If successful, a competitor could come to market at an earlier time than expected. Since Tarceva and Macugen have five-year new chemical entity exclusivity, such a Paragraph IV challenge could not commence until at least late 2008. We can provide no assurances that we can prevail in a challenge or litigation related to our patents or exclusivity. Furthermore, regardless of the ultimate outcome of any litigation, the mere submission of such competitor application or the public announcement by a competitor that it intends to submit an application in the future may itself cause our stock price to decrease. Some of our activities may subject us to risks under federal and state laws prohibiting “kickbacks” and false or fraudulent claims. We are subject to the provisions of a federal law commonly known as the Medicare/ Medicaid anti-kickback law, and several similar state laws, which prohibit payments intended to induce physicians or others either to purchase or arrange for or recommend the purchase of healthcare products or services. While the federal law applies only to products or services for which payment may be made by a federal healthcare program, state laws may apply regardless of whether federal funds may be involved. These laws constrain the sales, marketing and other promotional activities of manufacturers of drugs such as us, by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements, including sales programs, with hospitals, physicians, and other potential purchasers of drugs. Other federal and state laws generally prohibit individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent, or are for items or services that were not provided as claimed. Anti-kickback and false claims laws prescribe civil and criminal penalties for noncompliance that can be substantial, including the possibility of exclusion from federal healthcare programs (including Medicare and Medicaid). Pharmaceutical companies have been the target of lawsuits and investigations alleging violations of government regulation, including claims asserting violations of the federal False Claim Act, the federal anti-kickback statute, and other violations in connection with off-label promotion of products and Medicare and/or Medicaid reimbursement, or related to claims under state laws, including state anti-kickback and fraud laws. While we continually strive to comply with these complex requirements, interpretations of the applicability of these laws to marketing practices is ever evolving and even an unsuccessful challenge could cause adverse publicity and be costly to respond to, and thus could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we do not receive adequate third-party reimbursement for the sales of our marketed products, we may not be able to sell such products on a profitable basis. Sales of our marketed products depend, in part, upon the extent to which the costs of our products are paid by health maintenance organizations, managed care, pharmacy benefit and similar reimbursement sources, or reimbursed by government health administration authorities, private health coverage insurers and other third-party payors. Such third-party payors continue to aggressively challenge the prices charged for healthcare products and services. Additionally, federal and state governments have prioritized the containment of healthcare costs, and drug prices have been targeted in this effort. If these organizations and third-party payors do not consider our products to be cost-effective, they may 38 Table of Contents not reimburse providers of our products, or the level of reimbursement may not be sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a profitable basis. In some foreign countries, particularly Canada and the countries of the European Union, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take six to 12 months or longer after the receipt of regulatory marketing approval for a product. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of our products to other available therapies. Because most persons suffering from wet AMD are elderly, coverage for Macugen in the United States is primarily through the Medicare program. Although drugs that are not usually self-administered are ordinarily covered by Medicare, the Medicare program has taken the position that it can decide not to cover particular drugs if it determines that they are not “reasonable and necessary” for Medicare beneficiaries. Limitations on coverage could also be imposed at the local Medicare carrier level or by fiscal intermediaries. In February 2005, CMS, the agency that administers Medicare, determined that, effective January 1, 2005, Macugen’s Medicare reimbursement will be average sales price plus six percent. By February 28, 2005, Medicare carriers of all 50 states confirmed Macugen reimbursement, according to the FDA label, without restrictions. However, our revenues from Macugen could be significantly negatively affected if the Medicare program, local Medicare carriers or fiscal intermediaries were to subsequently make a determination to deny or limit the reimbursement of Macugen. Our revenues from Macugen also could be negatively affected if physicians are not reimbursed by Medicare for the cost of the procedure in which they administer Macugen on a basis satisfactory to the administering physicians. Also, if the local contractors that administer the Medicare program are slow to reimburse physicians for Macugen, the demand for Macugen may decrease and our revenues from Macugen could be negatively affected. The 2003 Medicare prescription drug coverage legislation, The Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act, or the MMA, and future legislative or regulatory reform of the healthcare system may affect our ability to sell certain of our products, including Macugen, profitably. In both the United States and some non-U.S. jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that could affect our ability to sell certain of our products, including Macugen, profitably. In the United States, new legislation may be proposed at the federal and state levels that would result in significant changes to the healthcare system, either nationally or at the state level. Effective January 2004, the MMA changed the methodology used to calculate reimbursement for drugs such as Macugen that are administered in physicians’ offices in a manner intended to reduce the amount that is subject to reimbursement. In addition, the legislation directs the Secretary of HHS to contract with procurement organizations to purchase physician-administered drugs from the manufacturers and to provide physicians with the option to obtain drugs through these organizations as an alternative to purchasing from the manufacturers, which some physicians may find advantageous. These changes may also cause private insurers to reduce the amounts that they will pay for physician-administered drugs. Our revenues from Macugen could be significantly negatively affected if, as a result of the Medicare prescription drug coverage legislation, reimbursement for Macugen were to be reduced and if this legislation affects the amounts that private insurers will pay. 39 Table of Contents Risks Related to Intellectual Property and Legal Matters If we or our collaborative partners are required to obtain licenses from third parties, our revenues and royalties on any commercialized products could be reduced. The development of some of our products may require the use of technology developed by third parties. The extent to which efforts by other researchers have resulted or will result in patents and the extent to which we or our collaborative partners are forced to obtain licenses from others, if available, on commercially reasonable terms is currently unknown. If we or our collaborative partners must obtain licenses from third parties, fees must be paid for such licenses, which would reduce the revenues and royalties we may receive on commercialized products. If we cannot successfully protect, exploit or enforce our intellectual property rights, our ability to develop and commercialize our products will be severely limited. We hold numerous U.S. and foreign patents as well as trademarks and trade secrets; we also have many pending applications for additional patents. We intend to continue to seek patent protection for, or maintain as trade secrets, the potentially valuable intellectual property arising from our research and development activities, including commercially promising product candidates that we have discovered, developed or acquired. Our success depends, in part, on our ability and our collaborative partners’ ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for new product candidates, maintain trade secret protection and operate without infringing the valid and enforceable proprietary rights of third parties. As with most biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, our patent position is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. Without patent and other similar protection, other companies could offer the same or substantially identical products for sale without incurring the sizeable discovery and development costs that we have incurred. Our ability to recover these expenditures and realize profits upon the sale of products could be diminished. The process of obtaining patents can be time-consuming and expensive with no certainty of success. Even if we spend the necessary time and money, a patent may not issue or it may insufficiently protect the technology it was intended to protect. Even if issued, such issuance is not conclusive as to a patent’s validity or its enforceability. Patents may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to prevent or stop competitors from marketing similar products or limit the length of term of patent protection we may have for our products. For example, our patent which claims the use of DPIV inhibitors for lowering blood glucose levels was revoked by the European Patent Office in May 2004, and is being opposed in the German and Australian patent offices. Although we are currently challenging the revocation of our patent by the European Patent Office and the proceedings in Germany and Australia are at an early stage, if we are unsuccessful in defending these oppositions and the patent is revoked without possibility of appeal, this will potentially reduce the royalty revenue we derive from the non-exclusive licenses we have granted under the revoked patent in these territories where the patent is revoked. We can never be certain that we were first to develop the technology or that we were first to file a patent application for the particular technology because most U.S. patent applications are confidential until a patent publishes or issues, and publications in the scientific or patent literature lag behind actual discoveries. If our pending patent applications are not approved for any reason or if we are unable to receive patent protection for additional proprietary technologies that we develop, the degree of future protection for our proprietary rights will remain uncertain. Third parties may independently develop similar or alternative technologies, duplicate some or all of our technologies, design around our patented technologies or challenge our pending or issued patents. Furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights effectively or to the same extent as the laws of the United States. In addition, some countries do not offer patent protection for certain biotechnology-related inventions. If our intellectual property rights are not adequately protected, we may not be able to commercialize our technologies, products or services and our competitors could commercialize 40 Table of Contents our technologies, which could result in a decrease in our sales and market share that would harm our business and operating results. We are also party to a number of licenses that give us rights to third-party intellectual property that is necessary or useful to our business. Our success will depend in part on the ability of our licensors to obtain, maintain and enforce our licensed intellectual property, in particular, those patents to which we have secured exclusive rights. Our licensors may not successfully prosecute the patent applications to which we have licenses. Even if patents issue in respect of these patent applications, our licensors may fail to maintain these patents, may determine not to pursue litigation against other companies that are infringing these patents, or may pursue such litigation less aggressively than we would. Without protection for the intellectual property we license, other companies might to able to offer substantially identical products for sale, which could adversely affect our competitive business position and harm our business prospects. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, the value of our technology and products could be negatively impacted. In addition to patented technology, we rely upon unpatented proprietary technology, trade secrets, processes, and know-how. We seek to protect this information in part by entering into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. The failure to prevail in litigation or the costs of litigation, including patent infringement claims, could harm our financial performance and business operations and could cause delays in product introductions. We are susceptible to litigation. For example, as a public company, we are subject to claims asserting violations of securities laws and derivative actions. In particular, we currently face a securities class action alleging violations of securities laws which are described in our filings with the SEC. In addition, as a biotechnology company, our processes and potential products may conflict with patents that have been or may be granted to competitors, academic institutions or others. We cannot ensure that our products or methods do not infringe upon the patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. As the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries expand and more patents are filed and issued, the risk increases that our patents or patent applications for our product candidates may give rise to a declaration of interference by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or to administrative proceedings in foreign patent offices, or that our activities lead to claims of patent infringement by other companies, institutions or individuals. These entities or persons could bring legal proceedings against us seeking substantial damages or seeking to enjoin us from researching, developing, manufacturing or marketing our products, which could result in substantial costs and harm our reputation. If any of these actions are successful, we may not only be required to pay substantial damages for past use of the asserted intellectual property but we may also be required to cease the infringing activity or obtain the requisite licenses or rights to use the technology, that may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. Litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time. Litigation is inherently unpredictable and we may incur substantial expense in defending ourselves or asserting our rights in the litigation to which we are currently subject, or in new lawsuits or claims brought against us. Litigation can be expensive to defend, regardless of whether a claim has merit, and the defense of such actions may divert the attention of our management that would otherwise be engaged in running our business and utilize resources that would otherwise be used for the business. In the event of an adverse determination in a lawsuit or proceeding, or our failure to license essential technology, our sales could be harmed and/or our costs increase, which would harm our financial condition and our stock price may decline. While we currently maintain insurance that we believe is adequate, we are subject to the risk that our insurance will not be sufficient to cover claims. 41 Table of Contents The use of any of our potential products in clinical trials and the sale of any approved products exposes us to liability claims. The nature of our business exposes us to potential liability risks inherent in the research, development, manufacturing and marketing of drug candidates and products. If any of our drug candidates in clinical trials or our marketed products harm people or allegedly harm people, we may be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims. Many patients who participate in clinical trials are already ill when they enter a trial. The waivers we obtain may not be enforceable and may not protect us from liability or the costs of product liability litigation. While we currently maintain product liability insurance that we believe is adequate, we are subject to the risk that our insurance will not be sufficient to cover claims. There is also a risk that adequate insurance coverage will not be available in the future on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. The successful assertion of an uninsured product liability or other claim against us could cause us to incur significant expenses to pay such a claim, could adversely affect our product development and could cause a decline in our product revenues. Even a successfully defended product liability claim could cause us to incur significant expenses to defend such a claim, could adversely affect our product development and could cause a decline in our product revenues. If we fail to comply with our obligations in the agreements under which we license development or commercialization rights to products or technology from third parties, we could lose license rights that are important to our business. We are party to a number of technology licenses that are important to our business and expect to enter into additional licenses in the future. For example, we hold licenses from Gilead, Nektar and Isis under patents relating to Macugen. These licenses impose various commercialization, milestone payment, royalty, insurance and other obligations on us. If we fail to comply with these obligations, the licensor may have the right to terminate the license, in which event we would not be able to market products that utilize the licensed technology, such as Macugen. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price remains highly volatile which could make it difficult for our stockholders to resell our common stock. If our stock price falls, our stockholders may not be able to sell their stock when desired or at desirable prices. When the stock prices of companies in the Nasdaq Biotechnology Index fall, our stock price will most likely fall as well. The stock price of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, including our stock price, has been volatile and may remain volatile for the foreseeable future. From January 1, 2004 through December 31, 2004, the range of the closing price of our common stock was between $29.81 and $91.10 and the range of the Nasdaq Biotechnology Index was between 622.19 and 845.11. From January 1, 2005 through December 31, 2005, the range of the closing price of our common stock was between $21.99 and $72.30, and the range of the Nasdaq Biotechnology Index was between 641.35 and 812.65. From January 1, 2006 through March 7, 2006, the range of the closing price of our common stock was between $26.97 and $32.62 and the range of the Nasdaq Biotechnology Index was between 800.97 and 874.18. The following factors, among others, some of which are beyond our control, may also cause our stock price to decline: • a decline in sales of our marketed products, including Tarceva and Macugen; • a decline in our business operating results or prospects; • announcement or launching of technological innovations or new therapeutic products by third parties; • positive clinical efficacy or safety results from our competitors’ products; 42 Table of Contents • public concern as to the safety of our products and potential products; • comments by securities analysts regarding us or our competitors and general market conditions; • future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock by us or existing stockholders; • negative developments concerning strategic alliance agreements; • changes in government regulation, including pricing controls, that impact our products; • negative or neutral clinical trial results; • delays with the FDA in the approval process for products and clinical candidates; and • developments in laws or regulations that impact our patent or other proprietary rights. We have outstanding options, convertible debt, contingent value rights and warrants, the exercise, conversion or exchange of which could dilute stockholder value and cause our stock price to decline. We grant stock options to our employees and other individuals as part of our overall compensation plan which, upon vesting, are exercisable for common stock. In addition, we have issued convertible debt which may be converted into common stock and warrants which may be exercised for common stock as well as contingent value rights which, upon the occurrence of certain events, may be exchanged for common stock. We are not able to estimate when, if ever, the stock options or convertible debt will be exercised or converted into common stock or when, if ever, shares will be issued in connection with the contingent value rights or warrants, but any such conversion or issuance would almost certainly dilute stockholder value. Further, if some or all of such shares are registered and sold into the public market over a short time period, the price of our stock is likely to decline, as the market may not be able to absorb those shares at the prevailing market prices. This may also make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and a price that we deem appropriate. Our governance documents and state law provide certain anti-takeover measures which will discourage a third party from seeking to acquire us and may impede the ability of stockholders to remove and replace our board of directors and, therefore, our management. We have had a shareholder rights plan, commonly referred to as a “poison pill,” since January 1999. The purpose of the shareholder rights plan is to protect stockholders against unsolicited attempts to acquire control of us that do not offer a fair price to our stockholders as determined by our board of directors. Under the plan, the acquisition of 17.5% or more of our outstanding common stock by any person or group, unless approved by our board of directors, will trigger the right of our stockholders (other than the acquiror of 17.5% or more of our common stock) to acquire additional shares of our common stock, and, in certain cases, the stock of the potential acquiror, at a 50% discount to market price, thus significantly increasing the acquisition cost to a potential acquiror. The shareholder rights plan may have the effect of dissuading a potential hostile acquiror from making an offer for our common stock at a price that represents a premium to the then-current trading price. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain certain additional anti-takeover protective devices. For example, • no stockholder action may be taken without a meeting, without prior notice and without a vote; solicitations by consent are thus prohibited; • special meetings of stockholders may be called only by our board of directors, although the proxy statement for our annual meeting of stockholders will include a proposed amendment to our bylaws that, if adopted by our stockholders, would allow stockholders holding 20% of our outstanding shares to call a special meeting of stockholders upon 90 days prior written notice; 43 Table of Contents • nominations by stockholders of candidates for election to the board of directors at our annual meeting of stockholders must be made at least 45 days prior to the anniversary of the date on which we first mailed our proxy materials for the prior year’s annual meeting of stockholders; and • our board of directors has the authority, without further action by the stockholders, to fix the rights and preferences, and issue shares, of preferred stock. An issuance of preferred stock with dividend and liquidation rights senior to the common stock and convertible into a large number of shares of common stock could prevent a potential acquiror from gaining effective economic or voting control. Further, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which, subject to certain exceptions, restricts certain transactions and business combinations between a corporation and a stockholder owning 15% or more of the corporation’s outstanding voting stock for a period of three years from the date the stockholder becomes a 15% stockholder. In addition to discouraging a third party from acquiring control of us, the foregoing provisions could impair the ability of existing stockholders to remove and replace our management and/or our board of directors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved staff comments. 