Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Changes in interest rates may adversely affect United’s business United’s earnings, like most financial institutions, are significantly dependent on its net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between the interest income United earns on loans and other assets which earn interest and the interest expense incurred to fund those assets, such as on savings deposits and borrowed money. Therefore, changes in general market interest rates, such as a change in the monetary policy of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System or otherwise beyond those which are contemplated by United’s interest rate risk model and policy, could have an effect on net interest income. For more information concerning United’s interest rate risk model and policy, see the discussion under the caption “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” under Item 7A. 9 Table of Contents Loss of United’s Chief Executive Officer or other executive officers could adversely affect its business United’s success is dependent upon the continued service and skills of its executive officers and senior management. If United loses the services of these key personnel, it could have a negative impact on United’s business because of their skills, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. The services of Richard M. Adams, United’s Chief Executive Officer, would be particularly difficult to replace. United and Mr. Adams are parties to an Employment Agreement providing for his continued employment by United through March 31, 2012. United operates in a highly competitive market United faces a high degree of competition in all of the markets it serves. United considers all of West Virginia to be included in its market area. This area includes the five largest West Virginia Metropolitan Statistical Areas (MSA): the Parkersburg MSA, the Charleston MSA, the Huntington MSA, the Wheeling MSA and the Weirton MSA. United serves the Ohio counties of Lawrence, Belmont, Jefferson and Washington primarily because of their close proximity to the Ohio border and United banking offices nearby in West Virginia. In Virginia, United competes in the Northern Virginia counties of Arlington, Loudoun, Prince William and Fairfax. In addition, United has offices in the Washington, D.C. MSA and considers this part of its market. In Maryland, United has offices in Montgomery county. United considers all of the above locations to be the primary market area for the business of its banking subsidiaries. There is a risk that aggressive competition could result in United controlling a smaller share of these markets. A decline in market share could lead to a decline in net income which would have a negative impact on stockholder value. Dividend payments by United’s subsidiaries to United and by United to its shareholders can be restricted The declaration and payment of future cash dividends will depend on, among other things, United’s earnings, the general economic and regulatory climate, United’s liquidity and capital requirements, and other factors deemed relevant by United’s board of directors. Federal Reserve Board policy limits the payment of cash dividends by bank holding companies, without regulatory approval, and requires that a holding company serve as a source of strength to its banking subsidiaries. United’s principal source of funds to pay dividends on its common stock is cash dividends from its subsidiaries. The payment of these dividends by its subsidiaries is also restricted by federal and state banking laws and regulations. As of December 31, 2006, an aggregate of approximately $16.47 million and $14.17 million was available for dividend payments from United Bank (WV) and United Bank (VA), respectively, to United without regulatory approval. Downturn in the local economies may adversely affect its business United’s business is concentrated in the West Virginia and Northern Virginia market areas. As a result, its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are subject to changes if there are changes in the economic conditions in these areas. A prolonged period of economic recession or other adverse economic conditions in one or both of these areas could have a negative impact on United. United can provide no assurance that conditions in its market area economies will not deteriorate in the future and that such a deterioration would not have a material adverse effect on United. There are no assurances as to adequacy of the allowance for credit losses United believes that its allowance for credit losses is maintained at a level adequate to absorb any probable losses in its loan portfolio given the current information known to management. Management establishes the allowance based upon many factors, including, but not limited to: • historical loan loss experience; 10 Table of Contents • industry diversification of the commercial loan portfolio; • the effect of changes in the local real estate market on collateral values; • the amount of nonperforming loans and related collateral security; • current economic conditions that may affect the borrower’s ability to pay and value of collateral; • sources and cost of funds; • volume, growth and composition of the loan portfolio; and • other factors management believes are relevant. These determinations are based upon estimates that are inherently subjective, and their accuracy depends on the outcome of future events, so ultimate losses may differ from current estimates. Depending on changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, that are generally beyond its control, United’s actual loan losses could increase significantly. As a result, such losses could exceed United’s current allowance estimates. United can provide no assurance that its allowance is sufficient to cover actual loan losses should such losses differ substantially from our current estimates. In addition, federal and state regulators, as an integral part of their respective supervisory functions, periodically review United’s allowance for credit losses. United’s independent auditors also review the allowance as a part of their audit. Any increase in its allowance required by either the regulatory agencies or independent auditors would reduce United’s pre-tax earnings. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 