ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This report contains forward-looking statements that do not convey historical information, but relate to predicted or potential future events, such as statements of our plans, strategies and intentions, or our future performance or goals for our product development programs. These statements can often be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as “believe,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “will,” “should,” or “anticipate” or similar terminology. The statements involve risks and uncertainties and are based on various assumptions. Stockholders and prospective stockholders are cautioned that these statements are only projections. In addition, any forward-looking statement that we make is intended to speak only as of the date on which we made the statement. Except for our ongoing obligations to disclose material information under the federal securities laws, we will not update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date on which the statement is made. The following risks and uncertainties, among others, may cause our actual results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements made in this report or presented elsewhere by management from time to time. Risks Related to Our Business We depend heavily on our principal marketed product, Tarceva, to generate revenues in order to fund our operations. We currently derive much of our revenues from our principal marketed product, Tarceva, which provided approximately 55% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006. Going forward, we will rely to an even greater extent on Tarceva to generate revenues. Our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and overall market share for Tarceva will depend on, and may be limited by, a number of factors, including the following: • We must maintain and seek to expand the market share, both in the United States and in the rest of the world, and revenues for Tarceva in the treatment of second-line and third-line NSCLC and for first-line pancreatic cancer; • Physicians may be reluctant to switch from existing treatment methods, including traditional chemotherapy agents, to Tarceva; • The market for oncology products is very competitive, and there are marketed products and products which are currently in Phase III development that are or could be competitive with Tarceva; • We must be successful in our clinical trials for additional indications and in receiving approval from the FDA and our foreign counterparts to market and sell Tarceva in such additional indications; and • Third-party payors, including private health coverage insurers and health maintenance organizations, must continue to provide adequate coverage or reimbursement for Tarceva. If Tarceva were to become the subject of problems related to its efficacy, safety, or otherwise, or if new, more effective treatments were introduced into the market, our revenues from Tarceva could decrease. If Tarceva becomes the subject of problems, including those related to, among others: • efficacy or safety concerns with the product, even if not justified; • unexpected side-effects; • regulatory proceedings subjecting the product to potential recall; • publicity affecting doctor prescription or patient use of the product; • pressure from competitive products; 23 • introduction of more effective treatments; or • manufacturing or quality problems that would reduce or disrupt product availability. our revenues from Tarceva could decrease. For example, efficacy or safety concerns from time to time arise, whether or not justified, that could lead to additional safety warnings on the label or to the recall or withdrawal of Tarceva. In the event of a recall or withdrawal of Tarceva, our revenues would decline significantly. We depend heavily on our co-development and marketing alliance with Genentech and Roche for Tarceva. If Genentech or Roche terminate these alliances, or are unable to meet their contractual obligations, it would negatively impact our revenues and harm our business. Tarceva is being developed and commercialized in an alliance under co-development and marketing agreements with Genentech and Roche. Genentech leads the marketing efforts in the United States and Roche markets the drug in the rest of the world. The OSI/ Genentech collaboration agreement continues until the date on which neither we nor Genentech are entitled to receive a share of the operating profits or losses on any products resulting from the collaboration, that is, until the date that we and Genentech mutually agree to terminate the collaboration or until either party exercises its early termination rights as described as follows. The OSI/ Genentech collaboration agreement is subject to early termination in the event of certain customary defaults, such as material breach of the agreement and bankruptcy. In addition, Genentech has the right to terminate the OSI/Genentech collaboration agreement with six months’ prior written notice. The provisions of the amendment allowing us to co-promote are also subject to termination by Genentech upon a material breach of the amendment by us, which remains uncured, or upon a pattern of nonmaterial breaches which remain uncured. The OSI/Roche agreement continues until the date on which we are no longer entitled to receive a royalty on products resulting from the development of Tarceva, that is, until the date of expiration or revocation or complete rejection of the last to expire patent covering Tarceva or, in countries where there is no valid patent covering Tarceva, on the tenth anniversary of the first commercial sale of Tarceva in that country. The OSI/Roche agreement is subject to early termination in the event of certain customary defaults, such as material breach of the agreement and bankruptcy. In addition, Roche has the right to terminate the agreement on a country-by-country basis with six months’ prior written notice. We also currently have the right to terminate the agreement on a country-by-country basis if Roche has not launched or marketed a product in such country under certain circumstances. If we do not maintain a successful collaborative alliance with Genentech and Roche for the co-development and commercialization of Tarceva, or if Genentech or Roche are unable to meet their contractual obligations, we may be forced to focus our efforts internally to further commercialize and develop Tarceva without the assistance of a marketing and promotion partner. This would require greater financial resources and would result in us incurring greater expenses and may cause a delay in market penetration while we expand our commercial operations or seek alternative collaborative partners. We are responsible for the manufacture and supply of Tarceva in the United States. Because we have no commercial manufacturing facilities, we are dependent on two suppliers for the API for Tarceva and a single supplier for the tableting of Tarceva in the United States. If any of these third parties fails to meet its obligations, our revenues from Tarceva could be negatively affected. We are responsible for manufacturing and supplying Tarceva in the United States under the terms of a Manufacturing and Supply Agreement entered into with Genentech in 2004. We rely on two third-party suppliers to manufacture erlotinib, the API for Tarceva. We also currently rely on a single manufacturer to formulate the Tarceva tablets. We are presently working to qualify another manufacturer to serve as a back-up provider of Tarceva tablets. 24 If our relationships with any of these manufacturers with respect to Tarceva terminate or if these manufacturers are unable to meet their obligations, we would need to find other sources of supply. Such alternative sources of supply may be difficult to find on terms acceptable to us or in a timely manner, and, if found, would require FDA approval which could cause delays in the availability of erlotinib and ultimately Tarceva tablets, which, in turn, would negatively impact our revenues derived from Tarceva. If our competitors succeed in developing products and technologies that are more effective than our own, or if scientific developments change our understanding of the potential scope and utility of our products, then our products and technologies may be rendered less competitive. We face significant competition from industry participants that are pursuing products and technologies that are similar to those we are pursuing and who are developing pharmaceutical products that are competitive with our products and potential products. Some of our industry competitors have greater capital resources, larger overall research and development staffs and facilities, and a longer history in drug discovery and development, obtaining regulatory approval and pharmaceutical product manufacturing and marketing than we do. With these additional resources, our competitors may be able to respond to the rapid and significant technological changes in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries faster than we can. Our future success will depend in large part on our ability to maintain a competitive position with respect to these technologies. Rapid technological development, as well as new scientific developments, may result in our compounds, products or processes becoming obsolete before we can recover any of the expenses incurred to develop them. The current competition in the United States to Tarceva in the second and third line settings for the NSCLC indication includes existing chemotherapy options such as Alimta, Taxotere and Gemzar. In addition, in October 2006, the FDA approved Avastin in combination with chemotherapy for the first-line treatment of patients with unresectable, locally advanced, recurrent or metastatic non-squamous NSCLC. Although Avastin in combination with chemotherapy is not approved for the treatment of second or third line NSCLC, off-label use of Avastin in this setting could limit the market share for Tarceva. In certain markets where Iressa is available, Tarceva must compete for market share. Tarceva also currently competes, and may compete in the future, with a number of other cancer treatments, including Erbitux, Xeloda, Vectibix, Sutent, Nexavar and Zactima. In the pancreatic setting, Tarceva may experience competition from Erbitux if ongoing studies for this drug produce positive results. Additionally, Roche announced favorable results for its chemotherapy product, Xeloda, in pancreatic cancer in combination with gemcitabine. If Roche succeeds in gaining regulatory approval for Xeloda for the treatment of pancreatic cancer, it could impact Tarceva’s market share in this indication. In the diabetes and obesity arena, a number of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are conducting clinical trials of potential drugs in the same areas as our drug discovery and development programs. We are aware of at least six competitors, Merck, Novartis, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Takeda, Merck KGaA and Pfizer with DPIV inhibitor clinical candidates for the treatment of diabetes. We believe that certain of these potential drugs are at a more advanced stage of development than our clinical candidate, PSN9301. In October 2006, Merck received FDA approval for Januvia, its DPIV inhibitor, and Novartis filed an NDA for its DPIV inhibitor, Galvus, in January 2006. Given that Januvia has reached the market earlier than PSN9301 and others may also receive regulatory approval prior to PSN9301, we may be at a competitive disadvantage at the time, if ever, that we receive regulatory approval to commercialize PSN9301. Additionally, if scientific developments change our understanding of the product differentiation of PSN9301 from that of our competitors’ products, the competitive positioning and market potential of PSN9301 may be detrimentally affected. Our glucokinase activator, PSN010, faces potential competition from Roche and Novo Nordisk, who have, at various times, announced similar GKA research and development activities. 25 Macugen has experienced, and will continue to experience, significant competition in the market for the treatment of wet AMD from Lucentis and the off-label use of Avastin. Lucentis, an anti-VEGF-A humanized antibody fragment, was launched in the United States in July 2006. Clinicians are also engaging in widespread off-label intravitreous administration of Avastin for the treatment of patients with wet AMD. We estimate that Lucentis and Avastin comprise most of the market share of patients treated for wet AMD. While we are attempting to establish Macugen as the optimal product for the chronic management of wet AMD, this strategy depends on a clear understanding by ophthalmologists and retinal specialists of a potential higher risk for either ocular or systemic adverse events related to Avastin and Lucentis, as well as clinical data which support the ability of Macugen to sustain the vision gains resulting from the initial use of Lucentis or Avastin. If this strategy is not successful, Macugen’s share of the wet AMD market may continue to decline. Our revenues from our DPIV patent portfolio licenses are contingent upon the ability of the licensees to successfully develop and commercialize their products which are the subject of these licenses. We have licensed our DPIV medical use patent portfolio to pharmaceutical companies developing DPIV inhibitor products. We currently derive or have the potential to derive in the future revenues from the milestone and royalty obligations under these license agreements. Licensees include Merck, whose product Januvia was approved by the FDA in late 2006 and received a positive opinion in January 2007 from the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use in relation to its European regulatory approval application. A second product covered by our DPIV license agreement with Merck, Janumet, is under review by the FDA. Novartis is also a licensee and it received an “approvable” letter from the FDA on February 26, 2007 with respect to its product, Galvus. There can be no assurance that Janumet, Galvus or any other DPIV inhibitors covered by license agreements with us will be approved by the FDA or other regulatory authorities or that we will derive royalty revenues from these agents. The extent to which we receive revenue under such licenses depends on our ability to enforce our patent rights in our DPIV portfolio and the progress and success of our licensees’ products. If any of our licensees terminate their DPIV inhibitor programs or do not seek, or fail to receive, regulatory approval for their DPIV inhibitor products, the revenues we receive from such licensees will be reduced. Although we have clinical candidates in the pipeline for oncology and diabetes and obesity that appear to be promising at early stages of development, none of these potential products may reach the commercial market for a number of reasons. Successful research and development of pharmaceutical products is high risk. Most products and development candidates fail to reach the market. Our success depends on the discovery of new drugs that we can commercialize. Our pipeline for our oncology and diabetes and obesity clinical programs is at an early stage. Other than the development of Tarceva for additional indications, there is currently one oncology candidate in clinical trials, OSI-930. This candidate, which is currently in Phase I trials, targets the co-inhibition of c-kit/ VEGFR-2 receptor. Our lead clinical candidate for diabetes is PSN9301, a DPIV inhibitor that targets type 2 diabetes, which completed Phase IIa. We have temporarily suspended development of PSN9301 while we seek a partnering opportunity for this clinical candidate to offset development costs. Our oncology candidates, OSI-906, an IGF-1R inhibitor, and OSI-027, are currently in the pre-clinical stage of development. We are also developing PSN602, a S1RUP inhibitor, which is currently undergoing pre-clinical testing prior to entry into Phase I trials in the fourth quarter of 2007. Given the early stage of each of these clinical candidates, there can be no assurance at this time that any of them will become a marketed drug. The clinical candidates in our pipeline may never reach the market for a number of reasons. They may be found ineffective or may cause harmful side-effects during pre-clinical testing or clinical trials or fail to receive necessary regulatory approvals. Interim results of pre-clinical or clinical studies are not necessarily predictive of their final 26 results, and acceptable results in early studies might not be seen in later studies, in large part because earlier phases of studies are often conducted on smaller groups of patients than later studies, and without the same trial design features, such as randomized controls and long-term patient follow-up and analysis. We may find that certain products cannot be manufactured on a commercial scale and, therefore, they may not be economical to produce. Our products could also fail to achieve market acceptance or be precluded from commercialization by proprietary rights of third parties. We must provide the FDA and similar foreign regulatory authorities with pre-clinical and clinical data that demonstrate that our product candidates are safe and effective for each target indication before they can be approved for commercial distribution. The pre-clinical testing and clinical trials of any product candidates that we develop must comply with regulations by numerous federal, state and local government authorities in the United States, principally the FDA, and by similar agencies in other countries. Clinical development is a long, expensive and uncertain process and is subject to delays. We may encounter delays or rejections based on our inability to enroll or keep enrolled enough patients to complete our clinical trials, especially as new competitors are approved to enter into the market. Patient enrollment depends on many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the trial protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites and the eligibility criteria for the trial. Although we have not to date experienced any significant delays in enrolling clinical trial patients for our ongoing clinical trials, delays in patient enrollment for future trials may result in increased costs and delays, which could have a harmful effect on our ability to develop products. A significant portion of the research that we are conducting involves new and unproven technologies. Research programs to identify disease targets and product candidates require substantial technical, financial and human resources whether or not we ultimately identify any candidates. Our research programs may initially show promise in identifying potential product candidates, yet fail to yield candidates for clinical development for a number of reasons, including difficulties in formulation which cannot be overcome, inadequate intellectual property protection and timing and competitive concerns. A component of our business strategy is to enter into collaborations with third parties to research, develop and commercialize certain of our products, or to outlicense clinical candidates, when we believe that doing so will maximize product value or when the products or candidates are no longer considered to be part of our core business. We may not be successful in establishing such collaborations or entering into such license agreements, which could adversely affect the prospects for these products to become commercialized. A component of our business strategy is to enter into collaborations with third party collaborators for the research, development and commercialization of certain of our product candidates, or to outlicense our clinical candidates, when we believe that doing so will maximize the potential for the product. We face significant competition in seeking appropriate collaborators and licensees. Moreover, these collaboration arrangements and license agreements can be complex to negotiate and time consuming to document. We may not be successful in our efforts to establish additional collaborations or outlicensing arrangements. If we are unable to reach such agreements, we may fail to meet our business objectives for the relevant product or program. The terms of any additional collaborations or license agreements that we establish for our product candidates may not be as favorable to us than if we had pursued independent development and commercialization. Moreover, these collaborations or license agreements may not be successful and the termination of these arrangements might adversely affect our ability to develop, commercialize and market certain of our products. The success of any of these potential collaboration arrangements will depend heavily on the efforts and activities of our future collaborators and licensees. Our collaborators and licensees will have significant discretion in 27 determining the efforts and resources that they will apply to the products subject to these arrangements. The risks that we face in connection with these arrangements include the following: • Our collaborators and licensees may develop and commercialize, either alone or with others, products and services that are similar to or competitive with the products that are the subject of our arrangements with them; and • Our collaborators and licensees may change the focus of their development and commercialization efforts. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies historically have re-evaluated their priorities following mergers and consolidations, which have been common in recent years in these industries. The ability of our products to reach their potential could be limited if our collaborators and licensees decrease or fail to increase spending relating to such products. Our reliance on third parties, such as clinical research organizations, or CROs, may result in delays in completing, or a failure to complete, clinical trials if they fail to perform under our agreements with them. In the course of product development, we engage CROs to conduct and manage clinical studies. Because we have engaged and intend to continue to engage CROs to help us conduct our clinical studies and obtain market approval for our drug candidates, many important aspects of this process have been and will be out of our direct control. If the CROs fail to perform their obligations under our agreements with them or fail to perform their responsibilities with respect to clinical trials in compliance with good clinical practices, regulations and guidelines enforced by the FDA, we may face delays in completing our clinical trials, as well as commercialization of our drug candidates. Furthermore, any loss or delay in obtaining contracts with such entities may also delay the completion of our clinical trials and the market approval of drug candidates. We may not be able to make our required payments of interest and principal under our long-term indebtedness when due, and therefore we may face liquidity problems. Our long-term debt under our 3.25% convertible senior subordinated notes due 2023, or the 2023 Notes, and our 2.0% convertible senior notes due 2025, or the 2025 Notes, was $265 million as of December 31, 2006. Interest on the 2023 Notes accrues at the rate of 3.25% per annum and interest on the 2025 Notes accrues at a rate of 2% per annum. This amounts to interest payments of $2.4 million due and payable semi-annually on March 8 and September 8 of each year on the outstanding amount of the 2023 Notes. In addition, interest payments of $2.3 million are due and payable semi-annually on June 15 and December 15 of each year on the outstanding amount of the 2025 Notes. Cumulative interest payments of $80.4 million are scheduled to be paid between September 8, 2007 and September 8, 2023 on the 2023 Notes and $42.6 million between June 15, 2007 and December 15, 2025 on the 2025 Notes. The holders of the 2023 Notes have the right to require us to purchase all of the 2023 Notes, or a portion thereof, for cash, or at our option, shares of our common stock, in September of 2008, 2013 and 2018 and the holders of the 2025 Notes have the right to require us to purchase all of the 2025 Notes, or a portion thereof, for cash in December of 2010, 2015 and 2020. While we are currently generating sufficient net cash flow in excess of our operating budget to satisfy the our annual interest payments on the 2023 Notes and the 2025 Notes, there can be no assurances that we will be able to do so in the future. In addition, if the holders of the 2023 Notes or the 2025 Notes elect to require us to repurchase a significant portion of their notes in 2008 or 2010, respectively, we may not have sufficient net cash flow to repurchase these notes. While we are permitted to repurchase the 2023 Notes with our common stock in lieu of cash, the 2025 Notes must be repurchased with cash. This would require us to borrow additional funds or sell additional equity to meet these obligations, but there can be no guarantee that we will be able to raise such capital on favorable terms or at all. If we elect to repurchase our 2023 Notes with our common stock, our 28 stockholders will experience dilution and our stock price may decline. If we are unable to make our annual interest payments or repay the 2023 Notes or the 2025 Notes when due, we will default on our 2023 Notes and the 2025 Notes. Our long-term debt also may make it more difficult for us to obtain any necessary financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other purposes and make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business. Risks Relating to Regulatory Matters The manufacture and packaging of pharmaceutical products such as Tarceva and Macugen are subject to the requirements of the FDA and similar foreign regulatory bodies. If we or our third party manufacturers fail to satisfy these requirements, our or their product development and commercialization efforts may be materially harmed. The manufacture and packaging of pharmaceutical products, such as Tarceva and Macugen and our future product candidates, are regulated by the FDA and similar foreign regulatory bodies and must be conducted in accordance with the FDA’s cGMPs and comparable requirements of foreign regulatory bodies. There are a limited number of manufacturers that operate under these current good manufacturing practices regulations who are both capable of manufacturing our products, and willing to do so. Our failure or the failure of our third party manufacturers to comply with applicable regulations, requirements, or guidelines could result in sanctions being imposed on us or them, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our products, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of product, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect our business. We cannot be certain that we or our present or future suppliers will be able to comply with the pharmaceutical cGMP regulations or other FDA regulatory requirements. If we fail to meet our manufacturing obligations for Tarceva, our partner, Genentech, has the contractual right to take over the supply of Tarceva in the United States. Changes in the manufacturing process or procedure, including a change in the location where a product is manufactured or a change of a third party manufacturer, require prior FDA review and/or approval of the manufacturing process and procedures in accordance with the FDA’s cGMPs. This review may be costly and time consuming and could delay or prevent the launch of a product or the use of a facility to manufacture a product. In addition, if we elect to manufacture products at the facility of another third party, we will need to ensure that the new facility and the manufacturing process are in substantial compliance with cGMPs. Any such change in facility would be subject to a pre-approval inspection by the FDA and the FDA would require us to demonstrate product comparability. Foreign regulatory agencies have similar requirements. Any prolonged interruption in the operations of our contractor’s manufacturing facilities could result in cancellations of shipments, loss of product in the process of being manufactured, or a shortfall or stock-out of available product inventory, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business. A number of factors could cause prolonged interruptions in manufacturing. The FDA and similar foreign regulatory bodies may also implement new standards, or change their interpretation and enforcement of existing standards and requirements, for manufacture, packaging or testing of products at any time. If we are unable to comply, we may be subject to regulatory, civil actions or penalties which could significantly and adversely affect our business. For example, with regard to Macugen, as a result of a post-approval commitment to the FDA to improve the control and environment for our finished drug product, we will change the final presentation or packaging for Macugen. Such a change, when implemented, will lead to an increase in our cost of goods for Macugen. 29 If government agencies do not grant us or our collaborative partners required approvals for any of our potential products in a timely manner or at all, we or our collaborative partners will not be able to distribute or sell our products currently under development. All of our potential products must undergo extensive regulatory approval processes in the United States and other countries. These regulatory processes, which include pre-clinical testing and clinical trials of each compound to establish safety and efficacy, can take many years and require the expenditure of substantial resources. The FDA and the other regulatory agencies in additional markets which are material to us and our collaborative partners, including the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products and the Japanese Ministry of Health, may delay or deny the approval of our potential products. Although we have been successful in gaining regulatory approval for Tarceva and Macugen in the United States and our collaboration partners have gained approval for Tarceva and Macugen in Canada, the EU and a number of other territories, there can be no guarantee of subsequent approvals either for Tarceva and Macugen in other territories or for other indications in the United States or for other products in the United States and other territories. Delays or rejections may be encountered during any stage of the regulatory process based upon the failure of the clinical data to demonstrate compliance with, or upon the failure of the product to meet, a regulatory agency’s requirements for safety, efficacy and quality. Any such delay could have a negative effect on our business. A drug candidate cannot be marketed in the United States until it has been approved by the FDA. Once approved, drugs, as well as their manufacturers, are subject to continuing and ongoing review, and discovery of previously unknown problems with these products or the failure to adhere to manufacturing or quality control requirements may result in restrictions on their distribution, sale or use, or their withdrawal from the market. The FDA also has the authority, when approving a product, to impose significant limitations on the product in the nature of warnings, precautions and contra-indications, or restrictions on the indicated use, conditions for use, labeling, advertising, promotion, marketing, distribution, and/or production of the product that could negatively affect the profitability of a drug. Failure to comply with a Phase IV commitment can lead to FDA action either to withdraw approval of a drug or to limit the scope of approval. Furthermore, once a drug is approved, it remains subject to ongoing FDA regulation. Approved drugs can only be marketed for the indications and claims approved by the FDA. If we fail to comply with the FDA regulations prohibiting promotion of off-label uses and the promotion of products for which marketing clearance has not been obtained, the FDA, the Office of the Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, the Department of Justice, or state Attorney Generals could bring an enforcement action against us that would inhibit our marketing capabilities as well as result in significant penalties. Additional post-approval regulation by FDA includes changes to the product label, new or revised regulatory requirements for manufacturing practices, written advisements to physicians or a product recall. The current regulatory framework could change or additional regulations could arise at any stage during our product development or marketing, which may affect our ability to obtain or maintain approval of our products or require us to make significant expenditures to obtain or maintain such approvals. The ability to market and sell a drug product outside of the United States is also subject to stringent and, in some cases, equally complex regulatory processes that vary depending on the jurisdiction. Competitors could challenge our patents and file an ANDA or a 505(b)(2) new drug application for a generic or a modified version of Tarceva or Macugen and adversely affect our competitive position. Products approved for commercial marketing by the FDA are subject to the provisions of the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, or the Hatch-Waxman Act. The Hatch-Waxman Act provides companies with marketing exclusivity for varying time periods during which generic or modified versions of a drug 30 may not be marketed and allows companies to apply to extend patent protection for up to five additional years. It also provides a means for approving generic versions of a drug once the marketing exclusivity period has ended and all relevant patents have expired. The period of exclusive marketing, however, may be shortened if a patent is successfully challenged and defeated. Competitors with a generic or a modified version of Tarceva or Macugen may attempt to file an ANDA or a 505(b)(2) NDA and challenge our patents and marketing exclusivity. Such applications would have to certify that the patents in the Tarceva or Macugen NDA are invalid or not infringed by the manufacture, use, or sale of the product described in that ANDA or 505(b)(2) application under the Hatch-Waxman Act, referred to as a Paragraph IV certification. If successful, a competitor could come to market at an earlier time than expected. Since Tarceva and Macugen have five-year new chemical entity exclusivity, such a Paragraph IV challenge could not commence until at least late 2008. We can provide no assurances that we can prevail in a challenge or litigation related to our patents or exclusivity. Furthermore, regardless of the ultimate outcome of any litigation, the mere submission of such competitor application or the public announcement by a competitor that it intends to submit an application in the future may itself cause our stock price to decrease. Some of our activities may subject us to risks under federal and state laws prohibiting “kickbacks” and false or fraudulent claims, which could subject us to potential civil and criminal penalties and exclusion from federal healthcare programs. We are subject to the provisions of a federal law commonly known as the Medicare/Medicaid anti-kickback law, and several similar state laws, which prohibit, among other things, payments intended to induce physicians or others either to purchase or arrange for, or recommend the purchase of, healthcare products or services. While the federal law applies only to products or services for which payment may be made by a federal healthcare program, state laws may apply regardless of whether federal funds may be involved. These laws constrain the sales, marketing and other promotional activities of manufacturers of drugs such as us, by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements, including sales programs, with hospitals, physicians, and other potential purchasers of drugs. Other federal and state laws generally prohibit individuals or entities from knowingly and willfully presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent, or are for items or services that were not provided as claimed. Anti-kickback and false claims laws prescribe civil and criminal penalties for noncompliance that can be substantial, including the possibility of imprisonment, fines, and exclusion from federal healthcare programs (including Medicare and Medicaid). Pharmaceutical companies have been the target of lawsuits and investigations alleging violations of government regulation, including claims asserting violations of the federal False Claim Act, the federal Medicare/ Medicaid anti-kickback statute, and other violations in connection with off-label promotion of products and Medicare and/or Medicaid reimbursement, or related to claims under state laws, including state anti-kickback and false claims laws. While we continually strive to comply with these complex requirements, interpretations of the applicability of these laws to marketing practices is ever evolving and even an unsuccessful challenge could cause adverse publicity and be costly to respond to. If we do not receive adequate third-party reimbursement for the sales of our marketed products, we may not be able to sell such products on a profitable basis. Sales of our marketed products depend, in part, upon the extent to which the costs of our products are paid by health maintenance organizations, managed care, pharmacy benefit and similar reimbursement sources, or reimbursed by government health administration authorities, private health coverage insurers and other third-party payors. Such third-party payors continue to aggressively challenge the prices charged for healthcare products and services. Additionally, federal and state governments have prioritized the containment of healthcare costs, and drug prices have been targeted in this effort. If these organizations and third-party payors do not consider our products to 31 be cost-effective, they may not reimburse providers of our products, or the level of reimbursement may not be sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a profitable basis. In some foreign countries, particularly Canada and the EU countries, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take six to 12 months or longer after the receipt of regulatory marketing approval for a product. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of our products to other available therapies. Beginning January 1, 2006, Medicare beneficiaries could obtain expanded prescription drug coverage through a new Medicare drug benefit that is administered by private, Medicare approved drug plans. This voluntary benefit allows beneficiaries to choose among various Medicare prescription drug plans based on cost and scope of coverage. Generally, such plans include Tarceva within the scope of the plan, with beneficiaries having to pay various amounts of copayments when obtaining Tarceva. Since plans adjust their formularies on an annual basis, we cannot provide assurance that Tarceva will continue to be included in the same number of plans, and this could adversely affect our revenues. In addition, new legislation may be proposed that could change the Medicare prescription drug benefit and affect the payments for Tarceva under the program. The 2003 Medicare prescription drug coverage legislation, The Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act, or the MMA, and future legislative or regulatory reform of the healthcare system may affect our ability to sell certain of our products profitably. In both the United States and some non-U.S. jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that could affect our ability to sell certain of our products profitably. In the United States, new legislation may be proposed at the federal and state levels that would result in significant changes to the healthcare system, either nationally or at the state level. Effective January 2004, the MMA changed the methodology used to calculate reimbursement for drugs such as Macugen that are administered in physicians’ offices in a manner intended to reduce the amount that is subject to reimbursement. In addition, the legislation directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to contract with procurement organizations to purchase physician-administered drugs from the manufacturers and to provide physicians with the option to obtain drugs through these organizations as an alternative to purchasing from the manufacturers, which some physicians may find advantageous. These changes may also cause private insurers to reduce the amounts that they will pay for physician-administered drugs. Risks Related to Intellectual Property and Legal Matters If we or our collaborative partners are required to obtain licenses from third parties, our revenues and royalties on any commercialized products could be reduced. The development of some of our products may require the use of technology developed by third parties. The extent to which efforts by other researchers have resulted or will result in patents and the extent to which we or our collaborative partners are forced to obtain licenses from others, if available, on commercially reasonable terms is currently unknown. If we or our collaborative partners must obtain licenses from third parties, fees must be paid for such licenses, which would reduce the revenues and royalties we may receive on commercialized products. 32 If we cannot successfully protect, exploit or enforce our intellectual property rights, our ability to develop and commercialize our products, and receive revenues from licenses under our intellectual property, will be adversely affected. We hold numerous U.S. and foreign patents as well as trademarks and trade secrets; we also have many pending applications for additional patents. We intend to continue to seek patent protection for, or maintain as trade secrets, the potentially valuable intellectual property arising from our research and development activities, including commercially promising product candidates that we have discovered, developed or acquired. Our success depends, in part, on our ability and our collaborative partners’ ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for new product candidates, maintain trade secret protection and operate without infringing the valid and enforceable proprietary rights of third parties. As with most biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, our patent position is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. Without patent and other similar protection, other companies could offer the same or substantially identical products for sale without incurring the sizeable discovery and development costs that we have incurred. Our ability to recover these expenditures and realize profits upon the sale of products could be diminished. The process of obtaining patents can be time-consuming and expensive with no certainty of success. Even if we spend the necessary time and money, a patent may not issue or it may insufficiently protect the technology it was intended to protect. Even if issued, such issuance is not conclusive as to a patent’s validity or its enforceability. Our patents may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to prevent or stop competitors from marketing similar products or limit the length of term of patent protection we may have for our products. For example, our patent which claims the use of DPIV inhibitors for lowering blood glucose levels was revoked by the European Patent Office in May 2004. Although we are currently challenging the revocation of our patent by the European Patent Office, if we are unsuccessful in defending this opposition and the patent is revoked without possibility of appeal, this will reduce the potential royalty revenue we derive from the non-exclusive licenses we have granted under the revoked patent in those territories where the patent is revoked. We can never be certain that we were first to develop the technology or that we were first to file a patent application for the particular technology because most U.S. patent applications are confidential until a patent publishes or issues, and publications in the scientific or patent literature lag behind actual discoveries. If our pending patent applications are not approved for any reason or if we are unable to receive patent protection for additional proprietary technologies that we develop, the degree of future protection for our proprietary rights will remain uncertain. Third parties may independently develop similar or alternative technologies, duplicate some or all of our technologies, design around our patented technologies or challenge our pending or issued patents. Furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights effectively or to the same extent as the laws of the United States. In addition, some countries do not offer patent protection for certain biotechnology-related inventions. If our intellectual property rights are not adequately protected, we may not be able to commercialize our technologies, products or services and our competitors could commercialize our technologies, which could result in a decrease in our sales and market share that would harm our business and operating results. We are also party to a number of licenses that give us rights to third-party intellectual property that is necessary or useful to our business. Our success will depend in part on the ability of our licensors to obtain, maintain and enforce our licensed intellectual property, in particular, those patents to which we have secured exclusive rights. Our licensors may not successfully prosecute the patent applications to which we have licenses. Even if patents issue in respect of these patent applications, our licensors may fail to maintain these patents, may determine not to pursue litigation against other companies that are infringing these patents, or may pursue such litigation less aggressively than we would. Without protection for the intellectual property we license, other companies might to 33 able to offer substantially identical products for sale, which could adversely affect our competitive business position and harm our business prospects. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, the value of our technology and products could be negatively impacted. In addition to patented technology, we rely upon unpatented proprietary technology, trade secrets, processes, and know-how. We seek to protect this information in part by entering into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. The failure to prevail in litigation or the costs of litigation, including patent infringement claims, could harm our financial performance and business operations and could cause delays in product introductions. We are susceptible to litigation. For example, as a public company, we are subject to claims asserting violations of securities laws and derivative actions. In particular, we currently face a securities class action alleging violations of securities laws which are described in our filings with the SEC. In addition, as a biotechnology company, our processes and potential products may conflict with patents that have been or may be granted to competitors, academic institutions or others. We cannot ensure that our products or methods do not infringe upon the patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. As the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries expand and more patents are filed and issued, the risk increases that our patents or patent applications for our product candidates may give rise to a declaration of interference by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or to administrative proceedings in foreign patent offices, or that our activities lead to claims of patent infringement by other companies, institutions or individuals. These entities or persons could bring legal proceedings against us seeking substantial damages or seeking to enjoin us from researching, developing, manufacturing or marketing our products, which could result in substantial costs and harm our reputation. If any of these actions are successful, we may not only be required to pay substantial damages for past use of the asserted intellectual property but we may also be required to cease the infringing activity or obtain the requisite licenses or rights to use the technology, that may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. Litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time. Litigation is inherently unpredictable and we may incur substantial expense in defending ourselves or asserting our rights in the litigation to which we are currently subject, or in new lawsuits or claims brought against us. Litigation can be expensive to defend, regardless of whether a claim has merit, and the defense of such actions may divert the attention of our management that would otherwise be engaged in running our business and utilize resources that would otherwise be used for the business. In the event of an adverse determination in a lawsuit or proceeding, or our failure to license essential technology, our sales could be harmed and/or our costs increase, which would harm our financial condition and our stock price may decline. While we currently maintain insurance that we believe is adequate, we are subject to the risk that our insurance will not be sufficient to cover claims. The use of any of our potential products in clinical trials and the sale of any approved products exposes us to liability claims. The nature of our business exposes us to potential liability risks inherent in the research, development, manufacturing and marketing of drug candidates and products. If any of our drug candidates in clinical trials or our marketed products harm people or allegedly harm people, we may be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims. Many patients who participate in clinical trials are already ill when they enter a trial. The waivers we 34 obtain may not be enforceable and may not protect us from liability or the costs of product liability litigation. While we currently maintain product liability insurance that we believe is adequate, we are subject to the risk that our insurance will not be sufficient to cover claims. There is also a risk that adequate insurance coverage will not be available in the future on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. The successful assertion of an uninsured product liability or other claim against us could cause us to incur significant expenses to pay such a claim, could adversely affect our product development and could cause a decline in our product revenues. Even a successfully defended product liability claim could cause us to incur significant expenses to defend such a claim, could adversely affect our product development and could cause a decline in our product revenues. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price remains highly volatile which could make it difficult for our stockholders to resell our common stock. If our stock price falls, our stockholders may not be able to sell their stock when desired or at desirable prices. When the stock prices of companies in the Nasdaq Biotechnology Index fall, our stock price will most likely fall as well. The stock price of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, including our stock price, has been volatile and may remain volatile for the foreseeable future. The following factors, among others, some of which are beyond our control, may also cause our stock price to decline: • a decline in sales of our marketed products; • a decline in our business operating results or prospects; • announcement or launching of technological innovations or new therapeutic products by third parties; • positive or negative clinical efficacy or safety results from our competitors’ products; • public concern as to the safety of our products and potential products; • comments by securities analysts regarding us or our competitors and general market conditions; • future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock by us or existing stockholders; • negative developments concerning strategic alliance agreements; • changes in government regulation, including pricing controls, that impact our products; • negative or neutral clinical trial results; • delays with the FDA in the approval process for products and clinical candidates; and • developments in laws or regulations that impact our patent or other proprietary rights. Our governance documents and state law provide certain anti-takeover measures which will discourage a third party from seeking to acquire us and may impede the ability of stockholders to remove and replace our board of directors and, therefore, our management. We have had a shareholder rights plan, commonly referred to as a “poison pill,” since January 1999. The purpose of the shareholder rights plan is to protect stockholders against unsolicited attempts to acquire control of us that do not offer a fair price to our stockholders as determined by our board of directors. Under the plan, the acquisition of 17.5% or more of our outstanding common stock by any person or group, unless approved by our board of directors, will trigger the right of our stockholders (other than the acquiror of 17.5% or more of our common stock) to acquire additional shares of our common stock, and, in certain cases, the stock of the potential acquiror, at a 50% discount to market price, thus significantly increasing the acquisition cost to a potential acquiror. 35 The shareholder rights plan may have the effect of dissuading a potential hostile acquiror from making an offer for our common stock at a price that represents a premium to the then-current trading price. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain certain additional anti-takeover protective devices. For example, • no stockholder action may be taken without a meeting, without prior notice and without a vote; solicitations by consent are thus prohibited; • special meetings of stockholders may be called only by our board of directors, or by our stockholders holding 20% of our outstanding shares upon 90 days prior written notice; • nominations by stockholders of candidates for election to the board of directors at our annual meeting of stockholders must be made at least 45 days prior to the anniversary of the date on which we first mailed our proxy materials for the prior year’s annual meeting of stockholders; and • our board of directors has the authority, without further action by the stockholders, to fix the rights and preferences, and issue shares, of preferred stock. An issuance of preferred stock with dividend and liquidation rights senior to the common stock and convertible into a large number of shares of common stock could prevent a potential acquiror from gaining effective economic or voting control. Further, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which, subject to certain exceptions, restricts certain transactions and business combinations between a corporation and a stockholder owning 15% or more of the corporation’s outstanding voting stock for a period of three years from the date the stockholder becomes a 15% stockholder. In addition to discouraging a third party from acquiring control of us, the foregoing provisions could impair the ability of existing stockholders to remove and replace our management and/or our board of directors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved staff comments. 