Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent to the nature of our business as a bank holding company. Like other financial institutions, we are subject to a number of risks, many of which are outside our control. We make every effort to manage those risks while maximizing returns. The Federal Reserve Board has identified six major categories of risk associated with financial institutions which include: • Credit risk. The risk to earnings or capital arising from a borrower’s failure to meet the terms of an obligation with us. • Market risk. The risk to our earnings or capital arising from adverse movements in market rates or prices, such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates or equity prices. 17 Table of Contents • Liquidity risk. The risk to our earnings and capital arising from the inability to meet our obligations when they come due, because of an inability to liquidate assets or obtain adequate funding. • Operational risk. The risk that arises from the potential that inadequate information systems, operational problems, internal control breaches, fraud, or unforeseen catastrophes will result in unexpected losses. • Legal risk. The risk that arises from the potential that unenforceable contracts, lawsuits, or adverse judgements can disrupt or otherwise negatively affect our operations or financial position. • Reputational risk. The potential that negative publicity regarding our business practices, whether true or not, will result in a decline in our customer base, costly litigation or revenue reductions. The most significant risks in each category that we believe affect us are described below. An investor should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. Credit Risk Adverse changes in the economic conditions in general, and in our market area specifically, could negatively impact our results of operations and financial position. Our business is directly impacted by factors such as economic, political and market conditions and government monetary and fiscal policies. A deterioration in economic conditions, whether caused by national or local concerns, in particular an economic slowdown in our market area, could result in the following consequences, any of which could adversely affect our business: • Customers’ credit quality may deteriorate; • Collateral securing loans may decline in value; • Loan delinquencies may increase; • Problem assets and foreclosures may increase; and • Demand for products and services may decrease. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses. We maintain our allowance for loan losses, through a provision for loan losses charged to earnings, at a level we believe adequate to absorb probable credit losses related to specifically identified loans, as well as probable incurred losses for groups of loans collectively evaluated in the 18 Table of Contents remainder of the loan portfolio, as of the balance sheet date. The level of the allowance considered adequate to absorb probable losses for specifically identified loans is based on estimates of the present value of expected future cash flows or the appraised fair value of the loan’s underlying collateral. We consider both historical loss experience and a number of current environmental factors when determining the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses for groups of loans sharing similar risk. The determination of the allowance for loan loss level is inherently subjective as it requires estimates that are susceptible to significant change. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors which may be outside our control, may require us to increase the level of our allowance for loan losses. Market Risk Changes in interest rates could negatively impact our operating results or financial position. Our earnings depend largely upon net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on interest-earning assets, loans and investments, and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities, deposits and borrowings. Interest rates are highly sensitive and are influenced by monetary and fiscal policy and economic and political conditions. Specifically, conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply and other factors beyond our control may affect interest rates. If our interest-bearing liabilities mature or reprice more quickly than interest-earning assets in a rising rate environment, our net interest income could be adversely impacted. Conversely, in a falling rate environment, if our interest-earning assets mature or reprice more quickly than interest-bearing liabilities, net interest income could be adversely impacted. Interest rate changes also affect the underlying economic value of our assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet items. These changes arise because the present value of future cash flows, and often the cash flows themselves, change with interest rates. The effects of the changes in these present values reflect the change in our underlying economic value, and provide a basis for the expected change in future earnings related to interest rates. Liquidity Risk If we fail to attract core deposits, our liquidity may be adversely impacted and we may have to seek alternative and more expensive funding sources. Adequate liquidity is essential to our continuing operations as it affords us the ability to meet our financial obligations as they come due. Our financial obligations include, among others, funding new and existing loan 19 Table of Contents commitments, repaying deposit liabilities and other borrowings as they come due and paying for operating expenses. Historically, core deposits have been our primary source of liquidity because they are more stable and less expensive in comparison to other sources of funds. We may be unable to attract core deposits due to adverse economic conditions, increased competition or other reasons. As a result, we may have to seek alternative funding sources available to us, such as liquidating available-for-sale investment securities and exercising existing credit arrangements with the Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh, which could negatively impact our operating results by increasing our funding costs. Operational Risk The banking and financial services industry is highly competitive, which could adversely affect our operating results or financial position. We operate in a highly competitive industry and compete for loan and deposit products primarily with numerous commercial banks, thrifts and credit unions in Northeastern Pennsylvania. In addition, we experience competition from finance, mortgage banking and insurance companies and securities firms. Many of our competitors are larger with respect to asset size and are subject to less stringent regulatory restrictions as banks and bank holding companies. As a result, they may be able to offer specialized products and services we cannot, and operate with greater flexibility and at a lower cost. In addition, technology has lowered entry barriers into the industry, increased the geographical market area through Internet banking and made it possible for nonbanks to offer products and services traditionally provided only by banks. These competitive pressures could result in loss of business or we could be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to attract or retain customers, either of which would negatively impact our operating results and financial position. Our internal controls and procedures may fail to work as expected or be circumvented. We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policy and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, can only provide reasonable, but not absolute assurance that the objectives of the system are met. On a daily basis, we are subject to risk resulting from, among others, breaches of internal control systems and compliance requirements, fraud by persons inside and outside the company, the execution of unauthorized transactions by employees and transaction processing errors. Any of these circumstances could result in loss, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. 20 Table of Contents Extended disruption of infrastructure due to external events could adversely affect our operating results or financial position. Our operations depend upon, among other things, our infrastructure, including equipment and facilities. Natural disasters, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure, computer viruses, terrorism and other events outside of our control, could cause an extended disruption of our vital infrastructure and result in loss of revenue and/or cause us to incur additional unexpected expenses. In addition, certain events could affect the stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or impair the value of collateral securing loans. Although we have established business continuity and disaster recovery plans and procedures, the occurrence of any one of these events could still disrupt or delay normal operations and have a similar impact on our customers and suppliers, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operation or financial position. New or changes to existing regulatory laws, accounting principles and interpretations, and security and tax laws could significantly impact our results of operations or financial position. The financial services industry is highly regulated. We are subject to extensive federal and state banking regulations that are designed to protect depositors and loan customers. These regulations may limit our ability to offer new products and services, obtain financing, attract deposits and originate loans. These regulations, along with accounting principles and security and tax laws, constantly evolve and change over time. They control how we conduct business and implement strategic initiatives and govern our financial reporting and disclosures. In addition, the failure of several major United States companies has resulted in legislators, regulators, the SEC, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the Public Accounting Oversight Board and other authorities proposing or adopting substantial revisions to laws, regulations and standards. Changes to laws, regulations or standards could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Failure to comply with laws, regulations and rules could result in sanctions by regulatory authorities, civil money penalties and/or reputational damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or financial position. We depend on the service of our executive officers and the ability to attract and retain skilled people. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our executive officers and our ability to attract and retain skilled people. Competition for such personnel can be intense in the financial services industry and we may not be able to hire or retain the people we want or need. Unexpected loss of one or more of our key personnel could 21 Table of Contents occur and may have a material adverse impact on our business because of the loss of employee skills, knowledge of our market, years of experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacements. Legal Risk We may be a defendant in litigation or other actions. Although we are currently not a party to any material litigation, future litigation that may arise during the normal course of business could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position, as well as, cause significant damage to our reputation in the communities we serve. Reputational Risk Negative public opinion could damage our reputation. As a financial institution, our business can be significantly impacted by negative public opinion. Negative public opinion could result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including, among others, lending practices, corporate governance, employment practices, criminal activities, insider trading and from actions taken by law enforcement and regulators in response to those activities. Negative public opinion could adversely impact our ability to attract and retain customers and can expose us to litigation and regulatory actions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. Our information systems may experience a breach in security. We collect, process and retain sensitive and confidential customer information as part of our business as a financial institution. Although we have security measures in place, our information systems may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer hacking and viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming or human errors or other similar events. Any breach in security involving misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential customer information could severely damage our reputation and expose us to litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial position. 