Risk Factors The following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial results and results of operations. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K because these factors could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Investing in our common stock involves risks, including those described below. These risks are not the only ones that we face. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. 9 Factors Which May Affect Operating Results Semiconductor companies as a group are subject to many similar risks. These include the risks that (1) the demand for semiconductors decreases, as the industry has historically been very cyclical; (2) there are shortages of raw materials and/or fab capacity; or (3) there are changes in underlying circuit or process technology or fab technology. Other factors that could affect our future results include whether we can generate new bookings from both new and current products; general economic conditions, both in the United States and foreign markets, and economic conditions specific to the semiconductor industry; risks associated with customer concentration; our ability to introduce new products, to enhance existing products, and to meet the continually changing requirements of our customers; our ability to maintain and enhance relationships with our assembly and test subcontractors and independent distributors and sales representatives; and whether we can manufacture efficiently and control costs. In addition, we are subject to the risks described below, which are specific to our business: · The semiconductor industry is historically cyclical and subject to significant volatility. During the second half of fiscal 2009 through the first half of fiscal 2010, the severe global economic downturn caused substantial reduction in demand for our products, thereby adversely affecting our financial results. We are subject to continued fluctuations which could affect future revenues, profit and cash. Many factors affect demand for our products, including credit availability, rising interest rates, consumer spending pricing levels, and costs of materials. There can be no assurance that if the global economy recovers that our sales will increase commensurately. · We have focused our product offerings primarily on niche markets which leverage our capabilities and in which we believe we have dominance because we are a technology enabler for our customers. We generally choose markets which are sizable enough to be worth pursuing but which are not large enough to attract fierce competition. These markets could grow sufficiently to attract increased competition or else competitors could enter due to happenstance or downturns elsewhere. One of our emerging markets is driver ICs for LED lighting and backlighting, which has begun to grow and is expected to become a large market during the next few years and is beginning to attract severe competition. In addition, our niche markets might be more susceptible to shrinkage than more diverse markets due to their concentration on a few product offerings. · We work with our customers to develop products that they will design into their systems. Even if we do achieve a design win, the customer’s system may never go into production or the production volume may be smaller than we had anticipated. Although we attempt to develop products which will be useful for multiple customers, we may misjudge the market and develop a product which may be useful for only a very few customers. · A significant portion of our sales are from a small number of customers and the loss of the one of these customers or failure to collect a receivable from them could adversely affect our operations and financial position. We do not have a long-term distributorship agreement with any of our distributors. Normal terms and conditions of sale apply, which include a 60-day notice of cancellation and charges for work-in-process for cancellations less than 60 days from shipment. While we have maintained a good relationship with our significant customers and distributors, deterioration in that relationship could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. We estimate that the combined sales to Samsung Electronics and General Electric Company accounted for a total of 14% and 11% , respectively, of our net sales for the fiscal year ended April 3, 2010. · We have several competitors that are substantially larger and could bring to bear substantially more resources than we have in our niche markets. We have been able to maintain profitable margins in part because of our dominance in most of our niche markets. Increased competition could cause our margins to decrease. 10 · We sell a substantial amount of our products internationally. International sales represent 68%, 63% and 63% and of net sales, for fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We expect our international sales to continue to account for a significant portion of our total sales. We also package and test most of our products abroad. Problems with foreign economies, political turmoil, wars, epidemics, fluctuations in currency exchange rate, increased freight costs, interruptions in air transportation, and generally longer receivable collection periods could disrupt our business and increase our operating expenses. · Our gross margins may fluctuate depending on many factors, including but not limited to, our product mix, competitive pricing dynamics, product yields, various manufacturing costs, plant utilization, provisions for excess and obsolete inventory, absorption of manufacturing overhead, product warranties, and returns and allowances. · We are dependent upon one fab which we own and operate. Were this fab to become unable to meet our needs for causes such as obsolescence due to process technology changes, our ability to produce our products would be adversely affected. In addition, we could encounter difficulties in operating our fab after an earthquake or any natural disaster. · Our operations may be interrupted and our business would be harmed in the event of an earthquake, terrorist act, and other disasters. Our principal executive offices, our fab facility, and major suppliers are located in areas that have been subject to severe earthquakes. In the event of an earthquake, we and/or our major suppliers may be temporarily unable to continue operations and may suffer significant property damage. Any such interruption in our ability or that of our major suppliers to continue operations at our facilities could delay the development and shipment of our products. Like other U.S. companies, our business and operating results are subject to uncertainties arising out of the economic consequences of current and potential military actions or additional terrorist activities and associated political instability, and the impact of heightened security concerns on domestic and international travel and commerce. Such uncertainties could also lead to delays or cancellations of customer orders, a general decrease in corporate spending or our inability to effectively market and sell our products. Any of these results could substantially harm our business and results of operations, causing a decrease in our revenues. · We are dependent upon continued innovation by our engineers. The competition for engineers with relevant experience is extremely intense in the Silicon Valley, where most of our engineers are located. We must compete in terms of salary, benefits, and working conditions with many start-ups which can offer more equity incentives. We established an IC Design Center in Hong Kong in fiscal 2001 where competition for qualified engineers is not as intense as that in Silicon Valley. However, a majority of our process technology and product innovation activities remains in our Sunnyvale and San Jose offices. · Our success depends upon our ability to protect our intellectual property, including patents, trade secrets, and know-how, and to continue our technological innovation. We cannot assure that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property will be adequate to prevent misappropriation or that others will not develop competitive technologies or products. The failure to obtain necessary licenses or other rights could cause us to lose market share and harm our business. · We are dependent upon the continued service of several of our key management and technical personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of our engineers, executive officers and other key personnel or our inability to recruit replacements for, or to attract, retain and motivate these individuals would be harmful to our business. We do not have long-term employment contracts with our employees. · We operate a fab in San Jose, California, at which we use various chemicals and solvents that are regulated by various environmental agencies. We cooperate and work with these agencies to comply with these regulations. Should we nonetheless inadvertently contaminate the soil or ground water, or should the previous operator of the fab have done so, we may be responsible for significant costs to remediate the situation As of March 28, 2009, we estimated our asset retirement obligation to be $51,000. During fiscal 2010, we reassessed and increased our asset retirement obligation by $275,000. As of April 3, 2010, we estimated our asset retirement obligation to be $326,000. 11 · Failure to comply with present or future laws, rules and regulations of any kind that govern our business could result in suspension of all or a portion of production, cessation of all or a portion of operations, or the imposition of significant administrative, civil, or criminal penalties, any of which could harm our business. Depending on whether certain of our semiconductor products are subject to control under the International Traffic and Arms Regulations (“ITAR”), certain of our testing and assembly operations offshore with respect to such products may have violated ITAR. We have accordingly so voluntarily notified the US Department of State recently and are investigating the situation and circumstances. Should our actions have violated ITAR, we could face substantial civil fines or other penalties at the discretion of the US Department of State. · A director of and the President and CEO of the Company, Henry Pao, along with his brother, Frank Pao, and the estate of their late father, Yunni Pao, collectively own approximately 13% of our outstanding stock. They have no agreement among themselves to act together with respect to the Company or their stockholdings. However, were they to act in concert, they would be our largest beneficial shareholder and may have the ability to elect one or more directors, to direct management, and to delay or prevent a change in control. · We are subject to taxation by domestic and foreign taxing authorities. Our business is subject to the application of multiple and sometimes conflicting tax laws and regulations. The application of tax laws is subject to legal and factual interpretation, judgment and uncertainty, and tax laws themselves are subject to change. Consequently, taxing authorities from various jurisdictions may impose tax assessments or judgments against us that could result in a significant change to earnings related to prior periods, and or an increase in our effective income tax rate. · The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 required us to change or supplement some of our corporate governance and securities disclosure and compliance practices. The SEC and NASDAQ have revised, and continue to revise their regulations and listing standards. These developments have increased and may continue to increase our legal compliance and financial reporting costs. These developments also may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. This, in turn, could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors or qualified executive officers. · We invest our excess cash in marketable securities consisting primarily of auction rate securities (“ARS”), municipal bonds, and money market funds. As of the end of fiscal year 2010, the ARS we owned had a par value of $69,200,000. Since the fourth fiscal quarter of 2008, the ARS market has experienced failures. The funds associated with securities that experienced failed auctions will not be accessible until a successful auction occurs, a buyer is found outside of the auction process, or the underlying securities have matured or are recalled by the issuer. Given the recent disruptions in the credit markets and the fact that the liquidity for these types of securities remains uncertain, as of April 3, 2010, we classified the majority of our ARS as long-term assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheet, as our ability to liquidate such securities in the next 12 months is uncertain. We have also recorded a $4,200,000 temporary decline in fair value for these investments, which in accordance with the authoritative guidance, has been recorded in Other Comprehensive Loss. We believe that we will be able to recover these securities at par value in a future period, as they are AAA or Aaa rated and, are guaranteed by the United States Department of Education. However, there is no assurance that we will be able to settle these bonds and recover the cash, nor if we do recover the cash, when this may occur. We may have to incur further impairment if the auctions of our securities continue to fail. If the fair value of these investments declines permanently or is other than temporarily impaired, we would be required to take an impairment charge which would flow through our income statement as an expense and could cause us to incur a loss for the relevant fiscal period. 12 · Stock option accounting rules require charges to income due to stock compensation associated with options and result in lower reported operating results prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The additional expenses resulting from the authoritative guidance in stock compensation may negatively impact our future stock price if we continue to utilize broad-based employee stock plans to attract and retain employees or else, if we cease doing so and others do not, it could result in a competitive disadvantage to us in the employee marketplace. · Our stock price is subject to wide fluctuations from many factors such as changing financial market conditions, variations in our quarterly operating results, changes in estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, hedging of our stock and other transactions by investors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 