ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business and financial results are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those set forth below and in other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The rates we charge customers for gas distribution services are established by the OPUC and the WUTC. The failure to approve rates which provide for recovery of our costs and an adequate return on invested capital may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. The rates and terms at which the utility resells gas to its customers or transports gas owned by large customers from the interstate pipeline connection to the customers’ facilities must be approved by 18 Table of Contents the OPUC or the WUTC. The rates are designed to allow us to recover costs of providing such services and to earn an adequate return on our capital investment. We expect to continue to make significant capital expenditures to expand and improve our distribution system. The failure of the OPUC or the WUTC to approve on a timely basis requested rate increases to recover increased costs or to allow an adequate return could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Higher natural gas commodity prices and fluctuations in the price of gas may adversely affect our earnings. In recent years, natural gas commodity prices have increased dramatically due to growing demand, especially for power generation, and stagnant North American gas production. In Oregon, the utility has a Purchased Gas Adjustment (PGA) tariff which provides for annual revisions in rates resulting from changes in the cost of purchased gas. The PGA tariff provides that 33 percent of any difference between actual purchased gas costs and estimated purchased gas costs incorporated into rates will be recognized as current income or expense. Accordingly, higher gas costs than those assumed in setting rates can adversely affect our results of operations. Notwithstanding our current rate structure, higher gas costs could result in increased pressure on the OPUC or the WUTC to seek other means to reduce rates to a level that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our risk management policies and hedging activities cannot eliminate the risk of commodity price movements and may expose us to additional liabilities for which rate recovery may be disallowed. Our gas purchasing requirements expose us to risks of commodity price movements. We attempt to manage our exposure through enforcement of established risk limits and risk management procedures, including hedging activities. These risk limits and risk management procedures may not always work as planned and cannot eliminate the risks associated with gas purchasing and hedging. These practices are subject to regulatory review in setting our PGA tariffs and, if found to be imprudent, could be disallowed. Our results of operations may be negatively affected by warmer than average weather. A large portion of the utility’s margin is derived from sales to space heating residential and commercial customers between November 15 and May 15 of each winter heating season. Current rates are based on an assumption of average weather. Although we have a weather normalization mechanism in effect in Oregon, approximately 10 percent of our residential and commercial customers are in Washington, where the mechanism is not in effect, and about 9 percent of the eligible Oregon customers elected not to be covered by the mechanism, so the mechanism does not fully insulate us from utility earnings volatility due to weather. Also, customer usage between May 15 and November 15 is not subject to the weather normalization mechanism. As a result, we are not fully protected against warmer than average weather, which may have an adverse affect on our results of operations. Customers’ conservation efforts may have a negative impact on our revenues. Higher gas costs and rates may result in increased conservation by customers, which can decrease sales and adversely affect results of operations. The OPUC authorized our conservation tariff, which is designed to recover lost margin due to changes in residential and commercial customers’ consumption patterns. The conservation tariff is intended to adjust for increases or decreases in consumption attributable to annual changes in commodity costs or periodic changes in general rates 19 Table of Contents and for deviations between actual and expected usage. The conservation tariff expires in September 2009. The failure of the OPUC to extend the conservation tariff in the future could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Certain of our properties and facilities may pose environmental risks requiring remediation, the cost of which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We own, or previously owned, properties that may require environmental remediation or other action. We accrue all material loss contingencies relating to these properties, but our results of operations may be adversely affected to the extent that estimates of the probable costs increase significantly as additional information on the cost of the remediation process is developed. Although a regulatory asset has been recorded for some of these estimated costs, we would be required to reduce such regulatory asset if we were unable to conclude that recovery of these costs through rates is probable. If this occurs and if such costs are not recoverable through insurance, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Also, we cannot predict with certainty the amount or timing of future expenditures related to the environmental investigation and remediation because of the difficulty of estimating such costs. There is also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on all potentially responsible parties. There are no assurances that existing environmental regulations will not be revised or that new regulations seeking to protect the environment will not be adopted or become applicable to us. Revised or additional regulations which result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from customers, could have a material effect on our results of operations. Our gas distribution business is subject to increased competition and eroding price advantage. To the extent that competition increases, our profit margins may be negatively affected. In the residential market, we compete with suppliers of electricity, fuel oil, propane and, to a lesser extent, wood. We also compete with electricity and fuel oil for commercial applications. In the industrial market, we compete with all forms of energy. Competition among these forms of energy is based on price, reliability, efficiency and performance. Higher natural gas prices have eroded or, in some cases, eliminated the competitive price advantage of natural gas over alternative energy sources. If the higher gas price environment is sustained, our ability to attract new customers could be significantly affected, which could have a negative impact on our customer growth rate and results of operations. We rely on a single pipeline for the transportation of gas to our service territory. We are largely dependent on a single, bi-directional pipeline for transportation of gas into our service territory. Our results of operations may be negatively impacted if there is a rupture in the pipeline and we incur costs associated with actions taken to mitigate disruption of service. Our results of operations may be impacted by utility regulation legislation enacted by state legislatures. On Aug. 1, 2005, the Oregon legislature passed Senate Bill 408, effective for taxes collected on or after Jan. 1, 2006, which requires the OPUC to establish an annual tax adjustment to ensure that 20 Table of Contents Oregon utilities do not collect in rates more income taxes than they actually pay to government entities. The bill, which was signed into law on Sept. 2, 2005, requires that the OPUC interpret the bill’s provisions to determine how the tax adjustment will be applied. Key provisions of the bill require utilities to determine the amount of taxes collected in rates, the amount of taxes paid to government entities and the amount of tax savings realized as a result of filing consolidated tax returns. Due to the uncertainties related to the OPUC’s interpretations and permanent rule making with respect to the application of these provisions, we are not able to determine at this time what impact, if any, the new legislation will have on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, but the impact may be material. Our larger industrial customers may switch between transportation and sales service on short notice, which could significantly impact our ability to forecast customer load requirements when contracting for gas supplies. Our larger commercial and industrial customers may elect to switch between sales and transportation service upon a minimum of 30 days formal notice. Upon switching forms of service, the customer is then obligated to remain on that type of service for at least 12 months, at which time they once again may elect to switch upon 30 days notice. In the case of customers switching from transportation to sales service, our regulatory tariff provides that the customer will be charged incremental gas supply costs. We face risks to the extent we must purchase or sell gas supplies to match up with customer load requirements that may change upon short notice from these customer elections, particularly if we are or would be providing sales service at a fixed price to the customer. The cost of providing pension and post-retirement benefit plans is subject to changes in pension assumptions, fluctuations in the market value of plan assets and changing demographics, and may have a material effect on our financial results. We maintain two qualified non-contributory defined benefit pension plans, several non-qualified supplemental pension plans and other post-retirement benefit plans. We may be required to recognize a material increase or decrease in annual pension or post-retirement benefit expense based on changes in assumed interest rates, market returns, rate of wage increases and other factors, and we may be required to record a charge to our balance sheet to the extent that benefit obligations exceed the fair value of the plan assets. Transporting and storing natural gas involves numerous risks that may result in accidents and other operating risks and costs. Our gas distribution activities involve a variety of inherent hazards and operating risks, such as leaks, accidents and mechanical problems, which could cause substantial financial losses. In addition, these risks could result in loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution and disruption of our operations, which in turn could lead to substantial losses. The occurrence of any of these events may not be covered by our insurance policies or recoverable through rates, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 