Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Investors should carefully consider the risk factors described below before making an investment decision. If any of the events described in the following risk factors occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially harmed. In that case the trading price of our common stock could decline, and investors may lose all or part of their investment. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of or that we currently deem immaterial may also become important factors that affect Repligen. This annual report on Form 10-K contains forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K. We are dependent on others to develop, conduct clinical trials for, manufacture, market and sell our principal products. We conduct some of our development activities, and conduct most of our commercialization activities, through collaborations. These collaborations include academic researchers as well as contracts with vendors. Our collaborations are heavily dependent on the efforts and activities of our collaborative partners. Our existing and any future collaborations may not be technically or commercially successful. For example, if any of our collaborative partners were to breach or terminate an agreement with us, reduce its funding or otherwise fail to conduct the collaboration successfully, we may need to devote additional internal resources to the program that is the subject of the collaboration, scale back or terminate the program or seek an alternative partner, any of which could lead to delays in development and/or commercialization of our products. We depend on, and expect to continue to depend on, a limited number of customers for a high percentage of our revenues. As a result, the loss of, or a significant reduction in orders from, any of these customers would significantly reduce our revenues and harm our results of operations. If a large customer purchases fewer of our products, defers orders or fails to place additional orders with us, our revenue could decline, and our operating results may not meet market expectations. In addition, if those customers order our products, but fail to pay on time or at all, our liquidity and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Royalty revenue from Bristol-Myers Squibb Company for sales of Orencia® could fail to materialize. Our royalty agreement with Bristol provides for us to receive payments from Bristol based on their net sales of their Orencia® product in the United States through December 31, 2013. We have no control over Bristol’s sales and marketing practices for Orencia®, and Bristol has no obligation to use commercially reasonable efforts to sell Orencia®. Bristol’s sales could be significantly impacted by regulatory and market influences beyond our control, resulting in low or even no royalty revenue for us. Our research activities may not identify a clinical candidate with appropriate efficacy, safety and pharmacology to support clinical trials in humans. In order to conduct Phase 1 clinical trials in humans, we must first demonstrate suitable efficacy, safety and pharmacology characteristics of any potential drug candidates. If we are unsuccessful in these efforts, we may be forced to identify alternative drug candidates at substantial cost, or possibly abandon certain pre-clinical research activities. 10 Table of Contents Our clinical trials may not be successful and we may not be able to develop and commercialize related products. In order to obtain regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of our future therapeutic products, we and our collaborative partners will be required to complete extensive clinical trials in humans to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of the products. We have limited experience in conducting clinical trials. The submission of an IND application may not result in FDA authorization to commence clinical trials. If clinical trials begin, we or our collaborative partners may not complete testing successfully within any specific time period, if at all, with respect to any of our products. Furthermore, we, our collaborative partners, or the FDA, may suspend clinical trials at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the subjects or patients are being exposed to unacceptable health risks. Clinical trials, if completed, may not show any potential product to be safe or effective. Thus, the FDA and other regulatory authorities may not approve any of our potential products for any indication. The rate of completion of clinical trials is dependent in part upon the rate of enrollment of patients. Patient enrollment is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the study, and the existence of competitive clinical trials. Delays in planned patient enrollment may result in increased costs and delays in completion of clinical trials. We may not obtain regulatory approvals; the approval process is costly and lengthy. We must obtain regulatory approval for our ongoing development activities and before marketing or selling any of our future therapeutic products. We may not receive regulatory approvals to conduct clinical trials of our products or to manufacture or market our products. In addition, regulatory agencies may not grant such approvals on a timely basis or may revoke previously granted approvals. The process of obtaining FDA and other required regulatory approvals, such as the approval we are seeking with our NDA submission for RG1068, is lengthy and may be expensive. The time required for FDA and other clearances or approvals is uncertain and typically takes a number of years, depending on the complexity and novelty of the product. Our RG1068 NDA submission to the FDA will be based on a single re-read of our Phase 3 trial results. The FDA may not deem this to be sufficient for approval. Our analysis of data obtained from preclinical and clinical activities is subject to confirmation and interpretation by regulatory authorities, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Any delay in obtaining or failure to obtain required clearance or approvals could materially adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the affected product. We have only limited experience in filing and prosecuting applications necessary to gain regulatory approvals. We are also subject to numerous foreign regulatory requirements governing the design and conduct of the clinical trials and the manufacturing and marketing of our future products. The approval procedure varies among countries. The time required to obtain foreign approvals often differs from that required to obtain FDA approvals. Moreover, approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries (or vice versa). All of the foregoing regulatory risks also are applicable to development, manufacturing and marketing undertaken by our collaborative partners or other third parties. Even if we obtain marketing approval, our therapeutic products will be subject to ongoing regulatory review, which may be expensive and may affect our ability to successfully commercialize our products. Even if we or our collaborative partners receive regulatory approval of a product, such approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed, which may limit the size of the market for the product or contain requirements for costly post-marketing follow-up studies. The 11 Table of Contents manufacturers of our products for which we or our collaborative partners have obtained marketing approval will be subject to continued review and periodic inspections by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. The subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with the product, clinical trial subjects, or with a manufacturer or facility may result in restrictions on the product or manufacturer, including withdrawal of the product from the market. If we or our collaborative partners fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions, and criminal prosecution. If we are unable to obtain, maintain and enforce patents or regulatory exclusivity (orphan drug or new chemical entity exclusivity) for our products, we may not be able to succeed commercially. We endeavor to obtain and maintain patent and trade secret protection for our products and processes when available in order to protect them from unauthorized use and to produce a financial return consistent with the significant time and expense required to bring our products to market. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to: • obtain and maintain patent protection for our products and manufacturing processes; • preserve our trade secrets; • operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties; and • secure licenses from others on acceptable terms. We cannot be sure that any patent applications relating to our products that we will file in the future or that any currently pending applications will issue on a timely basis, if ever. Since patent applications in the United States filed prior to November 2000 are maintained in secrecy until patents issue and since publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lag behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that we were the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications or that we were the first to file patent applications for such inventions. Even if patents are issued, the degree of protection afforded by such patents will depend upon the: • scope of the patent claims; • validity and enforceability of the claims obtained in such patents; and • our willingness and financial ability to enforce and/or defend them. The patent position of biotechnology and pharmaceutical firms is often highly uncertain and usually involves complex legal and scientific questions. Moreover, no consistent policy has emerged in the United States or in many other countries regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology patents. Patents which may be granted to us in certain foreign countries may be subject to opposition proceedings brought by third parties or result in suits by us, which may be costly and result in adverse consequences for us. In some cases, litigation or other proceedings may be necessary to assert claims of infringement, to enforce patents issued to us or our licensors, to protect trade secrets, know-how or other intellectual property rights we own or to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of third parties. Such litigation could result in substantial cost to us and diversion of our resources. An adverse outcome in any such litigation or proceeding could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our competitors prepare and file patent applications in the United States that claim technology also claimed by us, we may be required to participate in interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention, which would result in substantial costs to us. 12 Table of Contents Since some of our U.S. patents covering recombinant Protein A have expired, we may face increased competition which could harm our results of operations, financial condition, cash flow and future prospects. Other companies could begin manufacturing and selling recombinant Protein A in the U.S. and may directly compete with us on certain Protein A products. This may induce us to sell Protein A at lower prices and may erode our market share which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, cash flow and future prospects. Our freedom to develop our product candidates may be challenged by others, and we may have to engage in litigation to determine the scope and validity of competitors’ patents and proprietary rights, which, if we do not prevail, could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flow and future prospects. There has been substantial litigation and other proceedings regarding the complex patent and other intellectual property rights in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. We have been a party to, and in the future may become a party to, patent litigation or other proceedings regarding intellectual property rights. Other types of situations in which we may become involved in patent litigation or other intellectual property proceedings include: • We may initiate litigation or other proceedings against third parties to seek to invalidate the patents held by such third parties or to obtain a judgment that our products or services do not infringe such third parties’ patents. • We may initiate litigation or other proceedings against third parties to seek to enforce our patents against infringement. • If our competitors file patent applications that claim technology also claimed by us, we may participate in interference or opposition proceedings to determine the priority of invention. • If third parties initiate litigation claiming that our processes or products infringe their patent or other intellectual property rights, we will need to defend against such claims. The cost to us of any patent litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the cost of such litigation or proceedings more effectively than we can because of their substantially greater financial resources. If a patent litigation or other intellectual property proceeding is resolved unfavorably to us, we or our collaborative partners may be enjoined from manufacturing or selling our products and services without a license from the other party and be held liable for significant damages. The failure to obtain any required license on commercially acceptable terms or at all may harm our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flow and future prospects. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. Patent litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time, attention and resources. For more information about the legal proceedings in which we were involved but which have been settled, please see “Legal Proceedings.” We may become involved in litigation or other proceedings with collaborative partners, which may be time consuming, costly and could result in delays in our development and commercialization efforts. We conduct some of our development activities, and conduct most of our commercialization activities, through arrangements with third parties. Any disputes with such partners that lead to litigation or similar 13 Table of Contents proceedings may result in us incurring legal expenses, as well as facing potential legal liability. Such disputes, litigation or other proceedings are also time consuming and may cause delays in our development and commercialization efforts. We have limited sales and marketing experience and capabilities. We have limited sales, marketing and distribution experience and capabilities. We may, in some instances, rely significantly on sales, marketing and distribution arrangements with our collaborative partners and other third parties. In these instances, our future revenues will be materially dependent upon the success of the efforts of these third parties. If in the future we determine to perform sales, marketing and distribution functions ourselves, we would face a number of additional risks, including: • we may not be able to attract and build a significant marketing staff or sales force; • the cost of establishing a marketing staff or sales force may not be justifiable in light of any product revenues; and • our direct sales and marketing efforts may not be successful. We have limited pharmaceutical manufacturing capabilities and will be dependent on third party manufacturers. We have limited pharmaceutical manufacturing experience and no commercial or pilot scale manufacturing facilities for the production of pharmaceuticals. In order to continue to develop pharmaceutical products, apply for regulatory approvals and, ultimately, commercialize any products, we may need to develop, contract for, or otherwise arrange for the necessary manufacturing capabilities. We currently rely upon third parties to produce material for preclinical and clinical testing purposes and expect to continue to do so in the future. We also expect to rely upon third parties, including our collaborative partners, to produce materials required for the commercial production of certain of our products if we succeed in obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals. We believe that there is no proprietary aspect to the manufacture of our product candidates. However, there are only a limited number of manufacturers that operate under the FDA’s regulations for good manufacturing practices which are capable of and/or approved to manufacture our product candidates. Timing for the initiation of new manufacturers is uncertain, and, if we are unable to arrange for third party manufacturing of our product candidates on a timely basis, or to do so on commercially reasonable terms, we may not be able to complete development of our product candidates or market them, if they are approved. The manufacture of products by us and our collaborative partners and suppliers is subject to regulation by the FDA and comparable agencies in foreign countries. Delay in complying or failure to comply with such manufacturing requirements could materially adversely affect the marketing of our products. If we are unable to continue to hire and retain skilled personnel, then we will have trouble developing and marketing our products. Our success depends largely upon the continued service of our management and scientific staff and our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled technical, scientific, management, regulatory, clinical and marketing personnel. Potential employees with an expertise in the field of molecular biology, biochemistry, regulatory affairs and/or clinical development of new drug and biopharmaceutical manufacturing are not generally available in the market and are difficult to attract and retain. We also face significant competition for such personnel from other companies, research and academic institutions, government and other organizations who have superior funding and resources to be able to attract such personnel. The loss of key personnel or our inability to hire and retain personnel who have technical, scientific or regulatory compliance backgrounds could materially adversely affect our product development efforts and our business. 14 Table of Contents The market may not be receptive to our products upon their introduction. The commercial success of our therapeutic products that are approved for marketing will depend upon their acceptance by the medical community and third party payors as being clinically useful, cost effective and safe. All of the products that we are developing are based upon new technologies or therapeutic approaches. As a result, it is hard to predict market acceptance of our products or changes in third party payor reimbursement practices in the U.S. and abroad. Other factors that we believe will materially affect market acceptance of our products and services include: • the timing of receipt of marketing approvals and the countries in which such approvals are obtained; • the safety, efficacy and ease of administration of our products; • the success of physician education programs; • the availability of government and third party payor reimbursement of our products; • additional data requests from third party payors to support cost effectiveness before reimbursement of our products; and • competition from products which may offer better safety, efficacy or lower cost. Healthcare reform measures could adversely affect our business. The efforts of governmental and third-party payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care may adversely affect the business and financial condition of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Specifically, in both the United States and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the health care system in ways that could affect our ability to sell our products profitably. The U.S. Congress passed the America Affordable Health Choices Act of 2009 and is considering a number of proposals that are intended to reduce or limit the growth of health care costs and which could significantly transform the market for pharmaceuticals products. We expect further federal and state proposals and health care reforms to continue to be proposed by legislators, which could limit the prices that can be charged for the products we develop and may limit our commercial opportunity. In the United States, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, also called the Medicare Modernization Act, or MMA, changed the way Medicare covers and pays for pharmaceutical products. These cost reduction initiatives and other provisions of this legislation could decrease the coverage and price that we receive for any approved products and could seriously harm our business. While the MMA applies only to drug benefits for Medicare beneficiaries, private payors often follow Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement rates, and any reduction in reimbursement that results from the MMA may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors. The continuing efforts of government and other third-party payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care through various means may limit our commercial opportunity. In addition, the pendency or approval of such proposals could result in a decrease in the price of Repligen’s common stock or limit our ability to raise capital or to enter into collaborations or license rights to our products. We compete with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies who are capable of developing new approaches that could make our products and technology obsolete. The market for therapeutic and commercial products is intensely competitive, rapidly evolving and subject to rapid technological change. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies may have substantially greater financial, manufacturing, marketing, and research and development resources than we have. New approaches by these competitors may make our products and technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. 15 Table of Contents We have incurred substantial losses, we may continue to incur operating losses and we will not be successful until we reverse this trend. Although the company had significant net income in fiscal years 2009 and 2008 as a result of the ImClone and Bristol settlements, we have historically incurred operating losses since our founding in 1981. We incurred losses in fiscal years 2011 and 2010, and we expect to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future. While we generate revenue from bioprocessing product sales and began receiving royalty payments in fiscal year 2009 from Bristol for the net sales of their Orencia® product in the United States, this revenue may not be sufficient to cover the costs of our clinical trials and drug development programs. We plan to continue to invest in key research and development activities. As a result, we will need to generate significant revenues in order to achieve profitability. We cannot be certain whether or when this will occur because of the significant uncertainties that affect our business. We may need to obtain additional capital resources for our drug development programs, or we may be unable to develop or discover new drugs. We may need additional long-term financing to develop our drug development programs through the clinical trial process as required by the FDA and to develop our commercial products business. We also may need additional long-term financing to support future operations and capital expenditures, including capital for additional personnel and facilities. If we spend more money than currently expected for our drug development programs and our commercial products business, we may need to raise additional capital by selling debt or equity securities, by entering into strategic relationships or through other arrangements. Debt financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. If we raise additional funds through collaboration, strategic alliance and licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies or product candidates, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. We may be unable to raise any additional amounts on reasonable terms or when they are needed due to the volatile nature of the biotechnology marketplace. If we are unable to raise this additional capital, we may have to delay or postpone critical clinical studies or abandon other development programs. Pursuing and completing potential acquisitions could divert management attention and financial resources and may not produce the desired business results. While we currently do not have commitments or agreements with respect to any acquisitions, as part of our growth strategy, we may make selected acquisitions of complementary businesses. If we pursue any acquisition, our management, in addition to their operational responsibilities, could spend a significant amount of time and management and financial resources to pursue and integrate any acquired business with our existing business. To fund the purchase price of an acquisition, we might use capital stock, cash or a combination of both. Alternatively, we may borrow money from a bank or other lender. If we use capital stock, our stockholders will experience dilution. If we use cash, our financial liquidity may be reduced. If we take on debt, it may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. If we raise additional funds through collaboration, strategic alliance and licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies or product candidates, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. In addition, from an accounting perspective, an acquisition may involve amortization of significant amounts of other intangible assets that could adversely affect our ability to maintain profitability. Despite the investment of these management and financial resources, an acquisition may not produce the revenue, earnings or business synergies that we anticipated or may produce such synergies less rapidly than anticipated for a variety of reasons, including: • difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, operational systems deployments, technologies, services, products and personnel of the acquired company; 16 Table of Contents • failure of acquired technologies and services to perform as expected; • risks of entering markets in which we have no, or limited, prior experience; • effects of any undisclosed or potential legal or tax liabilities of the acquired company; • compliance with additional laws, rules or regulations that we may become subject to as a result of an acquisition that might restrict our ability to operate; and • the loss of key employees of the acquired company. We may not be able to successfully address these problems. Our future operating results may depend to a significant degree on our ability to successfully integrate acquisitions and manage operations while controlling expenses and cash outflows. We may be exposed to liabilities under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and any determination that we violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practice Act (the “FCPA”) and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by U.S. persons and issuers as defined by the statute for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have operations, agreements with third parties and make sales in jurisdictions outside of the U.S., which may experience corruption. Our activities in jurisdictions outside of the U.S. create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors, because these parties are not always subject to our control. It is our policy to implement safeguards to discourage these practices by our employees. However, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective, and the employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors of our Company may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, the government may seek to hold us liable for successor liability FCPA violations committed by any companies in which we invest or that we acquire. Our stock price could be volatile, which could cause shareholders to lose part or all of their investment. The market price of our common stock, like that of the common stock of many other development stage biotechnology companies, is highly volatile. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies for reasons frequently unrelated to or disproportionate to the operating performance of the specific companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and of Delaware law may prevent or delay an acquisition of our Company, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and Delaware law contain provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive to the raider and to encourage prospective acquirors to negotiate with our Board of Directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include our Board of Directors’ ability to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval and Delaware law’s various restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. In addition, we maintain a shareholder rights plan which may deter a potential acquiror from pursuing an offer for our company. We believe these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirors to negotiate with our Board of Directors and by providing our Board of Directors 17 Table of Contents with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. These provisions are not intended to make our company immune from takeovers. However, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our Board of Directors determines is not in the best interests of our company and our stockholders. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 