ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business and financial results are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those set forth below and in other documents we file with the SEC. Regulatory risk. The rates we charge customers for gas distribution services are established by the OPUC and the WUTC, and the maximum rates for interstate gas storage services are approved by FERC. The failure of these regulatory authorities to approve rates which provide for recovery of our costs and an adequate return on invested capital may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. The rates charged to customers must be approved by the applicable regulatory commission. The rates are generally designed to allow us to recover the costs of providing such services and to earn an adequate return on our capital investment. We expect to continue to make capital expenditures to expand and improve our distribution and storage systems. The failure of any regulatory commission to approve on a timely basis requested rate increases to recover increased costs or to allow an adequate return could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, amounts required to be refunded to customers in accordance with Oregon’s automatic regulatory adjustment for income taxes paid could have a material adverse impact on our financial conditions and results of operations. Gas price risk. Higher natural gas commodity prices and fluctuations in the price of gas may adversely affect our earnings. In recent years, natural gas commodity prices have been volatile primarily due to growing demand, especially for power generation, and stagnant North American gas production. In Oregon and in Washington, the utility has PGA tariffs which provide for annual revisions in rates resulting from changes in the cost of purchased gas. In Oregon, we also have a price-elasticity adjustment that adjusts rates through the annual PGA for expected increases or decreases in customer usage due to higher or lower gas prices. The Oregon PGA tariff also provides that 33 percent of any difference between the actual purchased gas costs and the actual recoveries of gas costs in rates be recognized as current income or expense. Accordingly, higher gas costs than those assumed in setting rates can adversely affect our results of operations. The OPUC has begun a formal review of the PGA process which will cover portfolio requirements, incentive sharing levels and filing requirements, among other items. The review is 17 Table of Contents expected to be completed in 2008. Implementation of any changes to the PGA mechanism is likely to become effective with the 2008 PGA filing. Notwithstanding our current rate structure, higher gas costs could result in increased pressure on the OPUC or the WUTC to seek other means to reduce rates, which also could adversely affect our results of operations. Hedging risk. Our risk management policies and hedging activities cannot eliminate the risk of commodity price movements and other financial market risks may expose us to additional liabilities for which rate recovery may be disallowed. Our gas purchasing requirements expose us to risks of commodity price movements, while our use of debt and equity financing exposes us to interest rate and other financial market risks. We attempt to manage these exposures and mitigate our risk through enforcement of established risk limits and risk management procedures, including hedging activities, in accordance with our Financial Derivatives Policy. These risk limits and risk management procedures may not always work as planned and cannot entirely eliminate the risks associated with hedging. We also have credit exposure to financial derivative counterparties. Our Financial Derivatives Policy requires counterparties to have a minimum investment-grade credit rating at the time the derivative instrument is entered into, and the policy specifies limits on the contract amount and duration based on each counterparty’s credit rating. These practices are subject to regulatory review and, if found to be imprudent, could be disallowed, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Customer growth risk. Our results of operations may be negatively affected if we are unable to sustain customer growth rates. Our earnings growth and results of operations have largely been dependent upon the sustained growth of our residential and commercial customer base. If we are unable to sustain customer growth rate levels at or above the national average, our results of operations may be negatively affected. A number of factors could negatively impact our ability to sustain growth, such as a downturn in the economy, reduced housing starts and competition. Risk of competition. Our gas distribution business is subject to increased competition with other energy sources. To the extent that competition increases, our profit margins may be negatively affected. In the residential market, we compete primarily with suppliers of electricity, fuel oil and propane. We also compete with suppliers of electricity and fuel oil for commercial applications. In the industrial market, we compete with all forms of energy suppliers. Competition among these forms of energy is based on price, reliability, efficiency and performance. Higher natural gas prices have eroded, or in some cases eliminated, the competitive price advantage of natural gas over other energy sources. Also, technological improvements in other energy sources could erode our competitive advantage. If natural gas prices continue to rise relative to other energy sources, then our ability to attract new customers could be significantly affected, which could have a negative impact on our customer growth rate and results of operations. Single transportation pipeline risk. We rely on a single pipeline for the transportation of gas to our service territory. 18 Table of Contents We are largely dependent on a single, bi-directional pipeline for transportation of gas into our service territory. Our results of operations may be negatively impacted if there is a rupture in the pipeline and we incur costs associated with actions taken to mitigate disruption of service. Business development risk. The construction, startup and operation of our business development projects may involve unanticipated changes or delays that could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. The startup, construction and operation of business development projects involve many risks, including: the inability to obtain required governmental permits and approvals; startup and construction delays; construction cost overruns; competition; inability to negotiate acceptable agreements such as rights-of-way, easements, construction, gas supply or other material contracts; changes in market prices; and operating cost increases. Such unanticipated events could negatively impact our results of operations. These risks apply to our current business development activities, including Palomar Pipeline and the Gill Ranch storage facility in California. Environmental risk. Certain of our properties and facilities may pose environmental risks requiring remediation, the cost of which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Also, management expects that future legislation may impose carbon constraints to address global climate change. We own, or previously owned, properties that require environmental remediation or other action. We accrue all material loss contingencies relating to these properties, but our results of operations may be adversely affected to the extent that estimates of the probable costs increase significantly as additional information becomes available and to the extent we are not able to recover the incremental cost from insurance or through customer rates. A regulatory asset has already been recorded for some of these estimated costs. To the extent we are unable to recover these costs in rates or through insurance, we would be required to reduce our regulatory asset which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, disputes may arise between potentially responsible parties and regulators as to the severity of particular environmental matters and what remediation efforts are appropriate. These disputes could lead to adversarial administrative proceedings or litigation, with uncertain outcomes. We cannot predict with certainty the amount or timing of future expenditures related to environmental investigation and remediation that may be required because of the difficulty of estimating such costs. There is also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on all potentially responsible parties. There are also no assurances that existing environmental regulations will not be revised or that new stricter regulations seeking to protect the environment will not be adopted or become applicable to us. Revised environmental regulations which result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from customers. With respect to global climate change, there are a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to address greenhouse gas emissions, which are in various phases of discussion or implementation. The outcome of federal and state actions to address climate change could result in a variety of regulatory programs including potential new regulations, additional charges to fund energy efficiency activities, or other regulatory actions. These actions could result in increased costs associated with operating and maintaining our facilities, could increase other costs to our business and could impact the prices we charge our customers. 19 Table of Contents Weather risk. Our results of operations may be negatively affected by warmer than average weather. A large portion of the utility’s margin is derived from sales to space heating residential and commercial customers during each winter heating season. Current rates are based on an assumption of average weather. In Oregon, the effects of warmer or colder weather on utility margin are reduced through the operation of our weather normalization mechanism, and partially reduced by our conservation tariff in months when weather normalization is not in effect. However, customers in Oregon may elect to opt out of the weather normalization mechanism, and less than 10 percent of those customers have opted out on an annualized basis. In addition, approximately 10 percent of our residential and commercial customers are in Washington where we do not have a weather normalization mechanism or conservation tariff. As a result, we are not fully protected against warmer than average weather, which may have an adverse affect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Customer conservation risk. Customers’ conservation efforts may have a negative impact on our revenues. Higher gas costs and rates may result in increased conservation by customers, which can decrease sales and adversely affect results of operations. The OPUC authorized our conservation tariff, which is designed to recover lost margin due to changes in residential and commercial customers’ consumption patterns. The conservation tariff is intended to adjust for increases or decreases in consumption attributable to annual changes in commodity costs or periodic changes in general rates and for deviations between actual and expected usage. The conservation tariff expires in October 2012. The failure of the OPUC to extend the conservation tariff in the future could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We do not have a conservation tariff in Washington. Operating risk. Transporting and storing natural gas involves numerous risks that may result in accidents and other operating risks and costs. Our gas distribution activities are subject to a variety of operating hazards and risks, such as leaks, accidents, mechanical problems, fires, storms, landslides and other adverse weather conditions and hazards, which could cause substantial financial losses. In addition, these risks could result in loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution and disruption of our operations, which in turn could lead to substantial losses. The occurrence of any of these events may not be covered by our insurance policies or recoverable through rates, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Business continuity risk. We may be adversely impacted by extreme events to which we are not able to promptly respond to and repair our system. Extreme events (e.g. terrorism act or national disaster) that target or impact our natural gas distribution, transmission and storage facilities could result in a disruption in our ability to meet customer requirements. These events may also disrupt capital markets and our ability to raise capital, or impact our suppliers or our customers directly. We maintain emergency planning and training programs to remain ready to respond to extreme events. A slow response to extreme events may have an adverse affect on earnings as customers could be without gas for an extended period of time. Economic risk. Changes in the economic outlook, including rates of inflation and capital market conditions may have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents Our business relies on capital markets to finance our construction costs and other capital expense requirements, and to refund maturing debt, that cannot by funded by operating cash flows. Changes in the economy that impact our ability to access the capital markets at competitive rates may negatively impact our ability to make strategic capital investments. Market disruptions and downgrades of our debt credit ratings may increase our cost of borrowing or negatively impact our ability to access financial markets. Workforce risk. Our business is heavily dependent on being able to attract and retain qualified employees and to maintain a competitive cost structure with market-based salaries and employee benefits. Our gas distribution business is subject to a variety of workforce risks, including being able to attract and retain qualified employees, being able to transfer the knowledge and expertise of an aging workforce to new employees as older workers retire and being able to reach collective bargaining agreements with the union that represents about 65 percent of our workers. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 