RISK FACTORS The following risk factors should be considered carefully in addition to the other information contained in this filing. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face and represent some of the risks that our management believes are material to our company and our business. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. Risks Relating To Our Business The recreation vehicle and small and mid-size bus industries are highly competitive. The recreation vehicle and bus industries that we are currently engaged in are highly competitive and we have numerous competitors and potential competitors. Competition in these industries is based upon price, design, value, quality and service. Competitive pressures, especially in the entry-level segment of the recreation vehicle market for travel trailers, have, from time to time, resulted in a reduction of our profit margins. Sustained increases in these competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. There can be no assurance that existing or new competitors will not develop products that are superior to our recreation vehicles or small or mid-size buses or that achieve better consumer acceptance, thereby adversely affecting our market share, sales volume and profit margins. Our businesses are cyclical and this can lead to fluctuations in our operating results. The industries in which we operate are cyclical and there can be substantial fluctuations in our manufacturing, shipments and operating results. Consequently, the results for any prior period may not be indicative of results for any future period. External Factors Affecting Any Business. Companies within the recreation vehicle and bus industries are subject to volatility in operating results due to external factors such as general economic conditions, including consumer confidence, employment rates, prevailing interest rates, inflation, and other economic conditions affecting consumer attitudes and disposable consumer income generally, demographic changes and political changes. Specific factors affecting the recreation vehicle and bus industries include: • overall consumer confidence and the level of discretionary consumer spending; • inventory levels; including the level of retail sales by our dealers; • general economic conditions; • demographics, such as the retirement of “baby boomers”; • interest rates; • employment trends; • the amount of backlog, which may be a predictor of near-term future revenues; • fuel availability and prices; • the adverse impact of terrorism on consumer spending and travel related activities; and • adverse impact on our margins of increases in raw material costs which we are unable to pass on to customers without negatively affecting sales. A significant portion of our sales of small and mid-size buses are derived from state and local transportation authorities. Approximately 60% of our bus sales are derived from contracts with state and local transportation authorities, in most cases with partial funding from federal agencies. There can be no assurance that these authorities will not reduce their expenditures for our buses in the future as a result of budgetary constraints or otherwise. A reduction in the purchase of our buses by these authorities could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our recreation vehicle business is seasonal, and this leads to fluctuations in sales, production and net income. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, significant variability in sales, production and net income as a result of seasonality in our businesses. Demand in the recreation vehicle industry generally declines during the winter season, while sales and profits are generally highest during the spring and summer months. In addition, unusually severe weather conditions in some markets may delay the timing of shipments from one quarter to another. 9 Table of Contents Our business is affected by the availability and terms of financing to dealers and retail purchasers. Our business is affected by the availability and terms of financing to dealers and retail purchasers. Substantial increases in interest rates and decreases in the general availability of credit have had an adverse impact upon our business and results of operations in the past and may continue to do so in the future. Changes in consumer preferences for our products or our failure to gauge those preferences could lead to reduced sales and additional costs. We cannot be certain that historical consumer preferences for our products in general, and recreation vehicles in particular, will remain unchanged. We believe that the introduction of new features, designs and models will be critical to the future success of our recreation vehicle operations. Delays in the introduction of new models, designs or product features, or a lack of market acceptance of new models, designs or product features could have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, we may incur significant additional costs in designing or redesigning models that are not accepted in the marketplace. Products may not be accepted for a number of reasons, including changes in consumer preferences or our failure to properly gauge consumer preferences. Further, we cannot be certain that new product introductions will not reduce revenues from existing models and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, there can be no assurance that any of these new models or products will be introduced to the market on time or that they will be successful when introduced. If the frequency and size of product liability and other claims against us rises, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be harmed. We are frequently subject, in the ordinary course of business, to litigation involving product liability and other claims, including wrongful death, against us related to personal injury and warranties. We partially self-insure our product liability claims and also purchase product liability insurance in the commercial insurance market. We cannot be certain that our insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover all future claims against us. Any increase in the frequency and size of these claims, as compared to our experience in prior years, may cause the premium that we are required to pay for insurance to rise significantly. It may also increase the amounts we pay in punitive damages, not all of which are covered by our insurance. When we introduce new products into the marketplace we may incur expenses that we did not anticipate, which, in turn, can result in reduced earnings. The introduction of new models of recreation vehicles and buses is critical to our future success. We may incur unexpected expenses, however, when we introduce new models of recreation vehicles and buses. For example, we may experience unexpected engineering or design flaws that will force a recall of a new product. The costs resulting from these types of problems could be substantial, and could have a significant adverse effect on our earnings. Fuel shortages, or continuing high prices for fuel, could have a negative effect on sales of our recreation vehicles. Gasoline or diesel fuel is required for the operation of recreation vehicles. There can be no assurance that the supply of these petroleum products will continue uninterrupted, that rationing will not be imposed or that the price of or tax on these petroleum products will not significantly increase in the future. Shortages of gasoline and substantial increases in the price of gasoline have had a material adverse effect on the recreation vehicle industry as a whole in the past and could have a material adverse effect on our business in the future. Our repurchase agreements with floor plan lenders could result in increased costs. In accordance with customary practice in the recreation vehicle industry, upon the request of a lending institution financing a dealer’s purchase of our products and after completion of a credit investigation of the dealer involved, we will execute a repurchase agreement with the lending institution. Repurchase agreements provide that, for up to 12 months after a recreation vehicle is financed and in the event of default by the dealer, we will repurchase the recreation vehicle repossessed by the lending institution for the amount then due, which is usually less than 100% of dealer’s cost. The difference between the gross repurchase price and the price at which the repurchased product can then be resold, which is typically at a discount to the original sale price, is an expense to us. Thus, if we were obligated to repurchase a substantially greater number of recreation vehicles in the future, this would increase our costs. For some of our components, we depend on a small group of suppliers, and the loss of any of these suppliers could affect our ability to obtain components at competitive prices, which would decrease our margins. Most recreation vehicle and bus components are readily available from a variety of sources. However, a few components are produced by only a small group of quality suppliers that have the capacity to supply large quantities on a national basis. 10 Table of Contents Primarily, this occurs in the case of chassis for our motor homes and buses, where Ford Motor Company and General Motors are the dominant suppliers. The recreation vehicle industry as a whole has from time to time experienced shortages of chassis due to the concentration or allocation of available resources by suppliers of chassis to the manufacturers of vehicles other than recreation vehicles or for other causes. Historically, in the event of an industry-wide restriction of supply, Ford Motor Company and General Motors have allocated chassis among us and our competitors based on the volume of chassis previously purchased. If Ford Motor Company or General Motors were to discontinue the manufacturing of motor home or bus chassis, or if as a group all of our chassis suppliers significantly reduced the availability of chassis to the industry, our business could be adversely effected. Similarly, shortages, production delays or work stoppages by the employees of Ford Motor Company, General Motors or other chassis suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our sales. Finally, as is standard in the industry, arrangements with chassis suppliers are terminable at any time by either our company or the chassis supplier. If we cannot obtain an adequate chassis supply, this could result in a decrease in our sales and earnings. Our business is subject to numerous federal, state and local regulations. We are subject to numerous federal, state and local regulations governing the manufacture and sale of our products, including the provisions of the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act, or NTMVSA, and the safety standards for recreation vehicles and components which have been promulgated under the NTMVSA by the Department of Transportation. The NTMVSA authorizes the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration to require a manufacturer to recall and repair vehicles which contain certain hazards or defects. Any recalls of our vehicles, voluntary or involuntary, could have a material adverse effect on our company. We are also subject to federal and numerous state consumer protection and unfair trade practice laws and regulations relating to the sale, transportation and marketing of motor vehicles, including so-called “Lemon Laws”. Federal and state laws and regulations also impose upon vehicle operators various restrictions on the weight, length and width of motor vehicles, including buses and motor homes, that may be operated in certain jurisdictions or on certain roadways. Certain jurisdictions also prohibit the sale of vehicles exceeding length restrictions. Finally, federal and state authorities also have various environmental control standards relating to air, water, noise pollution and hazardous waste generation and disposal which affect our business and operations. Failure to comply with any of the foregoing laws or regulations could have an adverse impact on our business. Risks Relating To Our Company. Provisions in our charter documents and of Delaware law may make it difficult for a third party to acquire our company and could depress the price of our common stock. Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation contains certain supermajority voting provisions that could delay, defer or prevent a change in control of our company. These provisions could also make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors, amend our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and take other corporate actions. We are also subject to certain provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law that could delay, deter or prevent us from entering into an acquisition, including provisions which prohibit a Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder unless specific conditions are met. The existence of these provisions could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock and may deprive you of an opportunity to sell your shares at a premium over prevailing prices. We will continue to be effectively controlled by one of our shareholders. Wade F. B. Thompson, our President and Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of our board of directors, owns directly or indirectly voting control over an aggregate of 16,678,020 shares of our common stock, representing 29.4% of our issued and outstanding voting stock. As a result, Mr. Thompson will be able to significantly influence most matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of board members and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. 