Item 1A. Risk Factors 18 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 27 Item 2. Properties 27 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 27 Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 27 PART II Item 5. Market for the Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 28 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 30 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 32 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 66 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 69 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 116 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 116 Item 9B. Other Information 116 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 117 Item 11. Executive Compensation 118 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 118 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 119 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 119 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 120 SIGNATURES 121 Table of Contents GLOSSARY OF TERMS Average weather: equal to the 25-year average degree days based on temperatures established in our 2003 Oregon general rate case. Bcf: one billion cubic feet, a volumetric measure of natural gas, roughly equal to 10 million therms. Btu: British thermal unit, a basic unit of thermal energy measurement. One Btu equals the energy required to raise one pound of water one degree Fahrenheit at atmospheric pressure and 60 degrees Fahrenheit. One hundred thousand Btu’s equal one therm. Core utility customers: residential, commercial and industrial customers on firm service from the utility. Decoupling: a rate mechanism, also referred to as our conservation tariff, which is designed to break the link between earnings and the quantity of natural gas consumed by customers. The design is intended to allow the utility to encourage customers to conserve energy while not adversely affecting its earnings due to losses in sales volumes. Degree days: units of measure that reflect temperature-sensitive consumption of natural gas, calculated by subtracting the average of a day’s high and low temperatures from 65 degrees Fahrenheit. Demand charge: a component in all core utility customer rates that covers the cost of securing firm pipeline capacity to meet peak demand, whether that capacity is used or not. Firm service: natural gas service offered to customers under contracts or rate schedules that will not be disrupted to meet the needs of other customers, particularly during cold weather. General rate case: a periodic filing with state or federal regulators to establish equitable rates and balance the interests of all classes of customers and our shareholders. Interruptible service: natural gas service offered to customers (usually large commercial or industrial users) under contracts or rate schedules that allow for temporary interruptions to meet the needs of firm service customers. Liquefied natural gas (LNG): the cryogenic liquid form of natural gas. To reach a liquid form at atmospheric pressure, natural gas must be cooled to approximately -260 degrees Fahrenheit. Purchased Gas Adjustment (PGA): a regulatory mechanism for adjusting customer rates due to changes in the cost to acquire commodity supplies. Return on equity (ROE): a measure of corporate profitability, calculated as net income divided by average common stock equity. Authorized ROE refers to the equity rate approved by a regulatory agency for utility investments funded by common stock equity. Sales service: service provided to a customer that receives both natural gas supply and transportation of that gas from the regulated utility. Therm: the basic unit of natural gas measurement, equal to 100,000 Btu’s. An average residential customer in our service area uses about 700 therms in an average weather year. Transportation service: service provided to a customer that secures its own natural gas supply and pays the regulated utility only for use of the distribution system to transport it. Utility margin: utility gross revenues less the associated cost of gas and applicable revenue taxes. Also referred to as utility net operating revenues. Weather normalization: a rate mechanism that allows the utility to adjust customers’ bills during the winter heating season to reduce variations in margin recovery due to fluctuations from average temperatures. 1 Table of Contents Forward-Looking Statements Statements and information included in this report that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the “safe harbor” provisions and meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act). Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning plans, objectives, goals, strategies, future events or performance, trends, cyclicality, growth, development of projects, exploration of new gas supplies, estimated expenditures, costs of compliance, potential efficiencies, impacts of new laws and regulations, projected obligations under retirement plans, adequacy of and shift in mix of gas supplies, and adequacy of regulatory deferrals. Such statements are expressed in good faith and we believe have a reasonable basis; however, each forward-looking statement involves uncertainties and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the following important factors, among others, that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected, including: • prevailing state and federal governmental policies and regulatory actions with respect to allowed rates of return, industry and rate structure, timely and adequate purchased gas cost and investment recovery, acquisitions and dispositions of assets and facilities, operation and construction of plant facilities, present or prospective wholesale and retail competition, changes in laws and regulations including but not limited to tax laws and policies, changes in and compliance with environmental and safety laws, regulations, policies and orders, and laws, regulations and orders with respect to the maintenance of pipeline integrity, including regulatory allowance or disallowance of costs based on regulatory prudency reviews; • economic factors that could cause a severe downturn in the national economy, in particular the economies of Oregon and Washington, thus affecting demand for natural gas; • unanticipated population growth or decline and changes in market demand caused by changes in demographic or customer consumption patterns; • the creditworthiness of customers, suppliers and financial derivative counterparties; • market conditions and pricing of natural gas relative to other energy sources; • unanticipated changes that may affect our liquidity or access to capital markets, including volatility in the credit environment and financial services sector; • capital market conditions, including their effect on financing costs, the fair value of pension assets and on pension and other postretirement benefit costs; • application of the Oregon Public Utility Commission rules interpreting Oregon legislation intended to ensure that utilities do not collect more income taxes in rates than they actually pay to government entities; • weather conditions, natural phenomena including earthquakes or other geohazard events, and other pandemic events; • competition for retail and wholesale customers and our ability to remain price competitive; • our ability to access sufficient gas supplies and our dependence on a single pipeline transportation company for natural gas transmission; • property damage associated with a pipeline safety incident, as well as risks resulting from uninsured damage to our property, intentional or otherwise; • financial and operational risks relating to business development and investment activities, including the Palomar pipeline and the proposed Gill Ranch underground gas storage facility; • unanticipated changes in interest or foreign currency exchange rates or in rates of inflation; 2 Table of Contents • changes in estimates of potential liabilities relating to environmental contingencies or in timely and adequate regulatory or insurance recovery for such liabilities; • unanticipated changes in future liabilities and legislation relating to employee benefit plans, including changes in key assumptions; • our ability to transfer knowledge of our aging workforce and maintain a satisfactory relationship with the union that represents a majority of our workers; • potential inability to obtain permits, rights of way, easements, leases or other interests or other necessary authority to construct pipelines, develop storage or complete other system expansions and the timing of such projects; • federal, state or other regulatory actions related to climate change; and • legal and administrative proceedings and settlements. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. We may make other forward-looking statements from time to time, including statements in press releases and public conference calls and webcasts. All forward-looking statements made by us are based on information available to us at the time the statements are made and speak only as of the date on which such statement is made. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. New factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to predict all such factors, nor can we assess the impact of each such factor or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. Some of these risks and uncertainties are discussed at Item 1A., “Risk Factors” of Part I and Item 7. and Item 7A., “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” respectively, of Part II of this report. 3 Table of Contents NORTHWEST NATURAL GAS COMPANY PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS General Northwest Natural Gas Company (NW Natural) was incorporated under the laws of Oregon in 1910. Our company and its predecessors have supplied gas service to the public since 1859. We have been doing business as NW Natural since September 1997. We maintain operations in Oregon, Washington and California and conduct business through NW Natural, two wholly-owned subsidiaries and a joint venture. A reference to NW Natural (“we,” “us” or “our”) in this report means NW Natural and it subsidiaries and joint venture unless otherwise noted. Business Segments We operate in two primary reportable business segments, Local Gas Distribution and Gas Storage. We also have other investments and business activities not specifically related to one of these two reporting segments which we aggregate and report as Other. Local Gas Distribution We are principally engaged in the distribution of natural gas in Oregon and southwest Washington. We refer to this business segment as our local gas distribution or utility. Local gas distribution involves building and maintaining a safe and reliable pipeline distribution system, purchasing gas from producers and marketers, contracting for the transportation of gas over pipelines from the supply basins to our service territory, and reselling the gas to customers subject to rates and terms approved by the Oregon Public Utility Commission (OPUC) or by the Washington Utilities and Transportation Commission (WUTC). Gas distribution also includes transporting gas owned by large customers from the interstate pipeline connection, or city gate, to the customers’ facilities for a fee, also approved by the OPUC or WUTC. Approximately 96 percent of our consolidated assets and 85 percent of our consolidated net income in 2008 were related to the local gas distribution segment. The OPUC has allocated to us as our exclusive service area a major portion of western Oregon, including the Portland metropolitan area, most of the Willamette Valley and the coastal area from Astoria to Coos Bay. We also hold certificates from the WUTC granting us exclusive rights to serve portions of three southwest Washington counties bordering the Columbia River. We provide gas service in 124 cities and neighboring communities in 15 Oregon counties, as well as in 14 cities and neighboring communities in three Washington counties. The city of Portland is the principal retail and manufacturing center in the Columbia River Basin, and is a major port for trade with Asia. At year-end 2008, we had approximately 662,000 total customers, consisting of 599,000 residential, 62,000 commercial and 1,000 industrial sales and transportation customers. Approximately 90 percent of our customers are located in Oregon and 10 percent are in Washington. Industries we serve include: pulp, paper and other forest products; the manufacture of electronic, electrochemical and electrometallurgical products; the processing of farm and food products; the production of various mineral products; metal fabrication and casting; the production of machine tools, machinery and textiles; the manufacture of asphalt, concrete and rubber; printing and publishing; nurseries; government and educational institutions; and electric generation. No individual customer or industry accounts for a significant portion of our revenues. 4 Table of Contents Utility Gas Supply, Storage and Transportation Capacity We meet the expected needs of our core utility customers through natural gas purchases from a variety of suppliers. Our supply and capacity plan is based on forecasted customer requirements and takes into account estimated load growth by type of customer, attrition, conservation, distribution system constraints, interstate pipeline capacity and contractual limitations and the forecasted movement of large customers between sales service and transportation-only service. We perform sensitivity analyses based on factors such as weather variations and price elasticity effects. We have a diverse portfolio of short-, medium- and long-term firm gas supply contracts that we supplement during periods of peak demand with gas from storage facilities either owned by or contractually committed to us. Gas Acquisition Strategy Our goals in purchasing gas for our core utility market are: • Reliability—Ensuring a gas resource portfolio that is sufficient to satisfy core utility customer requirements under extremely cold weather conditions as described below in “Source of Supply—Design Day Sendout;” • Lowest reasonable cost—Applying strategies to acquire gas supplies at the lowest reasonable cost to utility customers; • Price stability—Making use of physical assets (e.g. gas storage) and financial instruments (e.g. financial hedge contracts such as price swaps) to manage commodity price variability; and • Cost recovery—Managing gas purchase costs prudently to minimize the risks associated with regulatory review and recovery of gas acquisition costs. To achieve our gas acquisition strategy, we employ a gas purchasing strategy that emphasizes a diversity of supply, liquidity, price risk management, asset optimization and regulatory alignment as described below. Diversity of supply. There are three primary means by which we diversify our gas supply acquisitions: regional supply basins; contract types; and contract durations. Our utility obtains its gas supplies from three key supply basins. They are the Alberta and British Columbia regions in Canada, and the Rocky Mountain region in the United States. We believe that gas supplies available in the western United States and Canada are adequate to serve our core utility requirements for the foreseeable future, but we are considering shifting more of our supply mix to the U.S. Rocky Mountains based on projections of declining gas imports from western Canada and increased gas production in the U.S. Rocky Mountains. We believe that the cost of natural gas coming from these regions will continue to track market prices, but there may be price discounts on supplies from the U.S. Rocky Mountains in the near term due to of the limited amount of transmission capacity to transport that supply to existing markets. Several projects have been proposed recently to increase pipeline capacity out of the U.S. Rocky Mountain region. In addition, we also believe the potential development of a liquefied natural gas (LNG) import terminal would benefit the Pacific Northwest. If constructed, an LNG import terminal would introduce a new source of gas supply to our utility customers and the region, thereby increasing the diversity of available sources of energy and increasing the overall supply of natural gas available to meet future demand growth in the region. 5 Table of Contents We typically enter into gas purchase contracts for: • year-round baseload supply; • additional baseload supply for the winter heating season; • winter heating season contracts where we have the option to call on all or some of the supplies on a daily basis; and • spot purchases, taking into account forecasted customer requirements, storage injections and withdrawals and seasonal weather fluctuations. Other less frequent types of contracts include non-heating season baseload contracts, non-heating season contracts where the supplier has the option to supply gas to us on a daily basis, and seasonal exchange purchase and sale contracts. We try to maintain a diversified portfolio of purchase arrangements. We also use a variety of multi-year contract durations to avoid having to re-contract a significant portion of our supplies every year. See “Core Utility Market Basic Supply,” below. Trading Points. We purchase our gas supplies at liquid trading points to facilitate competition and price transparency. These trading points include the NOVA Inventory Transfer (NIT) point in Alberta (also referred to as AECO), Huntingdon/Sumas and Station 2 in British Columbia, and various receipt points in the U.S. Rocky Mountains. Price risk management. There are four general methods that we currently use for managing gas commodity price risk: • negotiating fixed prices directly with gas suppliers; • negotiating financial instruments that exchange the floating price in a physical supply contract for a fixed price (referred to as price swaps); • negotiating financial instruments that set a ceiling or floor price, or both, on a floating price contract (referred to as calls, puts, and collars); and • buying gas and injecting it into storage. See “Cost of Gas,” below. Asset optimization. We use our gas supply, storage and transportation flexibility to capture opportunities that emerge during the course of the year for gas purchases, sales, exchanges or other means to manage net gas costs. In particular, our Mist underground storage facility provides flexibility in this regard. In addition, in an effort to maximize the value of our gas storage and pipeline capacity, we contract with an independent energy marketing company that optimizes our unused capacity when those assets are not serving the needs of our core utility customers. This asset optimization service performed by the independent energy marketing company produces cost savings that are refunded to core utility customers, as well as generates incremental revenues which are included in our gas storage business segment. See Note 2. Regulatory alignment. Mechanisms for gas cost recovery are designed to be fair, and balance the interests of customers and shareholders. In general, utility rates are designed to recover the cost of, but not earn a return on, the gas commodity purchased, and we attempt to minimize risks associated with cost recovery through: • re-setting customer rates annually for changes in forecasted purchased gas costs and customer deferrals of prior year’s actual versus forecasted gas purchase costs. (see Part II, Item 7., “Results of Operations—Regulatory Matters—Rate Mechanisms—Purchased Gas Adjustment”); 6 Table of Contents • aligning customer and shareholder interests, such as through the use of our purchased gas adjustment (PGA) incentive sharing mechanism, weather normalization, conservation, and gas storage sharing mechanisms (see Part II, Item 7., “Results of Operations—Regulatory Matters”); and • periodic review of regulatory deferrals with state regulatory commissions and key customer groups. Cost of Gas The cost of gas to supply our core utility customers primarily consists of the purchase price paid to suppliers, charges paid to pipeline companies to store and transport the gas to our distribution system and gains or losses related to commodity hedge contracts entered into in connection with the purchase of gas for core utility customers. Supply cost. Volatility in natural gas commodity prices has increased dramatically over the last several years primarily due to shifts in the balance of supply and demand, which has been affected by the level of gas imports, regional accessibility to gas supplies, supply disruptions, changes in the global energy markets, availability of pipeline capacity to transport natural gas from region to region, and changes in general economic conditions. We are in a favorable position with respect to gas production because of the proximity of our service territory to supply basins in western Canada and the U.S. Rocky Mountains, where some growth in gas production is expected to continue for the foreseeable future. Transportation cost. Pipeline transportation rates charged by our pipeline suppliers had been relatively stable until recently. In 2006, two of the five major pipelines used by NW Natural filed with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) for significant rate increases which were implemented in 2007. Pipeline transportation rate increases are generally passed on to our customers through state-approved annual PGA mechanisms. Gas price hedging. We seek to mitigate the effects of higher gas commodity prices and price volatility on core utility customers by using our underground storage facilities strategically and by entering into financial hedge contracts to fix or limit the price of gas commodity purchases. Managing the Cost of Gas We manage natural gas commodity price risk through active physical and financial hedging programs Our financial hedge contracts make up a majority of our commodity price hedging activity, and these contracts are with a variety of investment-grade credit counterparties, typically with credit ratings of AA- or higher. See Part II, Item 7A., “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Credit Risk—Credit exposure to financial derivative counterparties.” Under our financial hedge program, we enter into commodity swaps, puts, calls and collars anywhere from one month up to five years into the future. Realized gains or losses from financial commodity hedge contracts are treated as reductions or increases to the cost of gas. In addition to the prices that are hedged through financial contracts, we also use gas storage as a physical hedge. We purchase and inject about 15 to 20 percent of our annual gas supply requirements into storage during the summer when demand and gas prices are generally lower. The gas is stored for withdrawal during the winter months in five different storage facilities. We own and operate three of 7 Table of Contents these storage facilities located within our service territory, which eliminates the need for additional upstream pipeline capacity and provides significant cost savings. The other two storage facilities are owned and operated by our primary pipeline supplier. The intended effect of our physical and financial hedging programs are to manage the price exposure for a majority of our gas supply portfolio for the following gas contract year, with prices hedged for approximately 60 percent of year round supplies and 80 percent or more of our expected winter-heating season supplies based on forecasted customer requirements. Source of Supply—Design Year and Design Day Sendout The effectiveness of our gas supply program ultimately rests on whether we provide reliable service at a reasonable cost to our core utility customers. For this purpose, we develop a composite design year that is based on the coldest weather experienced over the last 20 years in our service territory. We start with the coldest heating season during the last 20 years and then modify it to include the coldest single weather day over that same 20-year period. This coldest “design day” is the maximum anticipated demand on the natural gas distribution system during a 24-hour period, which currently assumes weather at an average temperature of 12 degrees Fahrenheit. We also assume that all usage by interruptible customers will be curtailed on the design day. Our projected sources of delivery for design day firm utility customer sendout total approximately 9 million therms. We are currently capable of meeting 63 percent of our firm customer design day requirements with storage and peaking supply sources located within or adjacent to our service territory. Optimal utilization of storage and peaking facilities on our design day reduces the cost and dependency on firm interstate pipeline transportation. On January 5, 2004, we experienced our current-record firm customer sendout of 7.2 million therms, and a total sendout of 8.9 million therms, on a day that was approximately 9 degrees Fahrenheit warmer than the design day temperature. That January 2004 cold weather event lasted about 10 days, and the actual firm customer sendout each day provided data indicating that load forecasting models required very little re-calibration. Similar cold temperatures experienced in December 2008 produced very high sendout days but they were still about 20 percent below our 2004 record. Accordingly, we believe that our supplies would be sufficient to meet firm customer demand if we were to experience design day conditions. We will continue to evaluate and update our forecasts of design day requirements in connection with our integrated resource plan (IRP) process (see “Integrated Resource Plan,” below). The following table shows the sources of supply that are projected to be used to satisfy the design day sendout for the 2008-2009 winter heating season: Projected Sources of Supply for Design Day Sendout Sources of Supply Therms(in millions) Percent Firm supplier contracts 3.3 37 Off-system firm storage contracts 1.1 12 Mist underground storage (utility only) 2.4 27 Company-owned LNG storage 1.8 20 Recall agreements 0.4 4 Total 9.0 100 We believe the combination of the natural gas supply purchases under contract, our peaking supplies and the transportation capacity held under contract on the interstate pipelines sufficiently satisfies the needs of existing customers and positions the utility to meet future requirements. 8 Table of Contents Core Utility Market Basic Supply We purchase gas for our core utility customers from a variety of suppliers located in western Canada and the U.S. Rocky Mountain area. Currently, about 60—70 percent of our supply comes from Canada, with the balance coming primarily from the U.S. Rocky Mountain region, but we are considering shifting more of our supply mix to the U.S. Rocky Mountains based on projections of declining gas imports from western Canada and increased gas production in the U.S. Rocky Mountains. At January 1, 2009, we had 28 firm contracts with 15 suppliers and remaining terms ranging from five months to six years, which provide for a maximum of 2.2 million therms of firm gas per day during the peak winter heating season and 1.1 million therms per day during the entire year. These contracts have a variety of pricing structures and purchase obligations. During 2008, we purchased 831 million therms of gas under the following contract durations: Contract Duration (primary terms) Percent of Purchases Long-term (one year or longer) 50 Short-term (more than one month, less than one year) 16 Spot (one month or less) 34 Total 100 We regularly renew or replace our gas supply contracts with new agreements with a variety of existing and new suppliers. Aside from the optimization of our core utility gas supplies by the independent energy marketing company (see “Gas Acquisition Strategy—Asset optimization,” above), our daily contract requirements are provided by multiple sources with no more than three suppliers providing between 10 and 15 percent of our average daily contract volumes. Firm year-round supply contracts have remaining terms ranging from one to six years. All term gas supply contracts use price formulas tied to monthly index prices. We hedge a majority of these contracts each year using financial instruments as part of our gas purchasing strategy (see “Managing the Cost of Gas,” above). In addition to the year-round contracts, we continue to contract in advance for firm gas supplies to be delivered only during the winter heating season primarily under short-term contracts. During 2008, new short-term purchase agreements were entered into with nine suppliers. These agreements have a variety of pricing structures and provide for a total of up to 1.5 million therms per day during the 2008-2009 heating season. We intend to enter into new purchase agreements in 2009 for equivalent volumes of gas with existing or new suppliers, as needed, to replace contracts that will expire during 2009. We also buy gas on the spot market as needed to meet core utility customer demand. We have flexibility under the terms of some of our firm supply contracts enabling us to purchase spot gas in lieu of firm contract volumes, thereby allowing us to take advantage of favorable pricing on the spot market from time to time. We continue to purchase a small amount of gas from a non-affiliated producer in the Mist gas field in Oregon. The production area is situated near our underground gas storage facility. Current production is approximately 19,000 therms per day from about 17 wells, supplying less than 1 percent of our total annual purchase requirements. Production from these wells varies as existing wells are depleted and new wells are drilled. 9 Table of Contents Core Utility Market Peaking Supply and Storage We supplement our firm gas supplies with gas from storage facilities we own or that are contractually committed to us. Gas is generally purchased and stored during periods of low demand for use at a later time during periods of peak demand. In addition to enabling us to meet our peak demand, these facilities make it possible to lower the annual average cost of gas by allowing us to minimize our pipeline transportation contract demand costs and to purchase gas for storage during the summer months when gas prices are generally lower. Underground storage. We provide daily and seasonal peaking gas supplies to our Oregon core utility customers from our underground gas storage facility in the Mist gas storage field. Including the latest expansions in 2008, this facility has a maximum daily deliverability of 5.1 million therms and a total working gas capacity of about 16 Bcf. In 2004, we completed our South Mist pipeline extension project, which is a utility transmission pipeline from our Mist gas storage field to growing portions of our distribution service area. In May 2008, a total of 100,000 therms per day of Mist storage capacity that had previously been available for storage services was recalled and committed to use for core utility customers. This is the first recalled capacity since 2004. Under our regulatory agreement with the OPUC, storage capacity that has been developed and used by the gas storage segment can be recalled as needed and transferred to utility rate base at our original cost less accumulated depreciation, with a corresponding rate increase to customers to reflect the cost of service. The core utility market now has 2.4 million therms per day of deliverability and approximately 9 Bcf of working gas committed from the Mist storage facility. As storage capacity is recalled to serve core utility customers, we may be able to develop new storage capacity to replace it and continue serving interstate customers. We also have contracts with The Williams Companies’ Northwest Pipeline (Northwest Pipeline) for firm gas storage services from an underground storage facility at Jackson Prairie near Chehalis, Washington, and an LNG facility at Plymouth, Washington. Together, these two facilities provide us with daily firm deliverability of about 1.1 million therms and total seasonal capacity of about 16 million therms. Separate contracts with Northwest Pipeline provide for the transportation of these storage supplies to our service territory. All of these contracts have reached the end of their primary terms, but we have exercised our renewal rights that allow for annual extensions at our option. Company-owned LNG. We own and operate two LNG storage facilities in our Oregon service territory that liquefy gas for storage during the summer months so that it is available for withdrawal during the peak winter heating season. These two facilities provide a maximum combined daily deliverability of 1.8 million therms and a total seasonal capacity of 17 million therms. Recallable capacity from transportation customers. We also have contracts with one electric generator and two industrial customers that together provide an additional 52,000 therms per day of year-round upstream capacity, plus 390,000 therms per day of recallable capacity and supply. The contracts for 52,000 therms per day of year-round capacity expire in July 2009. Two of the three recallable capacity/supply contracts are renewed on a year-to-year basis, while the third expires in 2010 at which time we would expect to renew annually. Transportation Single transportation pipeline. Our distribution system is directly connected to a single interstate pipeline, Northwest Pipeline. Although we are dependent on a single pipeline, the pipeline’s 10 Table of Contents gas flows are bi-directional and it transports gas into the Portland metropolitan market from two directions: (1) the north, which brings supplies from British Columbia and Alberta supply basins; and (2) the east, which brings supplies from Alberta as well as the U.S. Rocky Mountain supply basins. In 2003 a federal order requiring Northwest Pipeline to replace its 26-inch mainline from the Canadian border to our service territory underscored the need for pipeline transportation diversity. That replacement project was completed by Northwest Pipeline in November 2006. We are pursuing options to further diversify our pipeline transportation paths. Specifically, we are currently developing plans to build a pipeline project (Palomar) that would connect TransCanada Pipelines Limited’s (TransCanada) Gas Transmission Northwest (GTN) interstate transmission line to our gas distribution system. In August 2007, we entered into an agreement with GTN for the purpose of jointly developing, owning and operating this proposed pipeline. Additionally, we entered into precedent agreements to become a shipper on the Palomar Pipeline. If constructed, this pipeline would provide an alternate transportation path for gas purchases from Alberta that currently move through the Northwest Pipeline system (See Part II, Item 7., “2009 Outlook”). Rates. FERC establishes rates for interstate pipeline transportation service under long-term transportation agreements within the U.S., and Canadian federal or provincial authorities establish rates for service under agreements with the Canadian pipelines over which we ship gas. Transportation agreements. The largest of our transportation agreements with Northwest Pipeline extends through September 2013 and provides for firm transportation capacity of up to 2.1 million therms per day. This agreement provides access to natural gas supplies in British Columbia and the U.S. Rocky Mountains. Our second largest transportation agreement with Northwest Pipeline extends through November 2011. It provides up to 1.0 million therms per day of firm transportation capacity from the point of interconnection of the Northwest Pipeline and GTN systems in eastern Oregon to our service territory. GTN’s pipeline runs from the U.S./Canadian border through northern Idaho, southeastern Washington and central Oregon to the California/Oregon border. We have firm long-term capacity on GTN’s pipeline and two upstream pipelines in Canada, which match the amount of Northwest Pipeline capacity northward into Alberta, Canada. We also have an agreement with Northwest Pipeline that previously extended into 2009 for approximately 350,000 therms per day of firm transportation capacity from the U.S. Rocky Mountain region. In February 2008, we extended the term of this contract through 2044. Also in February 2008, we executed an agreement with a third party to take assignment of their firm gas supply transportation contract starting no earlier than 2012 nor later than 2017, with the term extending through 2046. This contract consists of 120,000 therms per day on Northwest Pipeline from the U.S. Rocky Mountain region. In addition, we have firm long-term pipeline transportation contracts with two other major transporters located in Canada. One contract extends through October 2014 and provides approximately 600,000 therms per day of firm gas transportation from Station 2 in northern British Columbia to the Huntingdon/Sumas connection with Northwest Pipeline at the U.S./Canadian border. Another contract extends through October 2020 and provides approximately 470,000 therms per day of firm gas transportation from southeastern British Columbia to the same Huntingdon/Sumas connection with Northwest Pipeline. Our capacity on this second contract is matched with companion contracts for pipeline capacity on the TransCanada BC system and NOVA system in British Columbia and Alberta, allowing purchases to be made from the gas fields of Alberta, Canada. 11 Table of Contents Integrated Resource Plan The OPUC and WUTC have implemented IRP processes under which utilities develop plans defining alternative growth scenarios and resource acquisition strategies. Elements of these plans include: • an evaluation of supply and demand resources; • the consideration of uncertainties in the planning process and the need for flexibility to respond to changes; • a primary goal of “least cost” service; and • consistency with state energy policy. We filed our 2008 IRP with the OPUC and an update to our 2007 IRP with the WUTC in April 2008. In October 2008, we received notification from the WUTC that our 2007 IRP met the requirements of the Washington Administrative Code. In January 2009, the OPUC acknowledged our 2008 IRP. Although OPUC acknowledgment of the IRP does not constitute ratemaking approval of any specific resource acquisition strategy or expenditure, the OPUC generally indicates that it would give considerable weight in prudency reviews to utility actions that are consistent with acknowledged plans. The WUTC has indicated that the IRP process is one factor it will consider in a prudency review. Competition and Marketing Competition with Other Energy Products We have no direct competition in our service area from other natural gas distributors. However, for residential customers, we compete primarily with electricity, fuel oil and propane. We also compete with electricity and fuel oil for commercial applications. In the industrial market, we compete with all forms of energy, including competition from third-party sellers of natural gas commodity. Competition among gas suppliers is based on price, perceived environmental impact, sustainability, reliability, efficiency and performance, market conditions, technology and legislative policy. Whether or not we provide the gas supplies to serve our transportation-eligible customers, our net margins are not materially affected because we generally do not make any margin on the commodity sales to our utility customers (see “Industrial Markets,” below). Residential and Commercial Markets The relatively low market saturation of natural gas in residential single-family dwellings in our service territory, estimated at approximately 50 percent, and our operating convenience and environmental advantage over fuel oil, provides the potential for continuing growth from residential and commercial conversions. In 2008, 9,609 net new residential customers were added, primarily from single- and multi-family new construction, but also from the conversion of existing homes from oil, electric or propane appliances to natural gas. The net increase of all new customers added in 2008 was 10,329. This represents a 12-month growth rate of 1.6 percent, which is above the national average for local gas distribution companies as reported by the American Gas Association. On an annual basis, residential and commercial customers typically account for about 55 percent of our utility’s total volumes delivered and about 85 percent of gross operating revenues, while industrial customers account for about 45 percent of volumes and about 13 percent of gross revenues. The remaining 2% of gross operating revenues is derived from miscellaneous services and other regulatory charges. 12 Table of Contents Industrial Markets Competition to serve the industrial and large commercial market in the Pacific Northwest has been relatively unchanged since the early 1990s in terms of numbers and types of competitors. Competitors consist of gas marketers, oil/propane sellers and electric utilities. Industrial customers we serve include: pulp, paper and other forest products; the manufacture of electronic, electrochemical and electrometallurgical products; the processing of farm and food products; the production of various mineral products; metal fabrication and casting; the production of machine tools, machinery and textiles; the manufacture of asphalt, concrete and rubber; printing and publishing; nurseries; government and educational institutions; and electric generation. No individual customer or industry group accounts for a significant portion of our revenues or margins. The OPUC and WUTC have approved transportation tariffs under which we may contract with customers to deliver customer-owned gas. Transportation tariffs available to industrial customers are priced at our sales service rate less the commodity cost included in that rate. Therefore, we are unaffected financially if industrial customers buy commodity supplies directly from marketers rather than purchasing gas from us, as long as they remain on a tariff or contract with the same quality of service. We do not generally make any margin on the sale of the gas commodity. However, industrial customers may select between firm and interruptible service, among other levels of service, and these choices can positively or negatively affect margin. The relative level and volatility of prices in the natural gas commodity markets, along with the availability of pipeline capacity to ship customer-owned gas, are among the primary factors that have caused some industrial customers to alternate between sales and transportation service or between higher and lower levels of service. We redesigned our industrial rates in Oregon and Washington as part of our general rate cases in 2003 and 2004, respectively, in order to better reflect relative costs of service and to become more competitive in the industrial market. In August 2006, the OPUC and WUTC approved tariff changes to the service options for our industrial accounts. The changes set out additional parameters that give us more certainty in the level of gas supplies we will need to purchase in order to serve this customer group. The parameters include an annual election cycle period, special pricing provisions for out-of-cycle changes and the requirement that customers on our annual weighted average cost of gas tariff complete the agreed upon term of their service. In the case of customers switching out-of-cycle from transportation to sales service, the customer will be charged the cost of incremental gas supply under our regulatory tariff. We have negotiated special transportation service agreements with several of our largest industrial customers. These special agreements are designed to provide transportation rates that are competitive with the customer’s alternative capital and operating costs of installing direct connections to Northwest Pipeline’s interstate pipeline system, which would allow them to bypass our gas distribution system. These agreements generally prohibit bypass during their terms. Due to the cost pressures that confront a number of our largest customers competing in global markets, bypass continues to be a competitive threat. Although we do not expect a significant number of our large customers to bypass our system in the foreseeable future, we may experience further deterioration of margin associated with customers transferring to special contracts where pricing is specifically designed to be competitive with their bypass alternative. 13 Table of Contents Gas Storage Our gas storage business segment includes natural gas storage services provided to interstate and intrastate customers in the Pacific Northwest using underground gas storage and pipeline facilities we own and operate. We also use an independent energy marketing company to provide asset optimization services for the utility under a contractual arrangement, the results of which are included in this business segment. Currently, 3 percent of our consolidated assets and 12 percent of our consolidated net income in 2008 are related to the gas storage business segment. For each of the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, this business segment derived a majority of its revenues from multi-year contracts with less than 10 customers taking service at our Mist storage facility. The total working gas capacity at our Mist gas storage facility is approximately 16 Bcf. Of this capacity, approximately 9 Bcf, or 56 percent of storage capacity, is currently used by our utility, and the remaining 7 Bcf, or 44 percent, is committed to gas storage customers primarily under firm storage contracts. See Note 2 for more information on total assets and results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. Pre-tax income from gas storage at Mist and third-party optimization services using our utility’s storage or transportation capacity is subject to revenue sharing with core utility customers. In Oregon, 80 percent of the pre-tax income is retained by the gas storage segment when the costs of the capacity used have not been included in utility rates, or 33 percent of the pre-tax income is retained when the capacity costs have been included in utility rates. The remaining 20 percent and 67 percent of pre-tax income in each case are credited to a deferred regulatory account for refund to our core utility customers. We have a similar sharing mechanism in Washington for pre-tax income derived from gas storage services and third-party optimization activities. We are currently in the process of developing a second underground gas storage facility and related pipeline in the Fresno, California area. This project is expected to serve the California market. We plan to move ahead with construction later this year, subject to market conditions and our ability to obtain regulatory approvals (see “Gill Ranch,” below). Seasonality of business. Generally, gas storage revenues do not follow seasonal patterns similar to those experienced by the utility because rates for firm storage contracts are in the form of fixed monthly reservation charges and are not affected by customer usage. However, there is some seasonal variation from the optimization of excess utility storage and related transportation capacity. Excess capacity is usually available during the spring and summer months when the demand for gas by utility customers is low. Customers. Our gas storage business segment generally enters into contracts with customers for firm storage capacity for terms ranging from one to 10 years. Currently, our revenues are primarily derived from a few large storage customers who provide energy related services, including natural gas distribution, electric generation and energy marketing companies. Five storage customers currently contracted account for over 90 percent of our existing gas storage capacity, with the largest customer accounting for about half of total capacity. These five customers have contracts that expire at various dates between April 2009 through March 2015, with the largest customer’s contract expiring in March 2015. 14 Table of Contents Competitive conditions. Our existing gas storage facility faces limited competition from other west coast storage projects primarily because of its geographic location. In the future, we could face increased competition from new or expanded natural gas storage facilities as well as from natural gas pipelines and marketers. Interstate gas storage. This part of the business segment currently provides firm and interruptible gas storage services at Mist with related transportation services on the utility’s system to and from Mist to interstate pipeline interconnections. The interstate storage services, and maximum rates for these services, are authorized by the FERC. The storage capacity used by this business segment has been developed as a non-utility investment by NW Natural in advance of core utility customers’ requirements. Intrastate gas storage. We provide intrastate gas storage services under an OPUC-approved rate schedule that includes service and site-specific qualifications. The firm storage service terms and conditions mirror the firm interstate storage service regulated by FERC, except that these customers are located and served in Oregon. Gill Ranch. In September 2007, we announced a joint project with Pacific Gas & Electric Company (PG&E) to develop a new underground natural gas storage facility at Gill Ranch near Fresno, California (Gill Ranch). We formed a wholly-owned subsidiary of NW Natural to develop and operate the facility, Gill Ranch Storage, LLC. Our subsidiary will initially own 75 percent of the project, and PG&E will own 25 percent. The initial development of this new storage facility is expected to provide approximately 20 Bcf of underground gas storage capacity and will include approximately 27 miles of transmission pipeline when the initial phase is completed. We estimate our 75 percent share of the total project cost for the initial phase of development, which began in 2008 and is expected to continue through 2010, to be between $160 million and $180 million. In July 2008, Gill Ranch filed an application with the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) for a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity. If granted, Gill Ranch will be subject to CPUC regulation with respect to rates and will require regulatory approvals for certain activities, including but not limited to securities issuance, terms of services, systems of accounts, lien grants and sales of property. We expect the initial phase of Gill Ranch to be in-service by late 2010. Other We have non-utility investments and other business activities which are aggregated and reported as a business segment called “Other.” Although in the aggregate these investments and activities are not material, we identify and report them as a stand-alone segment based on our current organization structure and decision-making process and because these business investments and activities are not specifically related to our utility or gas storage segments. This segment primarily consists of an equity method investment in a joint venture to build and operate an interstate gas transmission pipeline in Oregon (see Part II, Item 7., “2009 Outlook—Strategic Opportunities—Pipeline Diversification,” below) and pipeline assets in NNG Financial Corporation, as well as some operating and non-operating expenses of the parent company that cannot be charged to utility operations. Until recently, this segment also had equity investments in several windpower and solar electric generating projects in California and a Boeing 737 aircraft leased to a commercial airline. The aircraft investment was sold in April 2008, and the windpower and solar investments were sold in years prior to 2008. Approximately 1 percent of our consolidated assets and about 3 percent of 2008 consolidated net income are related to activities in the “Other” business segment. See Note 2 for more information on total assets and results of operations for the three years ended December 31, 2008. 15 Table of Contents Regulation and Rates We are subject to regulation with respect to, among other matters, rates, terms of services, and systems of accounts established by the OPUC, the WUTC and the FERC. The OPUC and WUTC also regulate our issuance of securities. Approximately 90 percent of our utility operating revenues are derived from Oregon customers, and the balance is derived from Washington customers. We periodically file general rate case and rate tariff requests with the OPUC, WUTC and FERC to change the rates we charge our utility and storage customers. With certain exceptions, our most recent agreement with the OPUC precludes us from filing a general rate case request before September 2011, but does not preclude us from filing other types of rate adjustment requests. In 2008, we filed a general rate case in Washington that was approved on December 26, 2008 with the resulting changes to rates effective on January 1, 2009 (see Part II, Item 7., “Results of Operations—Regulatory Matters—General Rate Cases,” below). We are required under our Mist interstate storage certificate authority and rate approval orders to file every three years either a petition for rate approval or a cost and revenue study to change or justify maintaining the existing rates for the interstate storage service. In the future, we may be subject to regulation in other states, such as California, resulting from our strategic investments such as Gill Ranch. For further information, see Part II, Item 7., “Results of Operations—Regulatory Matters,” and “Gas Storage—Gill Ranch,” above. Environmental Issues Properties and Facilities We have properties and facilities that are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations related to environmental matters. These laws and regulations may require expenditures over a long timeframe to control environmental effects. Estimates of liabilities for environmental response costs are difficult to determine with precision because of the various factors that can affect their ultimate disposition. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: • the complexity of the site; • changes in environmental laws and regulations at the federal, state and local levels; • the number of regulatory agencies or other parties involved; • new technology that renders previous technology obsolete, or experience with existing technology that proves ineffective; • the ultimate selection of a particular technology; • the level of remediation required; and • variations between the estimated and actual period of time that must be dedicated to respond to an environmentally-contaminated site. We own, or previously owned, properties currently being investigated that may require environmental response, including: a property in Multnomah County, Oregon that is the site of a former gas manufacturing plant that was closed in 1956 (Gasco site); a property adjacent to the Gasco site that is now the location of a manufacturing plant owned by Siltronic Corporation (Siltronic site); an area adjacent to the Gasco and the Siltronic sites in the Willamette River that has been listed by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency as a Superfund site for which we have been identified as one of a number of potentially responsible parties (Portland Harbor site); the former location of a gas manufacturing plant operated by our predecessor that is outside the geographic scope of the current Portland Harbor site (Front Street site); and the former site of three manufactured gas tanks (Central 16 Table of Contents Service Center site). Based on our current assessment of regulatory and insurance recovery of environmental costs, we do not expect that the ultimate resolution of these matters will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows; however, if it is determined that both the insurance recovery and future rate recovery of such costs are not probable, then the costs not expected to be recovered will be charged to expense in the period such determination is made and could have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. See Note 12, for a further discussion of potential environmental responses, related costs and regulatory and insurance recovery. Future Environmental Issues We recognize that our business is likely to face future carbon constraints. A variety of legislative and regulatory measures to address greenhouse gas emissions are in various phases of discussion or implementation. These include the proposed international standards, proposed federal legislation and proposed or enacted state actions to develop statewide or regional programs, each of which have imposed or would impose measures to achieve reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. The outcome of federal and state climate change initiatives cannot be determined at this time, but these initiatives could produce a number of results including potential new regulations, additional charges to fund energy efficiency activities, or other regulatory actions. These actions could result in increased costs associated with operating and maintaining our facilities, could increase other costs to our business and could impact the prices we charge our customers. Because natural gas is a fossil fuel with low carbon content, it is possible that future carbon constraints could create additional demand for natural gas, both for electric production and direct use in homes and businesses. We continue to take steps to address future greenhouse gas emission issues, including actively participating in policy development through the Oregon Governor’s Task Force on Climate Change and leading efforts within the American Gas Association to promote the enactment of fair federal climate change legislation. In 2008, our current President and CEO was appointed to the newly formed Oregon Global Warming Commission. We continue to engage in policy development and in identifying ways to reduce greenhouse gas emissions associated with our operations and our customers’ gas use, including the introduction of the Smart Energy program, which allows customers to contribute funds to projects that offset greenhouse gases produced from their natural gas use. Employees At December 31, 2008, our workforce consisted of 717 members of the Office and Professional Employees International Union (OPEIU), Local No. 11, AFL-CIO, and approximately 400 management level and other non-bargaining employees. Our labor agreement (Joint Accord) with members of OPEIU that covers wages, benefits and working conditions extends to May 31, 2009, and thereafter from year to year unless either party serves notice of its intent to negotiate modifications to the collective bargaining agreement. Each party has served notice of intent to negotiate the terms of an agreement prior to the May 31, 2009 expiration date. Additions to Infrastructure We expect to make a significant level of capital expenditures for additions to utility and storage infrastructure over the next five years, reflecting continued investments in customer growth, technology, distribution system enhancements and the development of additional gas storage facilities. In 2009, utility capital expenditures are estimated to be between $100 and $110 million, and non-utility 17 Table of Contents capital investments are estimated to be between $50 and $70 million for business development projects that are currently in process. For the years 2009-2013, capital expenditures for the utility are estimated to be between $450 and $500 million, while the amount for business development investments after 2009 will depend largely on future decisions about potential opportunities in gas storage and pipeline projects. Available Information We file annual, quarterly and special reports and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Reports, proxy statements and other information filed by us can be read and copied at the public reference room of the SEC, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You can obtain additional information about the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a website (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy statements and other information that we file electronically. In addition, we make available on our website (http://www.nwnatural.com), our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, as well as proxy materials, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) and Section 14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. We have adopted a Code of Ethics for all employees and a Financial Code of Ethics that applies to senior financial employees, both of which are available on our website. We intend to disclose amendments to, and any waivers from, such codes of ethics on our website. Our Corporate Governance Standards, Director Independence Standards, charters of each of the committees of the Board of Directors and additional information about us are also available on the website. Copies of these documents may be requested, at no cost, by writing or calling Shareholder Services, NW Natural, One Pacific Square, 220 N.W. Second Avenue, Portland, Oregon 97209, telephone 503-226-4211. Our Chief Executive Officer certified to the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) on May 23, 2008 that, as of that date, he was not aware of any violation by the company of the NYSE’s corporate governance listing standards, and that we had filed with the SEC, as Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, the certificates of the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer certifying the quality of NW Natural’s internal control over financial reporting and public disclosures. For the year-ended December 31, 2008, the certificates of the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer are filed with this report as Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business and financial results are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. When considering any investment in our securities, investors should consider the following information, as well as information contained in the caption “Forward Looking Statements,” and other documents we file with the SEC. This list is not exhaustive and our management places no priority or likelihood based on their order of presentation. Economic risk. Changes in the economy and in the financial markets may have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. The global credit and financial markets have been experiencing significant disruption and volatility in recent months. At the same time the U.S. economy has slowed, unemployment rates are 18 Table of Contents rising, and there has been an increase in mortgage defaults and a decrease in the value of homes and investment assets, which has adversely affected the income and financial resources of many domestic households. It is unclear whether the federal responses to these conditions will lessen the severity or duration of this economic downturn. Our operations are affected by these economic conditions. Less new housing construction, fewer conversions to natural gas, higher levels of residential foreclosures and vacancies, and personal and business bankruptcies or reduced spending could all result in a decline in energy consumption and customer growth and have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Regulatory risk. Regulation of our business, including changes in the regulatory environment in general, and failure of regulatory authorities to approve rates which provide for timely recovery of our costs and an adequate return on invested capital in particular, may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. The OPUC and WUTC have general regulatory authority over our utility business in Oregon and Washington, respectively, including rates and charges, the issuance of securities, services and facilities, terms of customer services, system of accounts, investments, safety standards, transactions with affiliated interests and other matters. In addition, FERC has regulatory authority over our interstate gas storage services, and the CPUC will have regulatory authority over our Gill Ranch gas storage development and operations. The rates we charge to customers must be approved by the applicable regulatory agencies. Our rates are generally designed to allow us to recover the costs of providing such services and to earn an adequate return on our capital investment. However, we expect the rates charged to customers of Gill Ranch for gas storage services will be based on what customers are willing to pay (i.e. market-based rates) rather than on our recovery of costs plus a return on our investment. We expect to continue to make expenditures to expand, improve and operate our distribution and storage systems. Regulators can deny recovery of expenditures we make if they find that such expenditures were not prudently incurred according to their regulatory standards. In addition, in the normal course of our business we may place assets in service or incur higher levels of operating expense before rate cases can be filed to recover those costs—this is commonly referred to as “regulatory lag.” The failure of any regulatory commission to approve requested rate increases on a timely basis to recover increased costs or to allow an adequate return could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Gas price risk. Higher natural gas commodity prices and volatility in the price of gas may adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. In recent years, we have seen a significant increase in the volatility of natural gas commodity prices, primarily due to shifts in the balance of supply and demand. Early in 2008, we saw natural gas prices rise to record high levels as demand grew, especially for new electric power generation, which was outpacing North American gas production. Then during the second half of 2008, the price of natural gas fell significantly as our national economy fell into a recession and demand for natural gas declined while North American gas production increased. There are a number of external factors that affect the balance of natural gas supply and demand, including the level of gas imports, regional accessibility to gas supplies, supply disruptions, changes in the global energy markets, the availability of pipeline capacity to transport natural gas from region to region and changes in general economic conditions. The cost we pay for natural gas is generally passed through to our customers through an 19 Table of Contents annual PGA rate adjustment in Oregon and Washington (see below). Significant increases in the commodity price of natural gas raises the cost of energy to our existing customers, thereby causing those customers to conserve or potentially switch to alternate sources of energy. Significant price increases could also cause new home builders and commercial developers to select heating systems other than natural gas. Decreases in the volume of gas we sell could reduce our earnings in the absence of decoupled rate structures, and a decline in customers could slow growth in our future earnings. Higher gas prices may also cause us to experience an increase in short-term debt and temporarily reduce liquidity because we pay suppliers for gas when it is purchased, which can be materially in advance of when these costs are recovered through rates. Significant increases in the price of gas can also slow our collection efforts as customers experience increased difficulty in paying their higher energy bills, leading to higher than normal delinquent accounts receivable. This could contribute to higher short-term debt levels, greater expense associated with collection efforts and increased bad debt expense. In Oregon and Washington, our utility has PGA tariffs which provide for annual revisions in rates resulting from changes in the cost of purchased gas including the expected impact on bad debt expense. In Oregon, we also have a price-elasticity adjustment that adjusts rates through the annual PGA for expected increases or decreases in customer usage due to higher or lower gas prices. The Oregon PGA tariff also provides an incentive to the Company to achieve lower gas costs such that a percentage, set annually, of any difference between the actual purchased gas costs and the actual recoveries of gas costs in rates be recognized as current income or expense (see Part II, Item 7., “Results of Operations—Regulatory Matters—Rate Mechanisms”). Accordingly, higher gas costs than those assumed in setting rates can adversely affect our operating cash flows, liquidity and results of operations, until such costs are recovered from customers. Notwithstanding our current rate structure, higher gas costs could result in increased pressure on the OPUC or the WUTC to seek other means to reduce rates, which also could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Inability to access capital market risk. Our inability to access capital or significant increases in the cost of capital could adversely affect our business. Our ability to obtain adequate and cost effective short-term and long-term financing depends on our credit ratings as well as the liquidity and stability of financial markets. Our businesses rely on access to capital markets, including the commercial paper markets, to finance our operations, construction expenditures and other business requirements, and to refund maturing debt that cannot be funded entirely by internal cash flows. A negative change in our ratings by credit rating agencies could adversely affect our financing cost, liquidity and access to capital. Additionally, downgrades in our current credit ratings below investment-grade could cause additional delays in accessing the credit markets by the utility while we seek supplemental regulatory approval from the OPUC. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets could also adversely affect our ability to access short-term and long-term capital. Our access to funds under committed short-term credit facilities, which are currently provided by a number of banks, is dependent on the ability of the participating banks to meet their funding commitments. Those banks may not be able to meet their funding commitments if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity. Longer disruptions in the bank or capital financing markets as a result of economic uncertainty, changing or increased regulation of the financial sector, or failure of major financial institutions could adversely affect our access to capital and may negatively impact our ability to run the business and make strategic investments. 20 Table of Contents Hedging risk. Our risk management policies and hedging activities cannot eliminate the risk of commodity price movements and other financial market risks, and our hedging activities may expose us to additional liabilities for which rate recovery may be disallowed. Our gas purchasing requirements expose us to risks of commodity price movements, while our use of debt and equity financing exposes us to interest rate and other financial market risks. We attempt to manage these exposures and mitigate our risks through enforcement of established risk limits and risk management procedures, including hedging activities that are in accordance with our derivatives policies. These risk limits and risk management procedures may not always work as planned and cannot entirely eliminate the risks associated with hedging. Additionally, our hedging activities may cause us to incur additional expenses which could result in a material adverse effect on our operating revenues, costs, derivative assets and liabilities, and operating cash flows. We cannot and do not hedge our entire interest rate or commodity cost exposure, and the unhedged exposure will vary over time. Gains or losses experienced through hedging activities, including carrying costs, generally flow through the PGA mechanism or are recovered in future general rate cases, thereby limiting our exposure to earnings volatility on a year-to-year basis. However, the hedge transactions we enter into for the utility are subject to a prudency review by the OPUC and WUTC, and, if deemed imprudent, those expenses may be disallowed, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating revenues, costs, derivative assets and liabilities, and operating cash flows. In addition, actual business requirements and available resources may vary from forecasts, which are used as the basis for our hedging decisions, and could cause our exposure to be more or less hedged than we anticipated. Additionally, if our derivative instruments and hedging transactions do not qualify for hedge accounting under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,” our hedges may not be effective and our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. We also have credit related exposure to financial derivative counterparties. In general, we require our counterparties to have a high level investment-grade credit rating at the time the derivative instrument is entered into, and we specify limits on the contract amount and duration based on each counterparty’s credit rating. Nevertheless, counterparties owing us money or physical natural gas commodities could breach their obligations. Should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative arrangements. In that event, our financial results could be adversely affected. Although our valuations take into account the expected probability of default by counterparties, an actual default by a particular counterparty could have a greater impact than we estimated. Additionally, under most of our hedging arrangements, any downgrade of our senior secured long-term debt credit rating below investment grade could allow our counterparties to require us to post cash, a letter of credit or other form of collateral, which would expose us to additional costs and may trigger significant increases in draws from our borrowing facilities. Customer growth risk. Our results of operations may be negatively affected if we are unable to sustain customer growth rates in our local gas distribution business. Our margins and earnings growth have largely depended upon the sustained growth of our residential and commercial customer base due, in part, to the new construction housing market, conversions of customers to natural gas from other fuel sources and growing commercial use of natural gas. Should there be continued weakness in the new housing market, a slowdown in the conversion market or declining use of natural gas by our residential and commercial customer base, there could be an adverse long-term impact on our utility margin, earnings and cash flows. 21 Table of Contents Risk of competition. Our gas distribution and storage businesses are subject to increased competition which could negatively affect our results of operations. In the residential market, our gas distribution business competes primarily with suppliers of electricity, fuel oil and propane. We also compete with suppliers of electricity and fuel oil for commercial applications. In the industrial market, we compete with all forms of energy suppliers. Competition among these forms of energy is based on price, reliability, efficiency and performance. Higher natural gas prices have at times eroded, or in some cases eliminated, the competitive price advantage of natural gas over other energy sources. Also, technological improvements in other energy sources could erode our competitive advantage. If natural gas prices continue to rise relative to other energy sources, it may negatively affect our ability to attract new customers, and our residential, commercial and industrial customers may use alternative sources of energy or bypass our systems in favor of contracts with lower per-unit costs, which could have a negative impact on our customer growth rate and results of operations. Additionally, our existing gas storage segment currently faces limited competition from other west coast storage projects primarily because of its geographic location. In the future, we could face increased competition from new or expanded natural gas storage facilities, interstate pipelines and gas marketers seeking to provide or arrange transportation, storage and other services for customers. Reliance on third parties to supply natural gas risk. We rely on third parties to supply all of the natural gas we store and deliver, and limitations on our ability to obtain supplies could have a material impact on our financial results. Our ability to provide natural gas for current and future sales depends upon our ability to obtain and deliver supplies of natural gas, as well as our ability to acquire supplies directly from new sources. Certain factors including the following may affect our ability to acquire and deliver natural gas to our current and future customers: suppliers or other third parties’ control over the drilling of new wells and facilities to transport natural gas to our distribution system; competition for the acquisition of natural gas; priority allocations on transmission pipelines; impact of severe weather disruptions to natural gas supplies such as occurred with Hurricane Katrina in 2005; the regulatory and pricing policies of federal, state and local government agencies; and the availability of Canadian reserves for export to the United States. If we are unable to obtain or are limited in our ability to obtain natural gas from our current suppliers or new sources, our financial results could be materially impacted. Single transportation pipeline risk. We rely on a single pipeline company for the transportation of gas to our service territory, a disruption of which could adversely impact our ability to meet our customers’ gas requirements. Our distribution system is directly connected to a single interstate pipeline, Northwest Pipeline. The pipeline’s gas flows are bi-directional and it transports gas into the Portland metropolitan market from two directions: (1) the north, which brings supplies from British Columbia and Alberta supply basins; and (2) the east, which brings supplies from Alberta as well as the U.S. Rocky Mountain supply basins. Our results of operations may be negatively impacted if there is a rupture in the pipeline and we incur costs associated with actions taken to mitigate service disruptions. Business development risk. The development, construction, startup and operation of our business development projects may involve unanticipated changes or delays that could negatively impact our costs as well as our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 22 Table of Contents Business development projects involve many risks. We are in the early development stages on two strategic business development projects: the Gill Ranch gas storage facility in California, and the Palomar gas transmission pipeline in Oregon. We may also engage in other business development projects in the future. With respect to these projects, we may not be able to obtain required governmental permits and approvals, or financing, to complete our projects in a cost-efficient or timely manner. If we do not obtain the necessary regulatory approvals in a timely manner, development projects may be delayed or abandoned. There also may be startup and construction delays, construction cost overruns, inability to negotiate acceptable agreements such as rights-of-way, easements, construction, gas supply or other material contracts, changes in market prices; and operating cost increases. Additionally, natural gas storage and gas transportation markets are intensely competitive, both within the natural gas industry and with alternative sources of energy. To complete our business development projects, we will need to secure financing from willing lenders at reasonable interest rates. If the current tight credit markets persist or become more inaccessible, we may be unable to acquire the necessary financing to fund our business development projects at acceptable interest rates within a timeframe favorable for completing the project. Similarly, an inability to obtain the necessary state permits, secure acceptable financing, or arrange for sufficient supplier commitments, could impact the viability of an LNG terminal on the Columbia river and may mean that we would not proceed with the western portion of Palomar. One or more of these events may mean that our equity investments could become impaired and such impairment could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Joint partner risk. Investing in business development projects through partnerships, joint ventures or other business arrangements decreases our ability to manage certain risks. We use joint ventures and other business arrangements to manage and diversify the risks of certain non-utility development projects, including Palomar and Gill Ranch, and we may acquire interests in other similar types of projects in the future. Under these types of business arrangements, we may not be able to fully direct the management and policies of the business relationships, and other participants in those relationships may take action contrary to our interests. In addition, other participants may withdraw from the project, become financially distressed or bankrupt, or have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours. Although we have contractual and other legal remedies to enforce our interests, if a participant in one of these business arrangements acts contrary to our interests, it could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Environmental risk. Certain of our properties and facilities may pose environmental risks requiring remediation, the cost of which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We own, or previously owned, properties that require environmental remediation or other action. We accrue all material loss contingencies relating to these properties, but our results of operations may be adversely affected to the extent that estimates of the probable costs increase significantly as additional information becomes available and to the extent we are not able to recover the incremental cost from insurance or through customer rates. A regulatory asset has already been recorded for some of these estimated costs pursuant to a deferral order from the OPUC. To the extent we are unable to recover these deferred costs in rates or through insurance, we would be required to reduce our regulatory asset which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, disputes may arise between potentially responsible parties and regulators as to 23 Table of Contents the severity of particular environmental matters and what remediation efforts are appropriate. These disputes could lead to adversarial administrative proceedings or litigation, with uncertain outcomes. We cannot predict with certainty the amount or timing of future expenditures related to environmental investigation and remediation that may be required because of the difficulty of estimating such costs. There is also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on all potentially responsible parties. There are also no assurances that existing environmental regulations will not be revised or that new stricter regulations seeking to protect the environment will not be adopted or become applicable to us. Revised environmental regulations which result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from customers. Global climate change legislation risk. Management expects that future legislation may impose carbon constraints to address global climate change exposing us to regulatory and financial risk. There are a number of new federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives being proposed and adopted in an attempt to control or limit the effects of global warming and overall climate change, including greenhouse gas emissions such as carbon dioxide. The outcome of federal and state actions to address climate change could result in a variety of regulatory programs including potential new regulations, additional requirements to fund energy efficiency activities, or other regulatory actions. These actions could result in increased compliance and other costs, additional operating restrictions, and could impact the prices we charge our customers, which could adversely affect our business practices, financial condition or results of operations. Weather risk. Our results of operations may be negatively affected by warmer than average or colder than average weather. We are exposed to weather risk primarily in our utility business segment. A majority of our volume is driven from gas sales made to space heating residential and commercial customers during each winter heating season. Current utility rates are based on an assumption of average weather. Weather that is warmer than average typically results in lower gas sales. Sustained cold weather could adversely affect our utility margin in the short-term as we may be required to purchase gas at spot rates in a rising price market to obtain sufficient volumes to fulfill customer requirements. Although the effects of warmer or colder weather on utility margin in Oregon are intended to be largely mitigated through the operation of our weather normalization mechanism. Oregon customers may opt out of the mechanism. Approximately 10 percent of our residential and commercial customers are in Washington where we do not have a weather normalization mechanism or conservation tariff. Furthermore, continuation of the weather normalization mechanism and conservation tariff in Oregon after October 2012, are subject to regulatory approval. As a result, we may not be fully protected against warmer than average or colder than average weather, both of which may have an adverse affect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Customer conservation risk. Customers’ conservation efforts may have a negative impact on our revenues. Higher gas costs and rates and an increasing national focus on energy conservation may result in increased gas conservation by customers, which can decrease sales and adversely affect our results of operations. The OPUC authorized our conservation tariff, which is designed to recover lost margin 24 Table of Contents due to changes in residential and commercial customers’ consumption. The conservation tariff is scheduled to expire in October 2012 (see “Results of Operations—Rate Mechanisms—Conservation Tariff,” below). The failure of the OPUC to extend the conservation tariff in the future could adversely affect our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. We do not have a conservation tariff in Washington. Operating risk. Transporting and storing natural gas involves numerous risks that may result in accidents and other operating risks and costs. Our gas distribution activities are subject to a variety of operating hazards and risks that cannot be completely avoided, such as leaks, accidents, mechanical problems, fires, explosions, earthquakes, floods, storms, landslides and other adverse weather conditions and hazards, which could cause substantial financial losses. In addition, these risks could result in loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution and disruption of our operations, which in turn could lead to substantial losses. The occurrence of any of these events may not be covered by our insurance policies or be recoverable through rates, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Business continuity risk. We may be adversely impacted by national disasters, terrorist activities and other extreme events to which we may not able to promptly respond. National disasters, terrorist activities and other extreme events are a threat to our assets and operations. Companies in our industry may face a heightened risk to exposure to actual acts of terrorism that could target or impact our natural gas distribution, transmission and storage facilities and result in a disruption in our operations and ability to meet customer requirements. In addition, the threat of terrorist activities could lead to increased economic instability and volatility in the price of natural gas that could affect our operations. Threatened or actual national disasters or terrorist activities may also disrupt capital markets and our ability to raise capital, or impact our suppliers or our customers directly. We maintain emergency planning and training programs to remain ready to respond to extreme events. However, a slow or inadequate response to extreme events may have an adverse affect on operations and earnings. We may not be able to obtain sufficient insurance to cover all risks associated with national disasters, terrorist activities and other extreme events, which could increase the risk that an event could adversely affect our operations or financial results. Employee benefit risk. The cost of providing pension and postretirement healthcare benefits is subject to changes in pension asset values, changing demographics and actuarial assumptions which may have an adverse effect on our financial results. We provide pension plans and postretirement healthcare benefits to eligible full-time employees. Our costs of providing such benefits is subject to changes in the market value of our pension fund assets, changing demographics, including longer life expectancies of beneficiaries, an expected increase in the number of eligible former employees over the next five to 10 years, increases in healthcare costs, current and future legislative changes and various actuarial calculations and assumptions. The actuarial assumptions used may differ materially from actual results due to changing market and economic conditions, withdrawal rates, interest rates and other factors. These differences may result in a significant impact on the amount of pension expense or other postretirement benefit costs recorded in future periods. Sustained declines in equity markets and reductions in bond yields may have a material adverse effect on the value of our pension fund assets. In these circumstances, we may be required to recognize increased contributions and pension expense earlier than we had planned 25 Table of Contents to the extent that the value of pension assets is less than the total anticipated liability under the plans, which could have a negative impact on cash flows and results of operations. Workforce risk. Our business is heavily dependent on being able to attract and retain qualified employees and to maintain a competitive cost structure with market-based salaries and employee benefits, and workforce disruptions could adversely affect our operations and results. Our ability to implement our business strategy and serve our customers in our gas distribution business is dependent upon our continuing ability to attract and retain talented professionals and a technically skilled workforce, and being able to transfer the knowledge and expertise of our workforce to new employees as our aging employees retire. Without an appropriately skilled workforce, our ability to provide quality service to our customers and meet our regulatory requirements will be challenged and this could negatively impact our earnings. Additionally, a majority of our workers are represented by Office and Professional Employees International Union Local No.11 AFL-CIO (the Union) and are covered by a collective bargaining agreement that will expire May 31, 2009. The Company and the Union are expected to negotiate an agreement, but failure to reach an acceptable collective bargaining agreement with the Union in a timely manner could result in instability in our labor relationship and work stoppages that could impact the timely delivery of our product and services, which could strain relationships with customers and state regulators and cause a loss of revenues which could adversely affect our results of operations. The terms of a revised collective bargaining agreement may increase the cost of employing our workforce, affect our ability to continue offering market-based salaries and employee benefits, limit our flexibility in dealing with our workforce, and limit our ability to change work rules and practices and implement other efficiency-related improvements to successfully compete effectively in today’s competitive marketplace. Legislative and taxing authority risk. We are subject to governmental regulation, and our compliance with local, state and federal requirements, including taxing requirements, and unforeseen changes in or interpretations of such requirements could affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities. We are required to comply with a variety of laws and regulations and to obtain authorizations, permits, approvals and certificates from governmental agencies in various aspects of our business. We cannot predict with certainty the impact of any future revisions or changes in interpretations of existing regulations or the adoption of new laws and regulations applicable to them. Changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations could negatively influence our operating environment and results of operations. For example, Oregon legislation that became effective in 2006, requires that utilities not collect in rates more income taxes than they actually pay to taxing authorities. If amounts paid differ from amounts we collect by more than $100,000 we are required to implement a rate schedule with an automatic adjustment clause to refund or surcharge the difference, which could be material. Additionally, changes in federal, state or local tax laws and their related regulations, or differing interpretation or enforcement of applicable law by a federal, state or local taxing authority could negatively affect our results of operations. Tax law and its related regulations and case law are inherently complex. Disputes over interpretations of tax laws may be settled with the taxing authority in examination, upon appeal or through litigation. Our judgments may include reserves for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that have been taken that may be subject to challenge by 26 Table of Contents taxing authorities. Unforeseen changes in laws, regulations or adverse judgments may negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have no unresolved comments. 