ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business and financial results are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those set forth below and in other documents we file with the SEC. Regulatory risk. The rates we charge customers for gas distribution services are established by the OPUC and the WUTC. The failure to approve rates which provide for recovery of our costs and an adequate return on invested capital may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. The rates and terms at which the utility resells gas to its customers or transports gas owned by large customers from the interstate pipeline connection to the customers’ facilities must be approved by the OPUC or the WUTC. The rates are designed to allow us to recover costs of providing such services and to earn an adequate return on our capital investment. We expect to continue to make significant capital expenditures to expand and improve our distribution system. The failure of the OPUC or the WUTC to approve on a timely basis requested rate increases to recover increased costs or to allow an adequate return could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Gas prices. Higher natural gas commodity prices and fluctuations in the price of gas may adversely affect our earnings. In recent years, natural gas commodity prices have increased dramatically due to growing demand, especially for power generation, and stagnant North American gas production. In Oregon and in Washington, the utility has PGA tariffs which provide for annual revisions in rates resulting from changes in the cost of purchased gas. The Oregon PGA tariff provides that 33 percent of any difference between the actual purchased gas costs and the actual recoveries of gas costs in rates be recognized as current income or expense. Accordingly, higher gas costs than those assumed in setting rates can adversely affect our results of operations. The OPUC has begun a formal review of the PGA process which will cover portfolio requirements, incentive sharing levels and filing requirements, among other items. The investigation is 19 Table of Contents expected to be completed in early 2008. Implementation of any changes to the PGA mechanism is expected in the 2008 PGA filing. Notwithstanding our current rate structure, higher gas costs could result in increased pressure on the OPUC or the WUTC to seek other means to reduce rates, which also could adversely affect our results of operations. Business risk. Our risk management policies and hedging activities cannot eliminate the risk of commodity price movements and may expose us to additional liabilities for which rate recovery may be disallowed. Our gas purchasing requirements expose us to risks of commodity price movements. We attempt to manage our exposure through enforcement of established risk limits and risk management procedures, including hedging activities. These risk limits and risk management procedures may not always work as planned and cannot eliminate the risks associated with gas purchasing and hedging. These practices are subject to regulatory review in setting our PGA tariffs and, if found to be imprudent, could be disallowed, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Customer conservation. Customers’ conservation efforts may have a negative impact on our revenues. Higher gas costs and rates may result in increased conservation by customers, which can decrease sales and adversely affect results of operations. The OPUC authorized our conservation tariff, which is designed to recover lost margin due to changes in residential and commercial customers’ consumption patterns. The conservation tariff is intended to adjust for increases or decreases in consumption attributable to annual changes in commodity costs or periodic changes in general rates and for deviations between actual and expected usage. The conservation tariff expires in September 2009. The failure of the OPUC to extend the conservation tariff in the future could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We do not have a conservation tariff in Washington. Environmental risks. Certain of our properties and facilities may pose environmental risks requiring remediation, the cost of which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Also, management expects that future legislation may impose carbon constraints to address global climate change. We own, or previously owned, properties that require environmental remediation or other action. We accrue all material loss contingencies relating to these properties, but our results of operations may be adversely affected to the extent that estimates of the probable costs increase significantly as additional information becomes available and to the extent we are not able to recover the incremental cost through customer rates or from insurance. A regulatory asset has already been recorded for some of these estimated costs. To the extent we are unable to recover these costs in rates or through insurance, then we would be required to reduce our regulatory asset which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We cannot predict with certainty the amount or timing of future expenditures related to any environmental investigation and remediation that may be required because of the difficulty of estimating such costs. There is also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on all potentially responsible parties. There are also no assurances 20 Table of Contents that existing environmental regulations will not be revised or that new stricter regulations seeking to protect the environment will not be adopted or become applicable to us. Revised environmental regulations which result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from customers. There are a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to address greenhouse gas emissions, which are in various phases of discussion or implementation. The outcome of federal and state actions to address global climate change could result in a variety of regulatory programs including potential new regulations, additional charges to fund energy efficiency activities, or other regulatory actions. These actions could result in increased costs associated with operating and maintaining our facilities, could increase other costs to our business and could impact the prices we charge our customers. Competition. Our gas distribution business is subject to increased competition and eroding price advantage. To the extent that competition increases, our profit margins may be negatively affected. In the residential market, we compete with suppliers of electricity, fuel oil, propane and, to a lesser extent, wood. We also compete with suppliers of electricity and fuel oil for commercial applications. In the industrial market, we compete with all forms of energy suppliers. Competition among these forms of energy is based on price, reliability, efficiency and performance. Higher natural gas prices have eroded, or in some cases eliminated, the competitive price advantage of natural gas over alternative energy sources. If the higher gas price environment is sustained, our ability to attract new customers could be significantly affected, which could have a negative impact on our customer growth rate and results of operations. Single transportation pipeline. We rely on a single pipeline for the transportation of gas to our service territory. We are largely dependent on a single, bi-directional pipeline for transportation of gas into our service territory. Our results of operations may be negatively impacted if there is a rupture in the pipeline and we incur costs associated with actions taken to mitigate disruption of service. Pension funding. The cost of providing pension and other postretirement benefit plans is subject to changes in assumptions, fluctuations in the market value of plan assets and changes in demographics, all of which may have a material effect on our results of operations and cash flows. We maintain two qualified non-contributory defined benefit pension plans, several non-qualified supplemental pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans. We may be required to recognize a material increase or decrease in annual pension or postretirement benefit expense based on changes in assumed interest rates, market returns, expected rate of wage increases and other factors, and we may be required to record a charge to our balance sheet to the extent that projected benefit obligations exceed the fair value of plan assets. Operating risk. Transporting and storing natural gas involves numerous risks that may result in accidents and other operating risks and costs. 21 Table of Contents Our gas distribution activities involve a variety of inherent operating hazards and risks, such as leaks, accidents, mechanical problems, fires, storms, landslides and other adverse weather conditions and hazards, which could cause substantial financial losses. In addition, these risks could result in loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution and disruption of our operations, which in turn could lead to substantial losses. The occurrence of any of these events may not be covered by our insurance policies or recoverable through rates, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Weather risk. Our results of operations may be negatively affected by warmer than average weather. A large portion of the utility’s margin is derived from sales to space heating residential and commercial customers during each winter heating season. Current rates are based on an assumption of average weather. In Oregon, the effects of warmer or colder weather on utility margin are reduced through the operation of our weather normalization mechanism and conservation tariff. However, 9 percent of eligible customers elected not to be covered by the weather normalization mechanism. Also, approximately 10 percent of our residential and commercial customers are in Washington where we do not have a weather normalization mechanism or conservation tariff. As a result, we are not fully protected against warmer than average weather, which may have an adverse affect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Workforce risk. Our business is heavily dependent on being able to attract and retain qualified employees and to maintain a competitive cost structure with market-based salaries and employee benefits. Our gas distribution business is subject to a variety of workforce risks, including being able to attract and retain qualified employees, being able to transfer the knowledge and expertise of an aging workforce to new employees as older workers retire and being able to reach collective bargaining agreements with the union that represents about 70 percent of our workers. Customer growth. Our results of operations may be negatively affected by our ability to sustain customer growth. Our earnings growth and results of operations have largely been dependent upon the sustained growth of our residential and commercial customer base at an annual rate of over 3 percent. If we are unable to sustain these levels of customer growth, our results of operations may be negatively affected. A number of factors could negatively impact our ability to sustain growth, such as a downturn in the economy, reduced housing starts and competition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 