Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Investors should carefully consider the risk factors described below before making an investment decision. If any of the events described in the following risk factors occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially harmed. In that case the trading price of our common stock could decline, and investors may lose all or part of their investment. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of or that we currently deem immaterial may also become important factors that affect Repligen. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We may fail to realize additional benefits from the Novozymes Acquisition. We will be required to expend additional time and resources in order to realize all of the anticipated synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects that we anticipated at the time of the acquisition of the Novozymes Biopharma Business. We may never fully realize these anticipated synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects. Integrating operations is complex and requires significant efforts and expenditures. Assumptions underlying estimated benefits may be inaccurate and general industry and business conditions might deteriorate. Our management might have its attention diverted while continuing the integration of operations and corporate and administrative infrastructures from the Novozymes architecture into the correlative Repligen systems. If any of these factors limit our ability to fully-integrate our operations with those of the Novozymes Biopharma Business successfully or on a timely basis, the expectations of future results of operations, including synergies and other benefits expected to result from the Novozymes Acquisition, might not be met. We incurred significant transaction, integration and other costs in connection with the Novozymes Acquisition and these costs may exceed the realized benefits, if any, of the synergies and efficiencies from the acquisition. We have already incurred significant transaction costs related to the Novozymes Acquisition. In addition, we expect to continue to incur integration costs as we work toward completing the integration of the Novozymes Biopharma Business with our own. Financial, managerial and operational challenges of the Novozymes Acquisition may include: • challenges associated with managing the larger, more complex, combined business; • disruption of our ongoing businesses and diversion of management attention; • difficulties in systems integration, particularly information technology and finance systems, and conforming standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures between the entities; • difficulties in integrating the Novozymes Biopharma Business’ products and technologies; • disruptions in relationships with customers and suppliers; • coordinating geographically dispersed organizations; • risks associated with acquiring intellectual property; • difficulties in operating the Novozymes Biopharma Business profitably; • the inability to achieve anticipated synergies, cost savings or growth; • potential loss of key employees; 10 Table of Contents • unanticipated costs; and • potential disputes with Novozymes Denmark. No assurances can be given that the expected synergies and other benefits of the Novozymes Acquisition will exceed the transaction and integration costs and the costs associated with these potential financial, managerial and operational challenges, or that expected synergies and other benefits will be achieved in the near term or at all. If intangible assets that we recorded in connection with the Novozymes Acquisition become impaired, we could have to take significant charges against earnings. In connection with the accounting for the Novozymes Acquisition, we recorded a significant amount of intangible assets, including developed technology and customer relationships. Under U.S. GAAP, we must assess, at least annually and potentially more frequently, whether the value of intangible assets has been impaired. Intangible assets will be assessed for impairment in the event of an impairment indicator. Any reduction or impairment of the value of intangible assets will result in a charge against earnings, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and shareholders’ equity in future periods. Our exposure to political, economic and other risks that arise from operating a multinational business has increased dramatically since the consummation of the Novozymes Acquisition. Our operations and sales outside of the United States have increased and may continue to increase as a result of the Novozymes Acquisition. Risks related to these increased foreign operations include: • changes in general economic and political conditions in countries where we operate, particularly as a result of ongoing economic instability within the European Union; • being subject to complex and restrictive employment and labor laws and regulations, as well as union and works council restrictions; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • changes in tax laws or rulings in the United States or other foreign jurisdictions that may have an adverse impact on our effective tax rate; • being subject to burdensome foreign laws and regulations, including regulations that may place an increased tax burden on our operations; • being subject to longer payment cycles from customers and experiencing greater difficulties in timely accounts receivable collections; and • required compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations. Our business success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks to which our exposure has increased following the Novozymes Acquisition. We cannot assure you that these and other related factors will not materially adversely affect our international operations or business as a whole since the consummation of the Novozymes Acquisition. We may be unable to manage efficiently having become a larger and more geographically diverse organization since the consummation of the Novozymes Acquisition. Since the acquisition of the Novozymes Biopharma Business, we have faced challenges inherent in efficiently managing an increased number of employees over large geographic distances, including the need to implement appropriate systems, policies, benefits and compliance programs. Our inability to manage successfully the geographically more diverse (including from a cultural perspective) and substantially larger 11 Table of Contents combined organization could materially adversely affect our operating results and, as a result, the market price of our common stock. The environmental risks of our business have increased dramatically since the Novozymes Acquisition. Our manufacturing business involves the controlled use of hazardous materials and chemicals and is therefore subject to numerous environmental and safety laws and regulations and to periodic inspections for possible violations of these laws and regulations. In addition to these hazardous materials and chemicals, our facility in Sweden, also uses Staphylococcus aureus and toxins produced by Staphylococcus aureus in some of its manufacturing processes. Staphylococcus aureus and the toxins it produces, particularly enterotoxins, can cause severe illness in humans. The costs of compliance with environmental and safety laws and regulations are significant and have increased since we completed the acquisition of the Novozymes Biopharma Business. Any violations, even if inadvertent or accidental, of current or future environmental, safety laws or regulations and the cost of compliance with any resulting order or fine could adversely affect our operations. Our acquisitions expose us to risks that could adversely affect our business, and we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of acquisitions of businesses or technologies. In addition to the Novozymes Acquisition and as a part of our growth strategy, we may make selected acquisitions of complementary products and/or businesses. Any acquisition involves numerous risks and operational, financial, and managerial challenges, including the following, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations: • difficulties in integrating new operations, technologies, products, and personnel; • lack of synergies or the inability to realize expected synergies and cost-savings; • difficulties in managing geographically dispersed operations; • underperformance of any acquired technology, product, or business relative to our expectations and the price we paid; • negative near-term impacts on financial results after an acquisition, including acquisition-related earnings charges; • the potential loss of key employees, customers, and strategic partners of acquired companies; • claims by terminated employees and shareholders of acquired companies or other third parties related to the transaction; • the issuance of dilutive securities, assumption or incurrence of additional debt obligations or expenses, or use of substantial portions of our cash; • any collaboration, strategic alliance and licensing arrangement may require us to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies or product candidates, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us; • diversion of management’s attention and company resources from existing operations of the business; • inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, and policies; • the impairment of intangible assets as a result of technological advancements, or worse-than-expected performance of acquired companies; and • assumption of, or exposure to, unknown contingent liabilities or liabilities that are difficult to identify or accurately quantify. In addition, the successful integration of acquired businesses requires significant efforts and expense across all operational areas, including sales and marketing, research and development, manufacturing, finance, legal, 12 Table of Contents and information technologies. There can be no assurance that any of the acquisitions we may make will be successful or will be, or will remain, profitable. Our failure to successfully address the foregoing risks may prevent us from achieving the anticipated benefits from any acquisition in a reasonable time frame, or at all. We face competition from numerous competitors, most of whom have far greater resources than we have, which may make it more difficult for us to achieve significant market penetration. The bioprocessing market is intensely competitive, subject to rapid change and significantly affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants. Many of our competitors are large, well-capitalized companies with significantly more market share and resources than we have. As a consequence, they are able to spend more aggressively on product development, marketing, sales and other product initiatives than we can. Many of these competitors have: • significantly greater name recognition; • larger and more established distribution networks; • additional lines of products and the ability to bundle products to offer higher discounts or other incentives to gain a competitive advantage; • greater experience in conducting research and development, manufacturing, clinical trials, marketing, obtaining regulatory approval and entering into collaboration or other strategic partnership arrangements; and • greater financial and human resources for product development, sales and marketing and patent litigation. Our current competitors or other companies may at any time develop additional products that compete with our products. If an existing or future competitor develops products that compete with or are superior to our products, our revenue may decline. In addition, some of our competitors may compete by lowering the price of their products. If prices were to fall, we may not be able to improve our gross margins or sales growth sufficiently to maintain and grow our profitability. We depend on, and expect to continue to depend on, a limited number of customers for a high percentage of our revenues. As a result, the loss of, or a significant reduction in orders from, any of these customers would significantly reduce our revenues and harm our results of operations. If a large customer purchases fewer of our products, defers orders or fails to place additional orders with us, our revenue could decline, and our operating results may not meet market expectations. In addition, if those customers order our products, but fail to pay on time or at all, our liquidity and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. As we evolve from a company involved in research and development to a company with a strategic focus on our bioprocessing business, we may encounter difficulties in expanding our operations successfully. In connection with the Company’s decision to focus our efforts on the growth of our core bioprocessing business, we will continue to seek development and commercialization partnerships for our remaining portfolio of therapeutic and diagnostic assets. Our future financial performance will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully negotiate and consummate these partnerships. We may not be able to accomplish these tasks, and our failure to accomplish any of them could prevent us from monetizing our clinical stage assets, including RG1068 and RG2833. There is also no guarantee that we will successfully expand our bioprocessing business as a result of this change in strategic focus and the Company’s financial performance will likely suffer if we are unable to do so. 13 Table of Contents Our royalty agreement with Bristol-Myers Squibb on sales of Orencia expires on December 31, 2013. Our royalty agreement with Bristol provides for us to receive payments from Bristol based on their net sales of their Orencia® product in the United States through December 31, 2013. As a result, we will no longer receive royalty payments under this agreement after December 31, 2013. If we are unable to replace these royalty payments with an alternative source of revenue and related income, our operating results will decline and, as a result, we may experience a decline in the price of our common stock. In addition, we have no control over Bristol’s sales and marketing practices for Orencia®, and Bristol has no obligation to use commercially reasonable efforts to sell Orencia®. Bristol’s sales could be significantly impacted by regulatory and market influences beyond our control, resulting in low or even no royalty revenue for us. We have limited sales and marketing capabilities. We have a small sales force and, historically, we have generated most of our revenues through sales of bioprocessing products to a limited number of life sciences companies, such as GE Healthcare, EMD Millipore, Sigma-Aldrich, Life Technologies and through other individual distributors. However, we expect a significant amount of our future revenue growth to come from bioprocessing products that we sell directly to end-users such as biopharmaceutical companies and contract manufacturing organizations. This may require us to invest additional resources in our sales and marketing capabilities. We may not be able to attract and retain additional sales and marketing professionals, and the cost of building the sales and marketing function may not generate our anticipated revenue growth. In addition, our sales and marketing efforts may be unsuccessful. Our failure to manage these risks may have a negative impact on our financial condition, or results of operations and may cause our stock price to decline. If we are unable to obtain, maintain our intellectual property, we may not be able to succeed commercially. We endeavor to obtain and maintain patent and trade secret protection for our products and processes when available in order to protect them from unauthorized use and to produce a financial return consistent with the significant time and expense required to bring our products to market. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to: • obtain and maintain patent protection for our products and manufacturing processes; • preserve our trade secrets; • operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties; and • secure any necessary licenses from others on acceptable terms. We cannot be sure that any patent applications relating to our products that we will file in the future or that any currently pending applications will issue on a timely basis, if ever. Since patent applications in the United States filed prior to November 2000 are maintained in secrecy until patents issue and since publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lag behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that we were the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications or that we were the first to file patent applications for such inventions. Even if patents are issued, the degree of protection afforded by such patents will depend upon the: • scope of the patent claims; • validity and enforceability of the claims obtained in such patents; and • our willingness and financial ability to enforce and/or defend them. The patent position of life sciences companies is often highly uncertain and usually involves complex legal and scientific questions. Patents which may be granted to us in certain foreign countries may be subject to 14 Table of Contents opposition proceedings brought by third parties or result in suits by us, which may be costly and result in adverse consequences for us. In some cases, litigation or other proceedings may be necessary to assert claims of infringement, to enforce patents issued to us or our licensors, to protect trade secrets, know-how or other intellectual property rights we own or to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of third parties. Such litigation could result in substantial cost to us and diversion of our resources. An adverse outcome in any such litigation or proceeding could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our competitors prepare and file patent applications in the United States that claim technology also claimed by us, we may be required to participate in interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention, which would result in substantial costs to us. Since some of our U.S. patents covering recombinant Protein A have expired, we may face increased competition, which could harm our results of operations, financial condition, cash flow and future prospects. Other companies could begin manufacturing and selling recombinant Protein A in the U.S. and may directly compete with us on certain Protein A products. This may induce us to sell Protein A at lower prices and may erode our market share which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, cash flow and future prospects. Our freedom to develop our products may be challenged by others, and we may have to engage in litigation to determine the scope and validity of competitors’ patents and proprietary rights, which, if we do not prevail, could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flow and future prospects. There has been substantial litigation and other proceedings regarding the complex patent and other intellectual property rights in the life sciences industry. We have been a party to, and in the future may become a party to, patent litigation or other proceedings regarding intellectual property rights. Other types of situations in which we may become involved in patent litigation or other intellectual property proceedings include: • We may initiate litigation or other proceedings against third parties to seek to invalidate the patents held by such third parties or to obtain a judgment that our products or services do not infringe such third parties’ patents. • We may initiate litigation or other proceedings against third parties to seek to enforce our patents against infringement. • If our competitors file patent applications that claim technology also claimed by us, we may participate in interference or opposition proceedings to determine the priority of invention. • If third parties initiate litigation claiming that our processes or products infringe their patent or other intellectual property rights, we will need to defend against such claims. The cost to us of any patent litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the cost of such litigation or proceedings more effectively than we can because of their substantially greater financial resources. If a patent litigation or other intellectual property proceeding is resolved in a way that is unfavorable to us, we or our collaborative or strategic partners may be enjoined from manufacturing or selling our products and services without a license from the other party and be held liable for significant damages. The failure to obtain any required license on commercially acceptable terms or at all may harm our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flow and future prospects. 15 Table of Contents Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. Patent litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time, attention and resources. We may become involved in litigation or other proceedings with collaborative partners, which may be time consuming, costly and could result in delays in our development and commercialization efforts. In connection with the Company’s decision to focus its efforts on the growth of its core bioprocessing business, we will seek development and commercialization partnerships for our remaining portfolio of clinical stage assets. Any disputes with such partners that lead to litigation or similar proceedings may result in us incurring legal expenses, as well as facing potential legal liability. Such disputes, litigation or other proceedings are also time consuming and may cause delays in our development and commercialization efforts. If we fail to resolve these disputes quickly and with terms that are no less favorable to us than the current terms of the arrangements, our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flow and future prospects may be harmed. If we are unable to continue to hire and retain skilled personnel, then we will have trouble developing and marketing our products. Our success depends largely upon the continued service of our management and scientific staff and our ability to attract retain and motivate highly skilled technical, scientific, management and marketing personnel. We also face significant competition in the hiring and retention of such personnel from other companies, research and academic institutions, government and other organizations who have superior funding and resources. The loss of key personnel or our inability to hire and retain skilled personnel could materially adversely affect our product development efforts and our business. The market may not be receptive to our new bioprocessing products upon their introduction. We expect a portion of our future revenue growth to come from introducing new bioprocessing products, such as a larger size version of our OPUS disposable chromatography products which we began selling in 2012. The commercial success of these new products as well as the products acquired in the Novozymes Acquisition will depend upon their acceptance by the life science and biopharmaceutical industries. Many of the bioprocessing products that we are developing are based upon new technologies or approaches. As a result, there can be no assurance that these new products, even if successfully developed and introduced, will be accepted by customers. If customers do not adopt our new products and technologies, our results of operations may suffer and, as a result, the market price of our common stock may decline. If our products do not perform as expected or the reliability of the technology on which our products are based is questioned, we could experience lost revenue, delayed or reduced market acceptance of our products, increased costs and damage to our reputation. Our success depends on the market’s confidence that we can provide reliable, high-quality bioprocessing products. We believe that customers in our target markets are likely to be particularly sensitive to product defects and errors. Our reputation and the public image of our products and technologies may be impaired if our products fail to perform as expected. Although our products are tested prior to shipment, defects or errors could nonetheless occur in our products. Furthermore, the Protein A that we manufacture is subsequently incorporated into products that are sold by other life sciences companies and we have no control over the manufacture and production of those products. In the future, if our products experience, or are perceived to experience, a material defect or error, this could result in loss or delay of revenues, delayed market acceptance, damaged reputation, diversion of development resources, legal claims, increased insurance costs or increased service and warranty costs, any of which could 16 Table of Contents harm our business. Such defects or errors could also narrow the scope of the use of our products, which could hinder our success in the market. Even after any underlying concerns or problems are resolved, any lingering concerns in our target market regarding our technology or any manufacturing defects or performance errors in our products could continue to result in lost revenue, delayed market acceptance, damaged reputation, increased service and warranty costs and claims against us. If we are unable to manufacture our products in sufficient quantities and in a timely manner, our operating results will be harmed, our ability to generate revenue could be diminished and our gross margin may be negatively impacted. Our revenues and other operating results will depend in large part on our ability to manufacture and assemble our products in sufficient quantities and in a timely manner. Any interruptions we experience in the manufacturing or shipping of our products could delay our ability to recognize revenues in a particular quarter. Manufacturing problems can and do arise, and as demand for our products increases, any such problems could have an increasingly significant impact on our operating results. While we have not generally experienced problems with or delays in our production capabilities that resulted in delays in our ability to ship finished products, there can be no assurance that we will not encounter such problems in the future. We may not be able to quickly ship products and recognize anticipated revenues for a given period if we experience significant delays in the manufacturing process. In addition, we must maintain sufficient production capacity in order to meet anticipated customer demand, which carries fixed costs that we may not be able to offset if orders slow, which would adversely affect our operating margins. If we are unable to manufacture our products consistently, in sufficient quantities, and on a timely basis, our bioprocessing revenue, gross margins and our other operating results will be materially and adversely affected. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly, our customers’ future purchases are difficult to predict and any failure to meet financial expectations may result in a decline in our stock price. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate in the future as a result of many factors such as the impact of seasonal spending patterns, changes in overall spending levels in the life sciences industry, the inability of some of our customers to consummate anticipated purchases of our products due to changes in end-user demand, and other unpredictable factors that may affect ordering patterns. Because our revenue and operating results are difficult to predict, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not a good indicator of our future performance. Additionally, if revenue declines in a quarter, whether due to a delay in recognizing expected revenue, adverse economic conditions or otherwise our results of operations will be harmed because many of our expenses are relatively fixed. In particular, a large portion of our manufacturing costs, our research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses are not significantly affected by variations in revenue. If our quarterly operating results fail to meet investor expectations, the price of our common stock may decline. We may be unsuccessful in negotiating and consummating development and commercialization partnerships for our remaining portfolio of therapeutic and diagnostic assets on acceptable terms, if at all. Our decision to focus on the growth of the Company’s core bioprocessing business will result in the Company seeking development or commercialization partners for our remaining portfolio of therapeutic and diagnostic assets. The consummation and performance of any such future development and commercialization transactions will involve risks, such as: • diversion of managerial resources from day-to-day operations; • exposure to litigation from the counterparties to any such transaction or other third parties; • misjudgment with respect to value; • higher than expected transaction costs; or • an inability to successfully consummate any such transaction or collaboration. 17 Table of Contents Our future revenues pursuant to our license agreement with Pfizer regarding the SMA program depends significantly on Pfizer’s development and commercialization activities, over which we have little control. If Pfizer is unable or determines not to further develop or commercialize the SMA program, or experiences significant delays in doing so, we may see a delay in receiving any potential milestone or royalty payments or fail to receive any additional financial benefits from the program. We entered into a license agreement with Pfizer on December 28, 2012, related to the SMA program, which is led by RG3039 and also includes backup compounds and enabling technologies. We are dependent on Pfizer for the future success of this development program. Other than assisting in the completion of the first two cohorts of an active Phase 1 trial evaluating RG3039 in healthy volunteers, we will have no future control over the conduct and timing of development efforts with respect to the SMA program. Although we have had discussions with Pfizer regarding their current plans and intentions for the development of the SMA program, they may revise their plan in their sole discretion. Pfizer’s failure to devote sufficient financial and other resources to the development plan may result in the delayed or unsuccessful development of the program, which could lead to the non-payment or delay in payment of milestones under the license agreement and may preclude or delay commercialization of any product under the SMA program and any royalties we could receive on future commercial sales. Because the license we granted to Pfizer is exclusive, our future financial results may be harmed if Pfizer does not commercialize the SMA program successfully or on a timely basis or if Pfizer elects to terminate the license agreement prior to the achievement of any milestones or the payment of any royalties to us. Healthcare reform measures could adversely affect our business. The efforts of governmental and third-party payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care may adversely affect the business and financial condition of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including us. Specifically, in both the United States and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the health care system in ways that could affect our ability to sell our products profitably. The U.S. Congress passed the America Affordable Health Choices Act of 2009 and is considering a number of proposals that are intended to reduce or limit the growth of health care costs and which could significantly transform the market for pharmaceuticals products. We expect further federal and state proposals and health care reforms to continue to be proposed by legislators, which could limit the prices that can be charged for the products we develop and may limit our commercial opportunity. In the United States, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, also called the Medicare Modernization Act (the “MMA”) changed the way Medicare covers and pays for pharmaceutical products. These cost reduction initiatives and other provisions of this legislation could decrease the coverage and price that we receive for any approved products and could seriously harm our business. While the MMA applies only to drug benefits for Medicare beneficiaries, private payors often follow Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement rates, and any reduction in reimbursement that results from the MMA may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors. The continuing efforts of government and other third-party payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care through various means may limit our commercial opportunities. In addition, the pendency or approval of such proposals could result in a decrease in the price of Repligen’s common stock or limit our ability to raise capital or to enter into collaborations or license rights to our products. We compete with life science, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies who are capable of developing new approaches that could make our products and technology obsolete. The market for therapeutic and commercial products is intensely competitive, rapidly evolving and subject to rapid technological change. Life science, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies may have substantially greater financial, manufacturing, marketing, and research and development resources than we have. New approaches by these competitors may make our products and technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. 18 Table of Contents We may be exposed to liabilities under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and any determination that we violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practice Act (the “FCPA”) and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by U.S. persons and issuers as defined by the statute for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have operations, agreements with third parties and make sales in jurisdictions outside of the U.S., which may experience corruption. Our activities in jurisdictions outside of the U.S. create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors, because these parties are not always subject to our control. These risks have increased following the Novozymes Acquisition. It is our policy to implement safeguards to discourage these practices by our employees. However, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective, and the employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors of our Company may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, the government may seek to hold us liable for successor liability FCPA violations committed by any companies in which we invest or that we acquire. Our stock price could be volatile, which could cause shareholders to lose part or all of their investment. The market price of our common stock, like that of the common stock of many other companies with similar market capitalizations, is highly volatile. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many life sciences, biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies for reasons frequently unrelated to or disproportionate to the operating performance of the specific companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our growth potential is changing as we evolve from an organization that was heavily involved in research and development to an organization with a strategic focus on our bioprocessing business. In connection with the Company’s decision to focus its efforts on the growth of its core bioprocessing business, the Company expects that its therapeutic product development activities will be significantly reduced. The core bioprocessing business on which the Company will focus will provide growth opportunities that are different than those of a research and development oriented biotechnology company. As a result, the price of the Company’s common stock may behave differently than it has historically and, during the shift in our business, may behave in a manner not expected by securities analysts and investors. If the Company’s future business focused on bioprocessing generates results that fall below the revised expectations of securities analysts and investors, the trading price of the Company’s common stock could decline. As a result of these risks, we may not be able to achieve the expected benefits of any such transaction or deliver the value thereof to our shareholders. If we are unsuccessful in consummating any such transaction, we may be required to reevaluate our business only after we have incurred substantial expenses and devoted significant management time and resources. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, even one that may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may delay or prevent an acquisition of us or a change in our management. These provisions include the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which limits the ability of stockholders 19 Table of Contents owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock to merge or combine with us. Although we believe these provisions collectively provide for an opportunity to obtain greater value for stockholders by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, they would apply even if an offer rejected by our board were considered beneficial by some stockholders. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. Changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters could significantly affect our financial results or financial condition. Generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines, and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our business, such as revenue recognition, asset impairment and fair value determinations, inventories, business combinations and intangible asset valuations, and litigation, are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgments. Changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates, or judgments could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance or financial condition. The Company’s results of operations could be negatively affected by potential fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The Company conducts a large portion of its business in international markets. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012, 28% of the Company’s revenue and 39% of its costs and expenses were denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the Swedish Kroner. Therefore, the Company is exposed to the risk of an increase or decrease in the value of the foreign currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar, which would increase the value of our expenses and decrease the value of our revenue when measured in U.S. Dollars. As a result, our results of operation may be influenced by the effects of future exchange rate fluctuations and such effects may have an adverse impact on our common stock price. Our ability to use net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards and certain built-in losses to reduce future tax payments is limited by provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, and it is possible that certain transactions or a combination of certain transactions may result in material additional limitations on our ability to use our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Section 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, contain rules that limit the ability of a company that undergoes an ownership change, which is generally any change in ownership of more than 50% of its stock over a three-year period, to utilize its net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards and certain built-in losses recognized in years after the ownership change. These rules generally operate by focusing on ownership changes involving stockholders owning directly or indirectly 5% or more of the stock of a company and any change in ownership arising from a new issuance of stock by the company. Generally, if an ownership change occurs, the yearly taxable income limitation on the use of net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards and certain built-in losses is equal to the product of the applicable long term tax exempt rate and the value of the company’s stock immediately before the ownership change. We may be unable to offset our taxable income with losses, or our tax liability with credits, before such losses and credits expire and therefore would incur larger federal income tax liability. We have completed a number of financings since our inception which may have resulted in a change in control as defined by Section 382, or could result in a change in control in the future. If we identify a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, our ability to meet our reporting obligations and the trading price of our stock could be negatively affected. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim 20 Table of Contents financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Accordingly, a material weakness increases the risk that the financial information we report contains material errors. We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies. In addition, we are required under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 to report annually on our internal control over financial reporting. Any system of internal controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. For example, in 2012 we updated our internal controls to include our operations in Sweden. If we, or our independent registered public accounting firm, determine that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective, or we discover areas that need improvement in the future, these shortcomings could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results, and the price of our common stock could be negatively affected. If we cannot conclude that we have effective internal control over our financial reporting, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide an unqualified opinion regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could lead to a decline in our stock price. Failure to comply with reporting requirements could also subject us to sanctions and/or investigations by the SEC, The NASDAQ Stock Market or other regulatory authorities. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 