ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors should be considered carefully in addition to the other information contained in this filing. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face and represent some of the risks that our management believes are material to our Company and our business. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. Risks Relating to Our Investigation We have been subject to an SEC review regarding the facts and circumstances giving rise to the restatement of our previously issued financial statements and related matters. As previously announced, in connection with an internal review of our Dutchmen Manufacturing, Inc. operating subsidiary in fiscal 2007, we promptly and voluntarily informed the SEC of the Audit Committee’s independent investigation, and have from time to time responded to SEC staff requests for additional information in connection with the staff’s investigation. We have cooperated fully with the SEC. The investigation by the SEC staff could result in the SEC seeking various penalties and relief, including, without limitation, civil injunctive relief and/or civil monetary penalties or administrative relief. The nature of the relief or remedies the SEC may seek, if any, cannot be predicted at this time. Risks Relating To Our Business The recreation vehicle and small and mid-size bus industries are highly competitive. The recreation vehicle and bus industries that we are currently engaged in are highly competitive and we have numerous existing and potential competitors. Competition in these industries is based upon price, design, value, quality and service. Competitive pressures, especially in the recreation vehicle market for travel trailers and motorhomes, have, from time to time, resulted in a reduction of our profit margins. Recently, aggressive discounting by our competitors has negatively impacted our sales and profitability. Sustained increases in these competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. There can be no assurance that existing or new competitors will not develop products that are superior to our recreation vehicles or small or mid-size buses or that achieve better consumer acceptance, thereby adversely affecting our market share, sales volume and profit margins. Our businesses are cyclical and this can lead to fluctuations in our operating results. The industries in which we operate are cyclical and there can be substantial fluctuations in our manufacturing, shipments and operating results. Consequently, the results for any prior period may not be indicative of results for any future period. Our business may be affected by certain external factors beyond our control. Companies within the recreation vehicle and bus industries are subject to volatility in operating results due to external factors such as general economic conditions, including credit availability, consumer confidence, employment rates, prevailing interest rates, inflation, other economic conditions affecting consumer attitudes and disposable consumer income generally, demographic changes and political changes. Specific factors affecting the recreation vehicle and bus industries include: • overall consumer confidence and the level of discretionary consumer spending; • inventory levels, including the level of retail sales by our dealers; 8 Table of Contents • general economic conditions; • demographics, such as the retirement of “baby boomers”; • interest rates and the availability of credit; • employment trends; • the amount of backlog, which may be a predictor of near-term future revenues; • fuel availability and prices; • public policy on mass transit; • the adverse impact of terrorism on consumer spending and travel related activities; and • increases in raw material costs. Recently, industry conditions in the recreation vehicle market have been adversely affected by low consumer confidence and tighter lending practices. As a result of these ongoing concerns, market conditions continue to be soft and we anticipate this weakness to continue in fiscal 2010. The motorized market has been significantly impacted by current market conditions. The current economic climate and the tightening of the retail credit markets are placing pressure on retail sales and our dealers continue to be cautious in the amount of inventory they are willing to carry. Based on the foregoing, we recognized a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $9,717 in the third quarter of fiscal year 2009 for the goodwill associated with an operating subsidiary in the motorized reportable segment. The Company also completed an impairment review in the second quarter of fiscal 2009 which resulted in a non-cash trademark impairment charge of $564 for the trademark associated with an operating subsidiary in the motorized reportable segment. Our towables market has also softened. The decline in wholesale demand has directly impacted our gross margins. The loss of one or more of our significant dealers could have a significant effect on our business. Two dealers accounted for an aggregate of 29% of our bus sales for fiscal year 2009. The loss of either dealer could have a significant effect on our bus business. One dealer, FreedomRoads, LLC, accounted for 15% of our Company’s consolidated recreation vehicle net sales and 11% of our Company’s consolidated net sales among FreedomRoads, LLC’s 47 dealership locations in 26 U.S. states. The loss of this dealer could have a significant effect on our recreation vehicle business. In addition, deterioration in the liquidity or credit worthiness of FreedomRoads, LLC could negatively impact our sales and accounts receivable and could trigger repurchase obligations under our repurchase agreements. Certain of our notes may have collectibility risk. In January 2009 we entered into two credit agreements with Stephen Adams, in his individual capacity, and Stephen Adams and his successors, as trustee under the Stephen Adams Living Trust (the “Trust”) and together with each of the foregoing persons, the (“Borrowers”), pursuant to which we made two $10,000 loans to the Borrowers. The first loan is payable in full on January 15, 2014 and the second loan is payable in full on January 29, 2010. The Borrowers own approximately 90% of FreedomRoads Holding Company, LLC (“FreedomRoads Holding”) the parent company of FreedomRoads, LLC, one of our largest dealers. The loans are guaranteed by FreedomRoads Holding and are secured by a first priority security interest in all of the direct and indirect legal, equitable and beneficial interests of the Borrowers in FreedomRoads Holding. While we believe that the notes receivable from the Borrowers are collectible, deterioration in the liquidity or credit worthiness of the Borrowers or FreedomRoads Holding could impact the collectibility of the notes receivable. A significant portion of our sales of small and mid-size buses are derived from state and local transportation authorities. Approximately 73% of our bus sales for fiscal year 2009 were derived from contracts with state and local transportation authorities, in most cases with partial funding from federal agencies. There can be no assurance that these authorities will not reduce their expenditures for our buses in the future as a result of budgetary constraints, decreased tax revenues or otherwise. A reduction in the purchase of our buses by these authorities could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 9 Table of Contents Fuel shortages, or high prices for fuel, could have a negative effect on sales of our recreation vehicles and buses. Gasoline or diesel fuel is required for the operation of recreation vehicles and most buses. There can be no assurance that the supply of these petroleum products will continue uninterrupted, that rationing will not be imposed or that the price of or tax on these petroleum products will not significantly increase in the future. Shortages of gasoline and diesel and substantial increases in the price of fuel have had a material adverse effect on the recreation vehicle industry as a whole in the past and could have a material adverse effect on our business in the future. Our recreation vehicle business is seasonal, and this leads to fluctuations in sales, production and net income. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, significant variability in sales, production and net income as a result of seasonality in our businesses. Demand in the recreation vehicle industry generally declines during the winter season, while sales and profits are generally highest during the spring and summer months. In addition, unusually severe weather conditions in some markets may delay the timing of shipments from one quarter to another. Our business is affected by the availability and terms of financing to dealers and retail purchasers. Our business is affected by the availability and terms of financing to dealers and retail purchasers. Generally, recreation vehicle dealers finance their purchases of inventory with financing provided by lending institutions. The decrease in the availability of this type of wholesale financing has prevented many dealers from carrying adequate levels of inventory, which limits product offerings and leads to reduced demand. In addition, two of our financial flooring institutions held 86% of the total floored dollars outstanding held by major institutions at July 31, 2009, reflecting the reduction in available lending sources. Substantial increases in interest rates and decreases in the general availability of credit have also had an adverse impact upon our business and results of operations in the past and may continue to do so in the future. In particular, the current credit availability crisis may have a significant impact on our business. Changes in consumer preferences for our products or our failure to gauge those preferences could lead to reduced sales and additional costs. We cannot be certain that historical consumer preferences for our products in general, and recreation vehicles in particular, will remain unchanged. We believe that the introduction of new features, designs and models will be critical to the future success of our recreation vehicle operations. Delays in the introduction of new models, designs or product features, or a lack of market acceptance of new models, designs or product features, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Products may not be accepted for a number of reasons, including changes in consumer preferences or our failure to properly gauge consumer preferences. Further, we cannot be certain that new product introductions will not reduce revenues from existing models and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, there can be no assurance that any of these new models or products will be introduced to the market on time or that they will be successful when introduced. If the frequency and size of product liability and other claims against us rises, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be harmed. We are subject, in the ordinary course of business, to litigation involving product liability and other claims against us, including wrongful death, personal injury and warranties. We partially self-insure our product liability claims and also purchase product liability insurance in the commercial insurance market. We cannot be certain that our insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover all future claims against us. Any increase in the frequency and size of these claims, as compared to our experience in prior years, may cause the premium that we are required to pay for insurance to rise significantly. It may also increase the amounts we pay in punitive damages, not all of which are covered by our insurance. We have been named in approximately 300 complaints, some of which were originally styled as putative class actions (with respect to which class certification was ultimately denied) and some of which were filed by individual plaintiffs, filed against manufacturers of travel trailers and manufactured homes supplied to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (“FEMA”) for use as emergency living accommodations in the wake of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. The complaints have been transferred to the Eastern District of Louisiana by the federal panel on multidistrict litigation for consideration in a matter captioned in re FEMA Trailer Formaldehyde Products Liability Litigation, Case Number MDL 07-1873, United States District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana. The complaints generally assert claims for damages (for health related problems, medical expenses, emotional distress and lost earnings) and for medical monitoring costs due to the presence of formaldehyde in the units. Some of the lawsuits also seek punitive and/or exemplary damages. Thus far, however, none of the lawsuits allege a specific amount of damages sought and instead make general allegations about the nature of the plaintiffs’ claims without placing a dollar figure on them. Although we strongly dispute the allegations in these complaints, and intend to vigorously defend ourself in all such matters, we may be liable for damages if we receive an unfavorable outcome. 10 Table of Contents When we introduce new products into the marketplace we may incur expenses that we did not anticipate, which, in turn, can result in reduced earnings. The introduction of new models of recreation vehicles and buses is critical to our future success. We may incur unexpected expenses, however, when we introduce new models of recreation vehicles and buses. For example, we may experience unexpected engineering or design flaws that will force a recall of a new product. The costs resulting from these types of problems could be substantial, and could have a significant adverse effect on our earnings. Our repurchase agreements with floor plan lenders could result in increased costs. In accordance with customary practice in the recreation vehicle industry, upon the request of a lending institution financing a dealer’s purchase of our products, we will execute a repurchase agreement with the lending institution. Repurchase agreements provide that, for up to 18 months after a recreation vehicle is financed and in the event of default by the dealer, we will repurchase the recreation vehicle repossessed by the lending institution for the amount then due, which is usually less than 100% of the dealer’s cost. The difference between the gross repurchase price and the price at which the repurchased product can then be resold, which is typically at a discount to the original sale price, is an expense to us. Thus, if we were obligated to repurchase a substantially greater number of recreation vehicles in the future, this would increase our costs. In difficult economic times this amount could become material. For some of our components, we depend on a small group of suppliers, and the loss of any of these suppliers could affect our ability to obtain components at competitive prices, which would decrease our margins. Most recreation vehicle and bus components are readily available from a variety of sources. However, a few components are produced by only a small group of quality suppliers that have the capacity to supply large quantities on a national basis. Primarily, this occurs in the case of chassis for our motorhomes and buses, where Ford Motor Company and General Motors are the dominant suppliers. The recreation vehicle industry as a whole has from time to time experienced shortages of chassis due to the concentration or allocation of available resources by suppliers of chassis to the manufacturers of vehicles other than recreation vehicles or for other causes. Historically, in the event of an industry-wide restriction of supply, Ford Motor Company and General Motors have allocated chassis among us and our competitors based on the volume of chassis previously purchased. If Ford Motor Company or General Motors were to discontinue the manufacturing of motorhome or bus chassis, or if as a group all of our chassis suppliers significantly reduced the availability of chassis to the industry, our business could be adversely affected. Similarly, shortages at, or production delays or work stoppages by the employees of Ford Motor Company, General Motors or other chassis suppliers, could have a material adverse effect on our sales. Finally, as is standard in the industry, arrangements with chassis suppliers are terminable at any time by either our Company or the chassis supplier. If we cannot obtain an adequate chassis supply, this could result in a decrease in our sales and earnings. We do not expect the current condition of the U.S. auto industry , including the recent bankruptcy filings and reorganizations of General Motors and Chrysler, to have a significant impact on our supply of chassis. Supply of chassis is adequate for now and we believe that on-hand inventory would compensate for changes in supply schedules if they occur. To date, we have not noticed any unusual cost increases from our chassis suppliers. If the condition of the U.S. auto industry significantly worsens, this could result in supply interruptions and a decrease in our sales and earnings while we obtain replacement chassis from other sources. Our business is subject to numerous federal, state and local regulations. We are subject to numerous federal, state and local regulations governing the manufacture and sale of our products, including the provisions of the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act, or NTMVSA, and the safety standards for recreation vehicles and components which have been promulgated under the NTMVSA by the Department of Transportation. The NTMVSA authorizes the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration to require a manufacturer to recall and repair vehicles which contain certain hazards or defects. Any recalls of our vehicles, voluntary or involuntary, could have a material adverse effect on our Company. We are also subject to federal and numerous state consumer protection and unfair trade practice laws and regulations relating to the sale, transportation and marketing of motor vehicles, including so-called “Lemon Laws”. Federal and state laws and regulations also impose upon vehicle operators various restrictions on the weight, length and width of motor vehicles, including buses and motorhomes, that may be operated in certain jurisdictions or on certain roadways. Certain jurisdictions also prohibit the sale of vehicles exceeding length restrictions. Finally, federal and state authorities also have various environmental control standards relating to air, water, noise pollution and hazardous waste generation and disposal which affect our business and operations. Failure to comply with any of the foregoing laws or regulations could have an adverse impact on our business. 11 Table of Contents Risks Relating To Our Company Provisions in our charter documents and of Delaware law may make it difficult for a third party to acquire our Company and could depress the price of our common stock. Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation contains certain supermajority voting provisions that could delay, defer or prevent a change in control of our Company. These provisions could also make it more difficult for shareholders to elect directors, amend our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and take other corporate actions. We are also subject to certain provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law that could delay, deter or prevent us from entering into an acquisition, including provisions which prohibit a Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested shareholder unless specific conditions are met. The existence of these provisions could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock and may deprive investors of an opportunity to sell shares at a premium over prevailing prices. We will continue to be effectively controlled by one of our shareholders. Wade F. B. Thompson, our President and Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of our Board of Directors, owns, directly or indirectly, voting control over an aggregate of 15,753,470 shares of our common stock, representing 28.4% of our issued and outstanding voting stock as of September 15, 2009. As a result, Mr. Thompson will be able to significantly influence most matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of board members and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. Our investments in auction rate securities are subject to risks which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. At July 31, 2009, we held $14,550 (par value) of long-term investments and $107,150 (par value) of short-term investments with an auction reset feature (“ARS”), which are variable-rate debt securities and have a long-term maturity with the interest being reset through Dutch auctions that are typically held every 7, 28 or 35 days. At July 31, 2009, the majority of the ARS we held were AAA rated or equivalent, with most collateralized by student loans substantially backed by the U.S. Federal government. Since February 12, 2008, most auctions have failed for these securities and there is no assurance that future auctions on the ARS in our investment portfolio will succeed and, as a result, our ability to liquidate our investment and fully recover the par value of our investment in the near term may be limited or not exist. In November 2008, the Company elected to participate in a rights offering by UBS AG (“UBS”), a Swiss bank which is one of the Company’s investment providers, that provides the Company with the right to sell to UBS at par value ARS purchased from UBS ($107,150 of our entire ARS portfolio of $121,700 as of July 31, 2009) at any time during a two-year sale period beginning June 30, 2010. We believe we will be able to liquidate our investments without significant loss primarily due to the government guarantee of the underlying securities; however, it could take until the final maturity of the underlying notes (up to 31 years) to realize our investments’ par value. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 12 Table of Contents 