ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors, which relate to our continuing operations, should be considered carefully in addition to the other information contained in this filing. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face and represent some of the risks that our management believes are material to our Company and our business. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. Risks Relating To Our Business The industry in which we operate is highly competitive. The industry that we are engaged in is highly competitive and we have numerous existing and potential competitors. The recreational vehicle industry is generally characterized by ease of entry, although the current codes, standards and safety requirements may be a deterrent to new competitors. The need to develop an effective dealer network and to support wholesale lending through floor plan finance companies also act as barriers to entry. Competition is based upon price, design, value, quality and service. Competitive pressures have, from time to time, resulted in a reduction of our profit margins. Sustained increases in these competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. There can be no assurance that existing or new competitors will not develop products that are superior to ours or that achieve better consumer acceptance, thereby adversely affecting our market share, sales volume and profit margins. The industry in which we operate is centered in northern Indiana. The majority of our operations are located in one region. The geographic centrality of the RV industry in northern Indiana creates certain risks, including: — Competition for workers skilled in the industry, especially during times of increasing RV production, may increase the cost of our labor; and — Employee retention and recruitment challenges, as employees with industry knowledge and experience are attracted to the most lucrative positions and their ability to change employers is relatively easy. Our business is cyclical and this can lead to fluctuations in our operating results. The recreational vehicle industry in which we operate is cyclical and there can be substantial fluctuations in our production levels, shipments and operating results. Consequently, the results for any prior period may not be indicative of results for any future period. Our business is seasonal and this leads to fluctuations in sales, production and net income. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, significant variability in sales, production and net income as a result of annual seasonality in our business. Since recreational vehicles are used primarily by vacationers and campers, demand in the recreational vehicle industry generally declines during the winter season, while sales and profits are generally highest during the spring and summer months. In addition, unusually severe weather conditions in some geographic areas may delay the timing of shipments from one quarter to another. Our business may be affected by certain external factors beyond our control. Companies within the recreational vehicle industry are subject to volatility in operating results due to external factors such as general economic conditions, including credit availability, consumer confidence, employment rates, prevailing interest rates, inflation, other economic conditions affecting consumer attitudes and disposable consumer income, demographic changes and political changes. Specific factors affecting our business include: — Overall consumer confidence and the level of discretionary consumer spending; — Inventory levels, including the level of retail sales by our dealers; — General economic, market and political conditions, including war, terrorism and military conflict; — Demographics, such as the retirement of “baby boomers”; 7 Table of Contents — Interest rates and the availability of credit; — Employment trends; — Global, domestic or regional financial turmoil; — Natural disasters; — Industry demand; — Increases in raw material costs; — Relative or perceived cost, availability and comfort of recreational vehicle use versus other modes of travel, such as air travel, rail, etc.; and — Increases in real wages and disposable income of consumers and their willingness to make large discretionary purchases. The loss of our largest dealer could have a significant effect on our business. FreedomRoads, LLC accounted for 17% of our consolidated net sales for fiscal 2014. The loss of this dealer could have a significant adverse effect on our business. In addition, deterioration in the liquidity or credit worthiness of FreedomRoads, LLC could negatively impact our sales and accounts receivable and could trigger repurchase obligations under our repurchase agreements. Certain of our notes receivable may have collectability risk. In December 2009, we entered into a $10,000 credit agreement with Marcus Lemonis, Stephen Adams, in his individual capacity, and Stephen Adams and his successors, as trustee under the Trust (collectively, the “December 2009 Loan Borrowers”), and later modified in December 2012, pursuant to which $7,400 of original principal is outstanding as of July 31, 2014 with the final payment due on August 30, 2015. The December 2009 Loan Borrowers own, directly or indirectly, a controlling interest in FreedomRoads Holding Company, LLC, the parent company of FreedomRoads, LLC, our largest dealer. While we believe that the current note receivable from the December 2009 Loan Borrowers is collectable, deterioration in the liquidity or credit worthiness of the December 2009 Loan Borrowers could impact the collectability of this note receivable. Fuel shortages, or high prices for fuel, could have a negative effect on sales of our recreational vehicles. Gasoline or diesel fuel is required for the operation of our vehicles. There can be no assurance that the supply of these petroleum products will continue uninterrupted, that rationing will not be imposed or that the price of or tax on these petroleum products will not significantly increase in the future. Shortages of gasoline and diesel fuel, and substantial increases in the price of fuel, have had a material adverse effect on the recreational vehicle industry as a whole in the past and could have a material adverse effect on our business in the future. Our business depends on the performance of independent dealers and transportation carriers. We distribute our products through a system of independent, authorized dealers, many of whom sell products from competing manufacturers. The geographic coverage of our dealers and their individual business conditions can affect the ability of our authorized dealers to sell our products to consumers. In addition, recent consolidation of dealers, as well as the growth of larger, multi-location dealers, may result in increased bargaining power on the part of dealers. Most often, our products are delivered via a system of independent transportation contractors. The network of carriers is limited and, in times of high demand and limited availability, can create risk in, and disruption of, our distribution channel. Our business is affected by the availability and terms of financing to dealers and retail purchasers. Our business is affected by the availability and terms of financing to dealers and retail purchasers. Generally, recreational vehicle dealers finance their purchases of inventory with financing provided by lending institutions. A decrease in the availability of this type of wholesale financing or an increase in the cost of such wholesale financing can prevent dealers from carrying adequate levels of inventory, which limits product offerings and could lead to reduced demand. In addition, two major financial flooring institutions held approximately 85% of our portion of our dealers’ total floored dollars outstanding at July 31, 2014. 8 Table of Contents Substantial increases in interest rates and decreases in the general availability of credit have also had an adverse impact upon our business and results of operations in the past and may do so in the future. Further, a decrease in availability of consumer credit resulting from unfavorable economic conditions, or an increase in the cost of consumer credit, may cause consumers to reduce discretionary spending which could, in turn, reduce demand for our products and negatively affect our sales and profitability. Changes in consumer preferences for our products or our failure to gauge those preferences could lead to reduced sales and additional costs. Our ability to remain competitive depends heavily on our ability to provide a continuing and timely introduction of innovative product offerings. We cannot be certain that historical consumer preferences for our products in general, and recreational vehicles in particular, will remain unchanged. We believe that the introduction of new features, designs and models will be critical to the future success of our recreational vehicle operations. Managing frequent product introductions and transitions poses inherent risks. Delays in the introduction or market acceptance of new models, designs or product features could have a material adverse effect on our business. Products may not be accepted for a number of reasons, including changes in consumer preferences or our failure to properly gauge consumer preferences. Further, we cannot be certain that new product introductions will not reduce revenues from existing models and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, there can be no assurance that any of these new models or products will be introduced to the market on time or that they will be successful when introduced. If the frequency and size of product liability and other claims against us increase, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be harmed. We are subject, in the ordinary course of business, to litigation involving product liability and other claims against us, including wrongful death, personal injury and warranties. We generally self-insure our product liability and other claims and also purchase product liability and other insurance in the commercial insurance market. We cannot be certain that our insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover all future claims against us. We have a self-insured retention (“SIR”) for products liability and personal injury matters ranging from $1,000 to $7,500 depending on the product type and when the occurrence took place. Generally, any occurrence (as defined by our insurance policies) after March 31, 2014 is subject to the $1,000 SIR. Amounts above the SIR, up to a certain dollar amount, are covered by our excess insurance policy. Currently, we maintain excess liability insurance aggregating $50,000 with outside insurance carriers to minimize our risks related to catastrophic claims in excess of our self-insured positions for products liability and personal injury matters. Any material change in the aforementioned factors could have an adverse impact on our operating results. Any increase in the frequency and size of these claims, as compared to our experience in prior years, may cause the premium that we are required to pay for insurance to increase significantly and may negatively impact future SIR levels. It may also increase the amounts we pay in punitive damages, not all of which are covered by our insurance. When we introduce new products into the marketplace, we may incur expenses that we did not anticipate, which, in turn, can result in reduced earnings. The introduction of new models is critical to our future success. We may incur unexpected expenses, however, when we introduce new models. For example, we may experience unexpected engineering or design flaws that will force a recall of a new product or may cause increased warranty costs. The costs resulting from these types of problems could be substantial and could have a significant adverse effect on our earnings. Our repurchase agreements with floor plan lenders could result in increased costs. In accordance with customary practice in the recreational vehicle industry, upon the request of a lending institution financing a dealer’s purchase of our products, we will execute a repurchase agreement with the lending institution. Repurchase agreements provide that, typically for a period of up to 18 months after a recreational vehicle is financed and in the event of default by the dealer, we will repurchase the recreational vehicle repossessed by the lending institution for the amount then due, which is usually less than 100% of the dealer’s cost. In addition to the guarantee under these repurchase agreements, we may also be required to repurchase inventory relative to dealer terminations in certain states in accordance with state laws or regulatory requirements. The difference between the gross repurchase price and the price at which the repurchased product can then be resold, which is typically at a discount to the original sale price, is an expense to us. Thus, if we were obligated to repurchase a substantially greater number of recreational vehicles, or incurred substantially greater discounting to resell these units in the future, this would increase our costs. In difficult economic times this amount could increase significantly compared to recent years. For some of our components, we depend on a small group of suppliers and the loss of any of these suppliers could affect our ability to obtain components at competitive prices which would decrease our margins. We depend on timely and sufficient delivery of components from our suppliers. Most components are readily available from a variety of sources. However, a few components are currently produced by only a small group of quality suppliers that have the capacity to supply large quantities on a national basis. 9 Table of Contents Primarily, this occurs in the case of 1) motorized chassis, where Ford Motor Company and General Motors are dominant suppliers, and 2) windows and doors, towable chassis and slide-out mechanisms, axles and upholstered furniture for our recreational vehicles, where Drew is a major supplier for these items within the RV industry. The recreational vehicle industry as a whole has, from time to time, experienced shortages of chassis due to the concentration or allocation of available resources by suppliers of chassis to the manufacturers of vehicles other than recreational vehicles or for other causes. Historically, in the event of an industry-wide restriction of supply, Ford Motor Company and General Motors have allocated chassis among us and our competitors based on the volume of chassis previously purchased. If Ford Motor Company or General Motors were to discontinue the manufacturing of motorhome chassis, or if, as a group, all of our chassis suppliers significantly reduced the availability of chassis to the industry, our business could be adversely affected. Similarly, shortages at, or production delays or work stoppages by the employees of Ford Motor Company, General Motors or other chassis suppliers, could have a material adverse effect on our sales. If the condition of the U.S. auto industry were to significantly deteriorate, this could also result in supply interruptions and a decrease in our sales and earnings while we obtain replacement chassis from other sources. Drew is a major supplier of a number of key components of our recreational vehicles such as windows and doors, towable chassis and slide-out mechanisms, axles and upholstered furniture. We have not experienced any significant shortages or delays in delivery related to these items; however, if industry demand were to increase faster than Drew can respond, or other factors impact their ability to continue to supply our needs for these key components, our business could be adversely affected. Finally, as is standard in the industry, arrangements with chassis and other suppliers such as Ford Motor Company, General Motors and Drew are terminable at any time by either our Company or the supplier. If we cannot obtain an adequate supply of chassis or key components, this could result in a decrease in our sales and earnings. Our products and services may experience quality problems from time to time that can result in decreased sales and gross margin and could harm our reputation. Our products contain thousands of parts, many of which are supplied by a network of approved vendors. As with all of our competitors, defects may occur in our products, including those purchased from our vendors. There can be no assurance that we can detect all such defects prior to distribution of our products. In addition, although we require our suppliers to maintain appropriate levels of insurance coverage, there is no assurance that if a defect in a vendor supplied part were to occur that the vendor would have the ability to financially rectify the defect. Failure to detect defects in our products, including vendor supplied parts, could result in lost revenue, significant warranty expense and other related direct and indirect costs. Our business is subject to numerous international, federal, state and local regulations. We are subject to numerous federal, state and local regulations governing the manufacture and sale of our products, including the provisions of the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act (“NTMVSA”) and the safety standards for vehicles and components which have been promulgated under the NTMVSA by the Department of Transportation. The NTMVSA authorizes the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration to require a manufacturer to recall and repair vehicles which contain certain hazards or defects. Sales into foreign countries may be subject to similar regulations. Any recalls of our vehicles, voluntary or involuntary, could have a material adverse effect on our Company. We are also subject to federal and numerous state consumer protection and unfair trade practice laws and regulations relating to the sale, transportation and marketing of motor vehicles, including so-called “lemon laws”. Federal, state and foreign laws and regulations also impose upon vehicle operators various restrictions on the weight, length and width of motor vehicles that may be operated in certain jurisdictions or on certain roadways. Certain jurisdictions also prohibit the sale of vehicles exceeding length restrictions. Federal and state authorities also have various environmental control standards relating to air, water, noise pollution and hazardous waste generation and disposal which affect our business and operations. Further, certain U.S. and foreign laws and regulations affect the Company’s activities. Areas of our business affected by such laws and regulations include, but are not limited to, labor, advertising, consumer protection, real estate, promotions, quality of services, intellectual property, tax, import and export, anti-corruption, anti-competition, environmental, health and safety. Compliance with these laws and others may be onerous and costly, at times, and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction which further complicates compliance efforts. The Company has instituted various and comprehensive policies and procedures to ensure compliance. However, there can be no assurance that employees, contractors, vendors or our agents will not violate such laws and regulations or the Company’s policies and procedures. 10 Table of Contents As a publicly-traded company, we are subject to the regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the rules of the New York Stock Exchange. Failure to comply with any of the aforementioned laws or regulations could have an adverse impact on our business. Additionally, amendments to these regulations and the implementation of new regulations could increase the cost of manufacturing, purchasing, operating or selling our products and therefore could have an adverse impact on our business. Compliance with conflict mineral disclosure requirements creates additional compliance cost and may create reputational challenges. The SEC adopted rules pursuant to Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act setting forth new disclosure requirements concerning the use or potential use of certain minerals, deemed conflict minerals (tantalum, tin, gold and tungsten), that are mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries. These requirements necessitate due diligence efforts by the Company to assess whether such minerals are used in our products in order to make the relevant required annual disclosures that began in May 2014. We incurred costs and diverted internal resources to comply with these new disclosure requirements, including for diligence to determine the sources of those minerals that may be used or necessary to the production of our products. Compliance costs are expected to increase in future periods. We may face reputational challenges that could impact future sales if we determine that certain of our products contain minerals not determined to be conflict free or if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all conflict minerals used in our products. Our risk management policies and procedures may not be fully effective in achieving their purposes. Our policies, procedures, controls and oversight to monitor and manage our enterprise risks may not be fully effective in achieving their purpose and may leave exposure to identified or unidentified risks. Past or future misconduct by our employees or vendors could result in violations of law by us, regulatory sanctions and/or serious reputational harm or financial harm. The Company monitors its policies, procedures and controls; however, there can be no assurance that our policies, procedures and controls will be sufficient to prevent all forms of misconduct. We review our compensation policies and practices as part of our overall enterprise risk management program, but it is possible that our compensation policies could incentivize inappropriate risk taking or misconduct. If such inappropriate risks or misconduct occurs, it is possible that it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and/or our financial condition. Interruption of information service or misappropriation or breach of our information systems could cause disruption and damage to our reputation. Our business relies on information systems and other technology (“information systems”) to support our business operations, including but not limited to procurement, supply chain, manufacturing, distribution, invoicing and collection of payments. We use information systems to report and audit our operational results. Additionally, we rely upon information systems in our marketing and communication efforts. Due to our reliance on our information systems, we have established various levels of security, backup and disaster recovery procedures. Our business processes and operations may, however, be negatively impacted in the event of substantial disruption of service. Further, misuse, leakage, unauthorized access or falsification of information could result in a violation of privacy laws and damage to our reputation which could, in turn, have a negative impact on our results. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims. We rely on certain trademarks and patents, including contractual rights with third parties. We endeavor to protect our rights; however, third parties may infringe upon our intellectual property rights. We may be forced to take steps to protect our rights, including through litigation. This could result in a diversion of resources. The inability to protect our intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may also be subject to claims by third parties, seeking to enforce their claimed intellectual property rights. We could incur asset impairment charges for goodwill, intangible assets or other long-lived assets. We have a significant amount of goodwill, intangible assets and other long-lived assets. At least annually, we review goodwill for impairment. Long-lived assets, identifiable intangible assets and goodwill are also reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable from future cash flows. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, sale or disposition of a significant portion of the business or other factors. If the carrying value of a long-lived asset is considered impaired, an impairment charge is recorded for the amount by which the carrying value of the long-lived asset exceeds its fair value. Our determination of future cash flows, future recoverability and fair value of our long-lived assets includes significant estimates and assumptions. Changes in those estimates or assumptions or lower than anticipated future financial performance may result in the identification of an impaired asset and a non-cash impairment charge, which could be material. Any such charge could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. 11 Table of Contents Our operations are dependent upon the services of key individuals, and their loss could materially harm us. We rely upon the knowledge, experience and skills of our employees to compete effectively in our business and manage our operations. In addition, our future success will depend on, among other factors, our ability to attract and retain executive management, key employees and other qualified personnel. Upon the departure of key employees, our success may depend upon the existence of adequate succession plans. The loss of key employees or the failure to attract or retain qualified employees could have a material adverse effect on us in the event that our succession plans prove inadequate. Planned re-configuration, relocation or expansion of certain production operations may incur unanticipated costs or delays that could adversely affect operating results. The development and expansion of certain products and models may require the re-configuration, relocation or expansion of certain production operations. Such activities may be delayed or incur unanticipated costs which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, the start-up of operations in new facilities may incur unanticipated costs and inefficiencies which may adversely affect our profitability during the ramp up of production in those facilities. Recent business acquisitions and internal operating segment mergers pose integration risks. The acquisitions of the assets and operations of Livin’ Lite and Bison and the purchase of the stock of KZ in fiscal 2014, plus the merger of Dutchmen into the Keystone subsidiary, pose a number of potential integration risks that may result in us experiencing negative consequences to our business, financial condition or results of operations. The transaction activity, the integration of the recently acquired assets, operations and companies and the merger of subsidiaries within Thor involve a number of related risks, including, but not limited to: — Demands on management related to various integration activities; — The diversion of management’s attention from the management of daily operations to the integration of operations; — The assimilation and retention of employees; — The ability of the management teams at these entities to meet operational and financial expectations; — The integration of departments and systems, including accounting systems, technologies, books and records and procedures; and — The establishment or maintenance of uniform standards and controls, including internal accounting controls, procedures and policies. Exchange rate fluctuations may have an indirect effect on our sales. Although our sales to dealers are made in U.S. dollars, we generate considerable sales in Canada. Should the U.S. dollar strengthen relative to the Canadian dollar, sales may be negatively impacted. Risks Relating To Our Company Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may make it difficult for a third party to acquire our Company and could depress the price of our common stock. Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation contains certain supermajority voting provisions that could delay, defer or prevent a change in control of our Company. These provisions could also make it more difficult for shareholders to elect directors, amend our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and take other corporate actions. We are also subject to certain provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law that could delay, deter or prevent us from entering into an acquisition, including provisions which prohibit a Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested shareholder unless specific conditions are met. The existence of these provisions could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock and may deprive investors of an opportunity to sell shares at a premium over prevailing prices. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 12 Table of Contents 