ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSOur business and financial results are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are not within our control. When considering any investment in our securities, investors should carefully consider the following information, as well as information contained in the caption “Forward-Looking Statements,” Item 7A, and other documents we file with the SEC. This list is not exhaustive and the order of presentation does not reflect management’s determination of priority or likelihood. Additionally, our listing of risk factors that primarily affect one of our business segments does not indicate that such risk factor is inapplicable to our other business segments.Risks Related to our Business GenerallyREGULATORY RISK. Regulation of our businesses, including changes in the regulatory environment, failure of regulatory authorities to approve rates which provide for timely recovery of our costs and an adequate return on invested capital, or an unfavorable outcome in regulatory proceedings may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.The OPUC and WUTC have general regulatory authority over our utility business in Oregon and Washington, respectively, including the rates charged to customers, authorized rates of return on rate base, including return on equity, the amounts and types of securities we may issue, services we provide and the manner in which we provide them, the nature of investments we make, actions investors may take with respect to our company, and deferral and recovery of various expenses, including, but not limited to, pipeline replacement, environmental remediation costs, pension expense, transactions with affiliated interests, and other matters. Similarly, in our gas storage business FERC has regulatory authority over interstate storage services, and the CPUC has regulatory authority over our Gill Ranch storage operations.The prices that the OPUC and WUTC allow us to charge for retail service, and the tariff rate that FERC permits us to charge for transmission, are the most significant factors affecting our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. The OPUC and WUTC have the authority to disallow recovery of costs they find imprudently incurred. For example, in our most recent Oregon rate case concluding in 2012, the OPUC disallowed certain deferred tax amounts the deferral of which was not previously reviewed by the OPUC, resulting in an after tax charge to net income when the order was received. Additionally, the rates allowed by the FERC may be insufficient for recovery of costs incurred. We expect to continue to make expenditures to expand, improve and operate our utility distribution and gas storage systems. Regulators can find such expansions or improvements of expenditures were not prudently incurred, and deny recovery. Additionally, while the OPUC and WUTC have established through the ratemaking process an authorized rate of return for our utility, the regulatory process does not provide assurance that we will be able to achieve the earnings level authorized.Moreover, in the normal course of business we may place assets in service or incur higher than expected levels of operating expense before rate cases can be filed to recover those costs—this is commonly referred to as “regulatory lag.” The failure of any regulatory commission to approve requested rate increases on a timely basis to recover increased costs or to allow an adequate return could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.In our latest general rate case with the OPUC, various items were deferred for future resolution in separate proceedings, including a review of our working gas inventory carrying costs, the definition of the earnings test under the SRRM, the prudence of environmental expenditures we have deferred to date, recovery of prepaid pension costs, and our revenue-sharing arrangement on the utility's interstate storage activities. The regulatory proceedings in which these issues will be resolved typically involve multiple parties, including governmental agencies, consumer advocacy groups, and others who are impacted by the use of natural gas. Each party has differing concerns, but all generally have the common objective of limiting amounts included in rates. We cannot predict the outcome of these deferred proceedings or the effects of those outcomes on our results of operations and financial condition.ECONOMIC AND MARKET RISK. Adverse economic and financial market conditions may have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations.While the national and regional economy appears to be experiencing some recovery from the recent downturn, we cannot predict how robust the recovery will be, or whether it will be sustained. Continued or increased sluggishness in our regional economy, could result in low levels of new housing construction, conversions to natural gas, customer additions, and relatively higher levels of residential vacancies, lending restrictions, and personal and business bankruptcies, as well as reduced spending. All of these factors could all result in a decline in or sustained lower levels of natural gas consumption and customer growth, a slowing of collections from our customers, and higher levels of delinquent accounts receivable and bad debts, all of which could have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations.ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITY RISK. Certain of our properties and facilities may pose environmental risks requiring remediation, the costs of which are difficult to estimate and which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.We own, or previously owned, properties that require environmental remediation or other action. We accrue all material loss contingencies relating to these properties. A regulatory asset at the utility has already been recorded for estimated costs pursuant to a deferral order from the OPUC and WUTC. In addition to maintaining regulatory deferrals, we are vigorously litigating against certain of our historical liability insurers for a portion of the costs we have incurred to date and expect to incur in the future. To the extent we are unable to recover these deferred costs in utility customer rates or through insurance, we would be required to reduce our regulatory asset which would result in a charge to current year earnings. In addition, in our most recent Oregon general rate case, the OPUC approved the SRRM, which limits recovery of our deferred amounts to 13Table of Contentsthose amounts which satisfy an annual prudence review and an earnings test, the definition of which was deferred to a later regulatory proceeding. These prudence reviews and earnings tests could reduce the amounts we are allowed to recover, and which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flowsIn addition to litigation against historical insurers, we may have disputes with regulators and other parties as to the severity of particular environmental matters and what remediation efforts are appropriate. We cannot predict with certainty the amount or timing of future expenditures related to environmental investigation, remediation or other action, or disputes or litigation arising in relation thereto. Our liability estimates are based on current remediation technology, industry experience gained at similar sites, an assessment of the probable level of involvement, and financial condition of other potentially responsible parties. However, it is difficult to estimate such costs due to uncertainties surrounding the course of environmental remediation, the preliminary nature of certain of our site investigations, and the application of environmental laws that impose joint and several liabilities on all potentially responsible parties. These uncertainties and disputes arising therefrom could lead to further adversarial administrative proceedings or litigation, with associated costs and uncertain outcomes, all of which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION COMPLIANCE RISK. We are subject to environmental regulations for our ongoing operations, compliance with which could adversely affect our operations or financial results.We are subject to laws, regulations and other legal requirements enacted or adopted by federal, state and local governmental authorities relating to protection of the environment, including those legal requirements that govern discharges of substances into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and waste, groundwater quality and availability, plant and wildlife protection, and other aspects of environmental regulation. Current and additional environmental regulations could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions and could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from insurance or through utility customer rates.GLOBAL CLIMATE CHANGE RISK. Future legislation to address global climate change may expose us to regulatory and financial risk. Additionally, our business may be subject to physical risks associated with climate change, all of which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.There are a number of international, federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives being proposed and adopted in an attempt to measure, control or limit the effects of global warming and overall climate change, including greenhouse gas emissions such as carbon dioxide and methane. Such current or future legislation or regulation could impose on us operational requirements, additional charges to fund energy efficiency initiatives, or levy a tax based on carbon content. Such initiatives could result in us incurring additional costs to comply with the imposed restrictions, provide a cost advantage to energy sources other than natural gas, reduce demand for natural gas, impose costs or restrictions on end users of natural gas, impact the prices we charge our customers, impose increased costs on us associated with the adoption of new infrastructure and technology to respond to such requirements, and may impact cultural perception of our service or products negatively, diminishing the value of our brand, all of which could adversely affect our business practices, financial condition and results of operations.Climate change may cause physical risks, including an increase in sea level, intensified storms, water scarcity and changes in weather conditions, such as changes in precipitation, average temperatures and extreme wind or other climate conditions. A significant portion of the nation’s gas infrastructure is located in areas susceptible to storm damage that could be aggravated by wetland and barrier island erosion, which could give rise to gas supply interruptions and price spikes.These and other physical changes could result in disruptions to natural gas production and transportation systems potentially increasing the cost of gas beyond that assumed in our PGA and affecting our ability to procure gas to meet our customer demand. These changes could also affect our distribution systems resulting in increased maintenance and capital costs, disruption of service, regulatory actions and lower customer satisfaction. Additionally, to the extent that climate change adversely impacts the economic health or weather conditions of our service territory directly, it could adversely impact customer demand or our customers' ability to pay. Such physical risks could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT RISK. Our business development projects may encounter unanticipated obstacles, costs, changes or delays that could result in a project becoming impaired, which could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Business development projects involve many risks. We are currently engaged in several business development projects, including, but not limited to, the early planning and development stage on a regional cross-Cascades pipeline in Oregon. We may also engage in other business development projects in the future, including expansion of our gas storage facilities at Mist or Gill Ranch, or the investment in additional long-term gas reserves. With respect to these projects, we may not be able to obtain required governmental permits and approvals to complete our projects in a cost-efficient or timely manner potentially resulting in delays or abandonment of the projects. We could also experience startup and construction delays, construction cost overruns, inability to negotiate acceptable agreements such as rights-of-way, easements, construction, gas supply or other material contracts, changes in customer demand or commitment, public opposition to projects, changes in market prices, and operating cost increases. Additionally, we may be unable to finance our business development projects at acceptable interest rates or within a scheduled timeframe necessary for completing the project. 14Table of ContentsOne or more of these events could result in the project becoming impaired, and such impairment could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.JOINT PARTNER RISK. Investing in business development projects through partnerships, joint ventures or other business arrangements affects our ability to manage certain risks and could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.We use joint ventures and other business arrangements to manage and diversify the risks of certain utility and non-utility development projects, including our cross-Cascades pipeline, Gill Ranch storage and Encana gas reserves. We may acquire or develop part-ownership interests in other similar projects in the future. Under these arrangements, we may not be able to fully direct the management and policies of the business relationships, and other participants in those relationships may take action contrary to our interests including making operational decisions that could affect our costs and liabilities. In addition, other participants may withdraw from the project, become financially distressed or bankrupt, or have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours. For example, our gas reserves venture with Encana, which operates as a hedge backed by physical gas supplies, involves a number of risks. These risks include gas production that is significantly less than the expected volumes, or no gas volumes; operating costs that are higher than expected; changes in our consolidated tax position or tax law that could affect our ability to take, or timing of, certain tax benefits that impact the financial outcome of this transaction; inherent risks of gas production, including disruption to operations or complete shut-in of the field; and a participant in one of these business arrangements acting contrary to our interests. In addition, while the cost of the gas reserves venture with Encana is currently included in customer rates, the occurrence of one or more of these risks, could affect our ability to recover this hedge in rates, which could adversely impact the project as well as our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. OPERATING RISK. Transporting and storing natural gas involves numerous risks that may result in accidents and other operating risks and costs, some or all of which may not be fully covered by insurance, and which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Our operations are subject to all of the risks and hazards inherent in the businesses of local gas distribution and storage, including:•earthquakes, floods, storms, landslides and other adverse weather conditions and hazards;•leaks or other losses of natural gas or other hydrocarbons as a result of the malfunction of equipment or facilities;•damages from third parties, including construction, farm and utility equipment or other surface users;•operator errors;•negative unpredicted performance by our storage reservoirs that could cause us to fail to meet expected or forecasted operational levels or contractual commitments to our customers;•problems maintaining, or the malfunction of, pipelines, wellbores and related equipment and facilities that form a part of the infrastructure that is critical to the operation of our gas distribution and storage facilities;•collapse of underground storage caverns;•migration of natural gas through faults in the rock or to some area of the reservoir where existing wells cannot drain the gas effectively resulting in loss of the gas;•blowouts (uncontrolled escapes of gas from a pipeline or well) or other accidents, fires and explosions; and•risks and hazards inherent in the drilling operations associated with the development of the gas storage facilities and/or wells.These risks could result in personal injury or loss of human life, damage to and destruction of property and equipment, pollution or other environmental damage, breaches of our contractual commitments, and may result in curtailment or suspension of our operations, which in turn could lead to significant costs and lost revenues. Further, because our pipeline, storage and distribution facilities are in or near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, and industrial sites, any loss of human life or adverse financial outcome resulting from such events could be significant. Additionally, we may not be able to obtain the level or types of insurance we desire, and the insurance coverage we do obtain may contain large deductibles or fail to cover certain hazards or cover all potential losses. The occurrence of any operating risks not covered by insurance could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.BUSINESS CONTINUITY RISK. We may be adversely impacted by local or national disasters, pandemic illness, terrorist activities, including cyber attacks, and other extreme events to which we may not able to promptly respond.Local or national disasters, pandemic illness, terrorist activities, including cyber attacks, and other extreme events are a threat to our assets and operations. Companies in our industry may face a heightened risk due to exposure to acts of terrorism, including physical and cyber attacks, that could target or impact our natural gas distribution, transmission or storage facilities and result in a disruption in our operations and ability to meet customer requirements. In addition, the threat of terrorist activities could lead to increased economic instability and volatility in the price of natural gas that could affect our operations. Threatened or actual national disasters or terrorist activities may also disrupt capital markets and our ability to raise capital, or impact our suppliers or our customers directly. Local disaster or pandemic illness could result in part of our workforce being unable to operate or maintain our infrastructure or perform other tasks necessary to conduct our business. A slow or inadequate response to events may have an adverse impact on operations and earnings. We may not be able to obtain sufficient insurance to cover all risks associated with local and national disasters, pandemic illness, terrorist activities and other events, which could increase the risk that an event could adversely affect our operations or financial results.15Table of ContentsEMPLOYEE BENEFIT RISK. The cost of providing pension and postretirement healthcare benefits is subject to changes in pension assets and liabilities, changing employee demographics and changing actuarial assumptions, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Until we closed the plans to new hires, which for non-union employees was in 2006 and for union employees was in 2009, we provided pension plans and postretirement healthcare benefits to eligible full-time utility employees and retirees. Most of our current utility employees were hired prior to these dates, and therefore remain eligible for these plans. Our cost of providing such benefits is subject to changes in the market value of our pension assets, changes in employee demographics including longer life expectancies, increases in healthcare costs, current and future legislative changes, and various actuarial calculations and assumptions. The actuarial assumptions used to calculate our future pension and postretirement healthcare expense may differ materially from actual results due to significant market fluctuations and changing withdrawal rates, wage rates, interest rates and other factors. These differences may result in an adverse impact on the amount of pension contributions, pension expense or other postretirement benefit costs recorded in future periods. Sustained declines in equity markets and reductions in bond rates may have a material adverse effect on the value of our pension fund assets. In these circumstances, we may be required to recognize increased contributions and pension expense earlier than we had planned to the extent that the value of pension assets is less than the total anticipated liability under the plans, which could have a negative impact on financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.WORKFORCE RISK. Our business is heavily dependent on being able to attract and retain qualified employees and maintain a competitive cost structure with market-based salaries and employee benefits, and workforce disruptions could adversely affect our operations and results.Our ability to implement our business strategy and serve our customers is dependent upon our continuing ability to attract and retain talented professionals and a technically skilled workforce, and being able to transfer the knowledge and expertise of our workforce to new employees as our aging employees retire. Without an appropriately skilled workforce, our ability to provide quality service and meet our regulatory requirements will be challenged and this could negatively impact our earnings. Additionally, within our utility segment a majority of our workers are represented by the OPEIU Local No.11 AFL-CIO (the Union), and are covered by a collective bargaining agreement that extends to May 31, 2014. Disputes with the Union over terms and conditions of the agreement could result in instability in our labor relationship and work stoppages that could impact the timely delivery of gas and other services from our utility and Mist gas storage, which could strain relationships with customers and state regulators and cause a loss of revenues. Our collective bargaining agreement may also increase the cost of employing our Union workforce, affect our ability to continue offering market-based salaries and employee benefits, limit our flexibility in dealing with our workforce, and limit our ability to change work rules and practices and implement other efficiency-related improvements to successfully compete in today’s challenging marketplace, which may negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations.LEGISLATIVE, COMPLIANCE AND TAXING AUTHORITY RISK. We are subject to governmental regulation, and compliance with local, state and federal requirements, including taxing requirements, and unforeseen changes in or interpretations of such requirements could affect our financial condition and results of operations.We are subject to regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities. We are required to comply with a variety of laws and regulations and to obtain authorizations, permits, approvals and certificates from governmental agencies in various aspects of our business. We cannot predict with certainty the impact of any future revisions or changes in interpretations of existing regulations or the adoption of new laws and regulations applicable to them. Additionally, any failure to comply with existing or new laws and regulations could result in fines, penalties or injunctive measures that could affect operating assets. For example, under the Energy Policy Act of 2005, the FERC has civil authority under the Natural Gas Act to impose penalties for current violations of up to $1 million per day for each violation. In addition, as the regulatory environment for our industry increases in complexity, the risk of inadvertent noncompliance may also increase. Changes in regulations, the imposition of additional regulations, and the failure to comply with laws and regulations could negatively influence our operating environment and results of operations. Additionally, changes in federal, state or local tax laws and their related regulations, or differing interpretation or enforcement of applicable law by a federal, state or local taxing authority, could result in substantial cost to us and negatively affect our results of operations. Tax law and its related regulations and case law are inherently complex and dynamic. Disputes over interpretations of tax laws may be settled with the taxing authority in examination, upon appeal or through litigation. Our judgments may include reserves for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that have been taken that may be subject to challenge by taxing authorities. Changes in laws, regulations or adverse judgments may negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations.SAFETY REGULATION RISK. We may experience increased federal, state and local regulation of the safety of our systems and operations, which could adversely affect our operating costs and financial results.The safety and protection of the public, our customers and our employees is and will remain our top priority. We are committed to consistently monitoring and maintaining our distribution system and storage operations to ensure that natural gas is acquired, stored and delivered safely, reliably and efficiently. Given recent high-profile natural gas explosions and accidents in other parts of the country, we anticipate that the natural gas industry may be the subject of even greater federal, state and local regulatory oversight. We intend to work diligently with industry associations and federal and state regulators to ensure compliance with the new laws, such as the “Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty, and Job Creation Act of 2011” signed into law in 16Table of Contentsearly 2012. We expect there to be increased costs associated with compliance with this and similar laws, and those costs could be significant. If these costs are not recoverable in our customer rates, they could have a negative impact on our operating costs and financial results. HEDGING RISK. Our risk management policies and hedging activities cannot eliminate the risk of commodity price movements and other financial market risks, and our hedging activities may expose us to additional liabilities for which rate recovery may be disallowed, which could result in an adverse impact on our operating revenues, costs, derivative assets and liabilities and operating cash flows.Our gas purchasing requirements expose us to risks of commodity price movements, while our use of debt and equity financing exposes us to interest rate, liquidity and other financial market risks. In our Utility segment, we attempt to manage these exposures with both financial and physical hedging mechanisms, including our recent gas reserve transaction with Encana which is a hedge backed by physical gas supplies. While we have risk management procedures for hedging in place, they may not always work as planned and cannot entirely eliminate the risks associated with hedging. Additionally, our hedging activities may cause us to incur additional expenses to obtain the hedge. We do not hedge our entire interest rate or commodity cost exposure, and the unhedged exposure will vary over time. Gains or losses experienced through hedging activities, including carrying costs, generally flow through the PGA mechanism or are recovered in future general rate cases. However, the hedge transactions we enter into for the utility are subject to a prudence review by the OPUC and WUTC, and, if found imprudent, those expenses may be disallowed, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our actual business requirements and available resources may vary from forecasts, which are used as the basis for our hedging decisions, and could cause our exposure to be more or less than we anticipated. Moreover, if our derivative instruments and hedging transactions do not qualify for hedge accounting under generally accepted accounting standards, our hedges may not be effective and our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.We also have credit-related exposure to derivative counterparties. In general, we require our counterparties to have an investment-grade credit rating at the time the derivative instrument is entered into, and we specify limits on the contract amount and duration based on each counterparty’s credit rating. Nevertheless, counterparties owing us money or physical natural gas commodities could breach their obligations. Should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative arrangements to meet our normal business requirements. In that event, our financial results could be adversely affected. Additionally, under most of our hedging arrangements, any downgrade of our senior unsecured long-term debt credit rating could allow our counterparties to require us to post cash, a letter of credit or other form of collateral, which would expose us to additional costs and may trigger significant increases in borrowing from our credit facilities if the credit rating downgrade is below investment grade.INABILITY TO ACCESS CAPITAL MARKET RISK. Our inability to access capital, or significant increases in the cost of capital, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.Our ability to obtain adequate and cost effective short-term and long-term financing depends on maintaining investment grade credit ratings as well as the existence of liquid and stable financial markets. Our businesses rely on access to capital markets, including commercial paper, bond and equity markets, to finance our operations, construction expenditures and other business requirements, and to refund maturing debt that cannot be funded entirely by internal cash flows. Disruptions in the capital markets could adversely affect our ability to access short-term and long-term financing. Our access to funds under committed short-term credit facilities, which are currently provided by a number of banks, is dependent on the ability of the participating banks to meet their funding commitments. Those banks may not be able to meet their funding commitments if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity. Disruptions in the bank or capital financing markets as a result of economic uncertainty, changing or increased regulation of the financial sector, or failure of major financial institutions could adversely affect our access to capital and negatively impact our ability to run our business and make strategic investments.A negative change in our current credit ratings, particularly below investment grade, could adversely affect our cost of borrowing and access to sources of liquidity and capital. Such a downgrade could further limit our access to borrowing under available credit lines. Additionally, downgrades in our current credit ratings below investment grade could cause additional delays in accessing the capital markets by the utility while we seek supplemental state regulatory approval, which could hamper our ability to access credit markets on a timely basis. A credit downgrade could also require additional support in the form of letters of credit, cash or other forms of collateral and otherwise adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.Risks Related Primarily to Our Local Utility BusinessGAS PRICE RISK. Higher natural gas commodity prices and volatility in the price of gas may adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.The cost of natural gas is affected by a variety of factors, including weather, changes in demand, the level of production and availability of natural gas supplies, transportation constraints, availability and cost of pipeline capacity, federal and state energy and environmental regulation and legislation, natural disasters and other catastrophic events, national and worldwide economic and political conditions, and the price and availability of alternative fuels. In our utility segment, the cost we pay for natural gas is generally passed through to our customers through an annual PGA rate adjustment. If gas prices were to increase significantly, it would raise the cost of energy to our utility customers, potentially causing those customers to conserve or switch to alternate sources of energy. 17Table of ContentsSignificant price increases could also cause new home builders and commercial developers to select alternative fuel sources. Decreases in the volume of gas we sell could reduce our earnings, and a decline in customers could slow growth in our future earnings. Additionally, because a portion of any 10% or 20% difference between the estimated average PGA gas cost in rates and the actual average gas cost incurred is recognized as current income or expense, higher average gas costs than those assumed in setting rates can adversely affect our operating cash flows, liquidity and results of operations. Additionally, notwithstanding our current rate structure, higher gas costs could result in increased pressure on the OPUC or the WUTC to seek other means to reduce rates, which also could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.Higher gas prices may also cause us to experience an increase in short-term debt and temporarily reduce liquidity because we pay suppliers for gas when it is purchased, which can be in advance of when these costs are recovered through rates. Significant increases in the price of gas can also slow our collection efforts as customers experience increased difficulty in paying their higher energy bills, leading to higher than normal delinquent accounts receivable resulting in greater expense associated with collection efforts and increased bad debt expense.CUSTOMER GROWTH RISK. Our utility margin, earnings and cash flow may be negatively affected if we are unable to sustain customer growth rates in our local gas distribution segment.Our utility margins and earnings growth have largely depended upon the sustained growth of our residential and commercial customer base due, in part, to the new construction housing market, conversions of customers to natural gas from other fuel sources and growing commercial use of natural gas. Insufficient growth in these markets, for economic, political or other reason could result in an adverse long-term impact on our utility margin, earnings and cash flows.RISK OF COMPETITION. Our gas distribution business is subject to increased competition which could negatively affect our results of operations.In the residential market, our gas distribution business competes primarily with suppliers of electricity, fuel oil, propane, and renewable energy providers. We also compete with suppliers of electricity, fuel oil and renewable energy providers for commercial applications. In the industrial market, we compete with suppliers of all forms of energy, including oil, electricity, renewable energy providers and, as it relates to sources of energy for electric power plants, coal and hydro. Competition among these forms of energy is based on price, efficiency, reliability, performance, market conditions, technology, environmental impacts and public perception.Technological improvements in other energy sources such as heat pumps could also erode our competitive advantage. If natural gas prices rise relative to other energy sources, or if the cost, environmental impact or public perception of such other energy sources improves relative to natural gas, it may negatively affect our ability to attract new customers or retain our existing residential, commercial and industrial customers, which could have a negative impact on our customer growth rate and results of operations.RELIANCE ON THIRD PARTIES TO SUPPLY NATURAL GAS RISK. We rely on third parties to supply the natural gas in our distribution segment, and limitations on our ability to obtain supplies, or failure to receive expected supplies for which we have contracted, could have an adverse impact on our financial results.Our ability to secure natural gas for current and future sales depends upon our ability to purchase and receive delivery of supplies of natural gas from third parties. We, and in some cases, our suppliers of natural gas do not have control over the availability of natural gas supplies, competition for those supplies, disruptions in those supplies, priority allocations on transmission pipelines, or pricing of those supplies. Additionally, third parties on which we rely may fail to deliver gas for which we have contracted. If we are unable to obtain, or are limited in our ability to obtain, natural gas from our current suppliers or new sources, we may not be able to meet our customers' gas requirements and would likely incur costs associated with actions necessary to mitigate services disruptions, both of which could significantly and negatively impact our results of operations.SINGLE TRANSPORTATION PIPELINE RISK. We rely on a single pipeline company for the transportation of gas to our service territory, a disruption of which could adversely impact our ability to meet our customers’ gas requirements.Our distribution system is directly connected to a single interstate pipeline, which is owned and operated by Northwest Pipeline. The pipeline’s gas flows are bi-directional, transporting gas into the Portland metropolitan market from two directions: (1) the north, which brings supplies from the British Columbia and Alberta supply basins; and (2) the east, which brings supplies from the Alberta and the U.S. Rocky Mountain supply basins. If there is a rupture or inadequate capacity in the pipeline, we may not be able to meet our customers’ gas requirements and we would likely incur costs associated with actions necessary to mitigate service disruptions, both of which could significantly and negatively impact our results of operations.WEATHER RISK. Warmer than average weather may have a negative impact on our revenues and results of operations.We are exposed to weather risk primarily in our utility segment. A majority of our volume is driven by gas sales to space heating residential and commercial customers during the winter heating season. Current utility rates are based on an assumption of average weather. Warmer than average weather typically results in lower gas sales. Colder weather typically results in higher gas sales. Although the effects of warmer or colder weather on utility margin in Oregon are expected to be mitigated through the operation of our weather normalization mechanism, weather variations from normal could adversely affect utility margin because we may be required to purchase more or less gas at spot rates, which may be higher or lower than the rates assumed in our PGA. Also, a portion of our Oregon residential and 18Table of Contentscommercial customers (usually less than 10%) have opted out of the weather normalization mechanism, and 10% of our customers are located in Washington where we do not have a weather normalization mechanism. These effects could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.CUSTOMER CONSERVATION RISK. Customers’ conservation efforts may have a negative impact on our revenues.An increasing national focus on energy conservation, including improved building practices and appliance efficiencies may result in increased energy conservation by customers. This can decrease our sales of natural gas and adversely affect our results of operations because revenues are collected mostly through volumetric rates, based on the amount of gas sold. In Oregon, we have a conservation tariff which is designed to recover lost utility margin due to declines in residential and commercial customers’ consumption. However, we do not have a conservation tariff in Washington that provides us this protection.RELIANCE ON TECHNOLOGY RISK. Our efforts to integrate, consolidate and streamline our operations have resulted in increased reliance on technology, the failure or security breach of which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.Over the last several years we have undertaken a variety of initiatives to integrate, standardize, centralize and streamline our operations. These efforts have resulted in greater reliance on technological tools such as: an enterprise resource planning system, an automated dispatch system, an automated meter reading system, a customer information system, and other similar technological tools and initiatives. The failure of any of these or other similarly important technologies, or our inability to have these technologies supported, updated, expanded or integrated into other technologies, could adversely impact our operations. Additionally, our utility could experience breaches of security pertaining to sensitive customer, employee and vendor information maintained by the utility in the normal course of business. which could adversely affect the utility’s reputation, diminish customer confidence, disrupt operations, and subject us to possible financial liability or increased regulation or litigation, any of which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.Furthermore, we rely on information technology systems in our operations of our distribution and storage operations. There are various risks associated with these systems, including, hardware and software failure, communications failure, data distortion or destruction, unauthorized access to data, misuse of proprietary or confidential data, unauthorized control through electronic means, programming mistakes and other inadvertent errors or deliberate human acts. In particular, cyber security attacks, terrorism or other malicious acts could damage, destroy or disrupt all of our business systems. Any failure of information technology systems could result in a loss of operating revenues, an increase in operating expenses and costs to repair or replace damaged assets. As these potential cyber security attacks become more common and sophisticated, we could be required to incur costs to strengthen our systems or obtain specific insurance coverage against potential losses.Risks Related Primarily to Our Gas Storage BusinessLONG-TERM LOW OR STABILIZATION OF GAS PRICE RISK. Any significant stabilization of natural gas prices or long-term low gas prices could have a negative impact on the demand for our natural gas storage services, which could adversely affect our financial results.Storage businesses benefit from price volatility, which impacts the level of demand for services and the rates that can be charged for storage services. On a system-wide basis, natural gas is typically injected into storage between April and October when natural gas prices are generally lower and withdrawn during the winter months of November through March when natural gas prices are typically higher. Largely due to the abundant supply of natural gas made available by hydraulic fracturing techniques, natural gas prices have dropped significantly to levels that are near a 10-year low. If prices and volatility remain low or decline further, then the demand for storage services, and the prices that we will be able to charge for those services, may decline or be depressed for a prolonged period of time. A sustained decline in these prices could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.NATURAL GAS STORAGE COMPETITION RISK. Increasing competition in the natural gas storage business could reduce the demand for our storage services and drive prices down for storage, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operation and cash flows.Our natural gas storage segment competes primarily with other storage facilities and pipelines. Natural gas storage is an increasingly competitive business, with ongoing expansions and proposed construction of new storage capacity in California, the U.S. Rocky Mountains and elsewhere in the United States and Canada. Increased competition in the natural gas storage business could reduce the demand for our natural gas storage services, drive prices down for our storage business, and adversely affect our ability to renew or replace existing contracts at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.THIRD-PARTY PIPELINE RISK. Our gas storage business depends on third-party pipelines that connect our storage facilities to interstate pipelines, the failure or unavailability of which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Our gas storage facilities are reliant on the continued operation of a third-party pipeline and other facilities that provide delivery options to and from our storage facilities. Because we do not own all of these pipelines, their operation is not within our control. If the third-party pipeline to which we are connected were to become unavailable for current or future withdrawals or injections of natural gas due to repairs, damage to the infrastructure, lack of capacity or other reason, our ability to operate efficiently and satisfy our customers’ needs could be compromised, thereby 19Table of Contentspotentially could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.OPERATIONS AT NEW STORAGE FACILITY RISK. Operations at our new Gill Ranch storage facility involves numerous operational risks that may result in a failure to meet expectations or contractual obligations, additional or unexpected costs and other business risks that could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.In October 2010, we commenced operations at our Gill Ranch storage facility. Operations at a new storage facility involve many risks. Although we believe that Gill Ranch storage facility has been successfully completed to meet our contractual obligations and project specifications with respect to injection, withdrawal and gas specifications, the facility is new, and has a limited operating history. If we fail to inject or withdraw natural gas at the levels we expect or at contracted rates, or cannot deliver natural gas consistent with our expectations or contractual specifications, or otherwise operate as expected, or if operating costs are substantially higher than we expect or if we fail to control those costs, we may not be able to contract for storage at the levels and on the terms we expect, and we could incur higher than expected costs to satisfy our contractual obligations under contracts we obtain, and this could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have no unresolved comments.