ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business and financial results are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are not within our control. When considering any investment in our securities, investors should carefully consider the following information, as well as information contained in the caption “Forward Looking Statements,” Item 7A., and other documents we file with the SEC. This list is not exhaustive and the order of presentation does not reflect management’s determination of priority or likelihood. Additionally, our listing of risk factors that primarily affect one of our business segments does not indicate that such risk factor is inapplicable to our other business segments. Risks Related to our Business Generally Economic risk. Changes in the economy and in the financial markets may have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in economic activity in our markets and in global financial markets can result in a decline in energy consumption, which could have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In recent years, the U.S. and world economies have slowed, credit markets have tightened, unemployment rates and mortgage defaults have risen, and the value of homes and other personal as well as business investments have declined, which has adversely affected the income and financial resources of many domestic households and businesses. It is unclear whether the federal responses to these conditions will lessen the severity or duration of this economic downturn, or could possibly trigger inflationary conditions. Our operations and financial results are affected by these economic conditions. Less new housing construction, fewer conversions to natural gas, fewer customer additions, higher levels of residential foreclosures and vacancies, higher borrowing rates, and personal and business bankruptcies or reduced spending could all result in a decline in energy consumption and customer growth, a slowing of collections from our customers, and a higher than normal level of accounts receivable and bad debts, all of which could have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Regulatory risk. Regulation of our businesses, including changes in the regulatory environment in general, and failure of regulatory authorities to approve rates which provide for timely recovery of our costs and an adequate return on invested capital in particular, may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. The OPUC and WUTC have general regulatory authority over our utility business in Oregon and Washington, respectively, including the rates charged to customers, authorized rates of return on capital invested, the amounts and types of securities we may issue, services we provide, facilities we own or operate, terms of customer services, system of accounts, the nature of investments we may make, safety standards, deferral and recovery of various expenses, including, but not limited to, pipeline replacement and environmental remediation costs, transactions with affiliated interests, actions investors may take with respect to our company and other matters. Similarly, FERC has regulatory authority over our interstate gas storage services, and the CPUC has regulatory authority over our Gill Ranch gas storage operations. 17 Table of Contents The rates we charge to customers must be approved by the applicable regulatory agencies. Our utility and gas storage rates are generally designed to allow us to recover the costs of providing such services and to earn an adequate return on our capital investment. However, the rates charged to customers of Gill Ranch for gas storage services are based on negotiated rates (i.e. market-based rates) rather than on our recovery of costs plus a reasonable return on our investment (i.e. cost-based rates). We expect to continue to make expenditures to expand, improve and operate our utility distribution and gas storage systems. Regulators can deny such expansions or improvements or recovery of expenditures we make if they find that such expenditures were not prudently incurred accord ing to their regulatory standards. In addition, in the normal course of business we may place assets in service or incur higher than expected levels of operating expense before rate cases can be filed to recover those costs—this is commonly referred to as “regulatory lag.” The failure of any regulatory commission to approve requested rate increases on a timely basis to recover increased costs or to allow an adequate return could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Business development risk. The development, construction, startup and operation of our business development projects may involve unanticipated changes or delays that could negatively impact our costs as well as our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Business development projects involve many risks. We are currently engaged in several business development projects, including the early planning and development stage on the Palomar gas transmission pipeline in Oregon and the final completion of the first phase of construction at the Gill Ranch gas storage facility in California. We may also engage in other business development projects in the future, including expansion of our gas storage facilities at Mist or Gill Ranch or the investment in long-term gas reserves. With respect to these projects, we may not be able to obtain required governmental permits and approvals, or financing, to complete our projects in a cost-efficient or timely manner. If we do not obtain the necessary regulatory approvals in a timely manner, development projects may be delayed or abandoned. There also may be startup and construction delays, construction cost overruns, inability to negotiate acceptable agreements such as rights-of-way, easements, construction, gas supply or other material contracts, changes in customer demand, public opposition to projects, changes in market prices, and operating cost increases. Additionally, natural gas storage and transportation markets are highly competitive, both within the natural gas industry and with alternative sources of energy. To fund our business development projects, we will need to secure financing from willing investors at reasonable costs. If credit markets are inaccessible, we may be unable to finance our business development projects at acceptable interest rates or within a scheduled timeframe for completing the project. Similarly, an inability to obtain the necessary state permits, or arrange for sufficient supplier commitments could impact the viability of the Palomar pipeline. One or more of these events may mean that our equity investments could become impaired and such impairment could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Joint partner risk. Investing in business development projects through partnerships, joint ventures or other business arrangements decreases our ability to manage certain risks and could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We use joint ventures and other business arrangements to manage and diversify the risks of certain utility and non-utility development projects, including Palomar and Gill Ranch, and we may acquire interests in other similar projects in the future. Under these types of business arrangements, we may not be able to fully direct the management and policies of the business relationships, and other participants in those relationships may take action contrary to our interests including making operational decisions that could affect our costs and liabilities related to a project. In addition, other participants may withdraw from the project, become financially distressed or bankrupt, or have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours. Although we have contractual and other lega l remedies to enforce our interests, if a participant in one of these business arrangements acts contrary to our interests, it could adversely impact the project as well as our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 18 Table of Contents Global climate change risk. Management expects that future legislation may impose carbon constraints to address global climate change exposing us to regulatory and financial risk. Additionally, certain properties and facilities may be subject to physical risks associated with climate change. There are a number of new international, federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives being proposed and adopted in an attempt to measure, control or limit the effects of global warming and overall climate change, including greenhouse gas emissions such as carbon dioxide. The adoption of current or future proposed legislation by the U.S. Congress or similar legislation by states, or the adoption of related regulations by federal or state regulatory bodies such as the EPA, imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of greenhouse gases from our equipment or operations could have far-reaching and significant impacts on our business as well as the broader energy industry. Such current or future legislation or regulation could also impose on us operational requirements or restrictions or ad ditional charges to fund energy efficiency initiatives. Such initiatives could result in us incurring additional costs to comply with the imposed restrictions, provide a cost advantage to energy sources other than natural gas, reduce demand for natural gas, impose costs or restrictions on end users of natural gas, impact the prices we charge our customers, impose on us increased costs associated with the adoption of new infrastructure and technology to respond to such requirements, and may impact cultural perception of our service or products negatively, diminishing the value of our brand, all of which could adversely affect our business practices, financial condition and results of operations. Climate change may cause physical risks, including an increase in sea level, intensified storms, water scarcity and changes in weather conditions, such as changes in precipitation, average temperatures and extreme wind or other climate conditions. A significant portion of the nation’s gas infrastructure is located in areas susceptible to storm damage that could be aggravated by wetland and barrier island erosion, which could give rise to gas supply interruptions and price spikes. These and other physical changes could result in changes in customer demand, increased costs associated with repairing and maintaining distribution systems resulting in increased maintenance and capital costs, increased financing needs, limits on our ability to meet peak customer demand, increased regulatory oversight, and lower customer satisfaction. Also, to the extent that climate change adversely impacts the economic health of our region, it may adversely impact customer demand and revenues. Such physical risks could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Operating risk. Transporting and storing natural gas involves numerous risks that may result in accidents and other operating risks and costs, some or all of which may not be fully covered by insurance, and which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our operations are subject to all of the risks and hazards inherent in the businesses of natural gas distribution and storage, including: · earthquakes, floods, storms, landslides and other adverse weather conditions and hazards; · leaks or other losses of natural gas or other hydrocarbons as a result of the malfunction of equipment and facilities; · damages from third parties, including construction, farm and utility equipment or other surface users; · operator errors; · negative unpredicted performance by our storage reservoirs that could cause us to fail to meet expected or forecasted operational levels or contractual commitments to our customers; · problems maintaining, or the malfunction of, pipelines, wellbores and related equipment and facilities that form a part of the infrastructure that is critical to the operation of our gas distribution and storage facilities; · collapse of storage caverns; · migration of natural gas through faults in the rock or to some area of the reservoir where existing wells cannot drain the gas effectively; · blowouts (uncontrolled escapes of gas from a pipeline or well) or other accidents, fires and explosions; and · risks and hazards inherent in the drilling operations associated with the development of the gas storage facilities and/or wells. 19 Table of Contents These risks could result in personal injury or loss of human life, damage to and destruction of property and equipment, pollution or other environmental damage, breaches of our contractual commitments, and may result in curtailment or suspension of our operations, which in turn could lead to significant costs and/or lost revenues. Further, because our pipeline, storage and distribution facilities are in or near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, and industrial sites, any loss of human life or adverse financial results resulting from such events could be significant. Natural gas that moves outside of the effective drainage area through migration could be permanently lost and will need to be replaced. Additionally, we may not be able to obtain the level or types of in surance we desire, and the insurance coverage we do obtain may contain large deductibles or fail to cover certain hazards or cover all potential losses. The occurrence of any operating risks not covered by insurance could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Business continuity risk. We may be adversely impacted by local or national disasters, pandemic illness, terrorist activities and other extreme events to which we may not able to promptly respond. Local or national disasters, pandemic illness, terrorist activities and other extreme events are a threat to our assets and operations. Companies in our industry may face a heightened risk due to exposure to actual acts of terrorism that could target or impact our natural gas distribution, transmission and storage facilities and result in a disruption in our operations and ability to meet customer requirements. In addition, the threat of terrorist activities could lead to increased economic instability and volatility in the price of natural gas that could affect our operations. Threatened or actual national disasters or terrorist activities may also disrupt capital markets and our ability to raise capital, or impact our suppliers or our customers directly. Local disaster or pandemic illness cou ld result in part of our workforce being unable to operate or maintain our infrastructure or perform other tasks necessary to conduct our business. We maintain emergency planning and training programs to remain ready to respond to events that could cause business interruption. However, a slow or inadequate response to events may have an adverse impact on operations and earnings. We may not be able to obtain sufficient insurance to cover all risks associated with local and national disasters, pandemic illness, terrorist activities and other events, which could increase the risk that an event could adversely affect our operations or financial results. Employee benefit risk. The cost of providing pension and postretirement healthcare benefits is subject to changes in pension assets and liabilities, changing employee demographics and changing actuarial assumptions, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition. We provide pension plans and postretirement healthcare benefits to most eligible full-time employees and retirees. Our cost of providing such benefits is subject to changes in the market value of our pension assets, changes in employee demographics, including longer life expectancies of beneficiaries, increases in healthcare costs, current and future legislative changes, including but not limited to the Health Care Reform Act in 2010, and various actuarial calculations and assumptions. The actuarial assumptions used to calculate our future pension and postretirement healthcare expense may differ materially from actual results due to significant market fluctuations and changing withdrawal rates, wage rates, interest rates and other factors. These differences may result in an adverse impact on the amount of pension contributions, pension e xpense or other postretirement benefit costs recorded in future periods. Sustained declines in equity markets and reductions in bond prices may have a material adverse effect on the value of our pension fund assets. In these circumstances, we may be required to recognize increased contributions and pension expense earlier than we had planned to the extent that the value of pension assets is less than the total anticipated liability under the plans, which could have a negative impact on financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Workforce risk. Our business is heavily dependent on being able to attract and retain qualified employees and maintain a competitive cost structure with market-based salaries and employee benefits, and workforce disruptions could adversely affect our operations and results. Our ability to implement business strategy and serve our customers is dependent upon our continuing ability to attract and retain talented professionals and a technically skilled workforce, and being able to transfer the knowledge and expertise of our workforce to new employees as our aging employees retire. Without an appropriately skilled workforce, our ability to provide quality service and meet our regulatory requirements will be challenged and this could negatively impact our earnings. Additionally, within our utility segment a majority of our workers are represented by the Office and Professional Employees International Union Local No.11 AFL-CIO (the Union) and are covered by a collective bargaining agreement that will expire May 31, 2014. Disputes with the Union over terms and conditions of the agreement could result in instability in our labor relationship and work stoppages that could impact the timely delivery of gas and other services from our utility and Mist gas storage, which could strain relationships with customers and state regulators and cause a loss of revenues which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our collective bargaining agreement may also increase the cost of employing our utility segment workforce, affect our ability to continue offering market-based salaries and employee benefits, limit our flexibility in dealing with our workforce, and limit our ability to change work rules and practices and implement other efficiency-related improvements to successfully compete in today’s challenging marketplace. 20 Table of Contents Legislative and taxing authority risk. We are subject to governmental regulation, and compliance with local, state and federal requirements, including taxing requirements, and unforeseen changes in or interpretations of such requirements could affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities. We are required to comply with a variety of laws and regulations and to obtain authorizations, permits, approvals and certificates from governmental agencies in various aspects of our business. We cannot predict with certainty the impact of any future revisions or changes in interpretations of existing regulations or the adoption of new laws and regulations applicable to them. Changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations could negatively influence our operating environment and results of operations. For example, Oregon law required that utilities not collect in rates more income taxes than they actually pay to taxin g authorities. If amounts paid differ from amounts collected by more than $100,000, then we are required to implement a rate schedule with an automatic adjustment to refund or collect the difference. Additionally, changes in federal, state or local tax laws and their related regulations, or differing interpretation or enforcement of applicable law by a federal, state or local taxing authority, could result in substantial cost to us and negatively affect our results of operations. Tax law and its related regulations and case law are inherently complex and dynamic. Disputes over interpretations of tax laws may be settled with the taxing authority in examination, upon appeal or through litigation. Our judgments may include reserves for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that have been taken that may be subject to challenge by taxing authorities. Changes in laws, regulations or adverse judgments may negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Environmental regulation risk. We are subject to environmental regulations which could adversely affect our operations or financial results. We are subject to laws, regulations and other legal requirements enacted or adopted by federal, state and local governmental authorities relating to protection of the environment and health and safety matters, including those legal requirements that govern discharges of substances into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and waste, the clean-up of contaminated sites, groundwater quality and availability, plant and wildlife protection, as well as work practices related to employee health and safety. Environmental legislation also requires that our facilities, sites and other properties associated with our operations be operated, maintained, abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of applicable regulatory authorities. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations, permits and licenses may expose us to fines, penalties or interruptions in our operations that could adversely affect our financial results. In addition, existing environmental regulations may be revised or our operations may become subject to new regulations, which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Environmental liability risk. Certain of our properties and facilities may pose environmental risks requiring remediation, the cost of which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We own, or previously owned, properties that require environmental remediation or other action. We accrue all material loss contingencies relating to these properties, but our results of operations may be adversely affected to the extent that estimates of the probable costs increase significantly as additional information becomes available and to the extent we are not able to recover the incremental cost from insurance or through customer rates. A regulatory asset at the utility has already been recorded for estimated costs pursuant to a deferral order from the OPUC. To the extent we are unable to recover these deferred costs in utility customer rates or through insurance, we would be required to reduce our regulatory asset which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, disputes may arise between potentially responsible parties and regulators as to the severity of particular environmental matters and what remediation efforts are appropriate. These disputes could lead to adversarial administrative proceedings or litigation, with associated costs and uncertain outcomes. 21 Table of Contents We cannot predict with certainty the amount or timing of future expenditures related to environmental investigation and remediation that may be required, or disputes arising in relation thereto, because of the difficulty of estimating such costs. There is also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on all potentially responsible parties. Moreover, there are no assurances that existing environmental regulations will not be revised or that new stricter regulations seeking to protect the environment will not be adopted or become applicable to us. Revised environmental regulations which result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, part icularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from insurance or through utility customer rates. Safety regulation risk. We may experience increased federal, state and local regulation of the safety of our operations, which could adversely affect our operating costs and financial results. We are committed to constantly monitoring and maintaining our pipeline and distribution system and storage operations to ensure that natural gas is stored and delivered safely, reliably and efficiently. The safety and protection of the public, our customers and our employees is our top priority. However, primarily due to the recent unfortunate pipeline incident in California, we anticipate companies with natural gas pipelines may be subject to even greater federal, state and local oversight over the safety of their operations in the future. Accordingly, the costs of complying with such increased regulations may have an impact on our future capital and operating costs and ultimately our financial results. Hedging risk. Our risk management policies and hedging activities cannot eliminate the risk of commodity price movements and other financial market risks, and our hedging activities may expose us to additional liabilities for which rate recovery may be disallowed, which could result in an adverse impact on our operating revenues, costs, derivative assets and liabilities and operating cash flows. In our utility segment, our gas purchasing requirements expose us to risks of commodity price movements, while our use of debt and equity financing exposes us to interest rate, liquidity and other financial market risks. We attempt to manage these exposures and mitigate our risks through adherence to established risk limits and risk management procedures, including hedging activities that are in accordance with our derivatives policy guidelines. These risk limits and risk management procedures may not always work as planned and cannot entirely eliminate the risks associated with hedging. Additionally, our hedging activities may cause us to incur additional expenses which could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We do not hedge our entire interest rate or commodity cost exposure, and the unhedged exposure will vary over time. Gains or losses experienced through hedging activities, including carrying costs, generally flow through the PGA mechanism or are recovered in future general rate cases, thereby limiting our exposure to earnings volatility on a year-to-year basis. However, the hedge transactions we enter into for the utility are subject to a prudency review by the OPUC and WUTC, and, if deemed imprudent, those expenses may be disallowed, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, actual business requirements and available resources may vary from forecasts, which are used as the basis for our hedging decisions, and could cause our exposure to be more or less tha n we anticipated. Moreover, if our derivative instruments and hedging transactions do not qualify for hedge accounting under generally accepted accounting standards, our hedges may not be effective and our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We also have credit-related exposure to derivative counterparties. In general, we require our counterparties to have an investment-grade credit rating at the time the derivative instrument is entered into, and we specify limits on the contract amount and duration based on each counterparty’s credit rating. Nevertheless, counterparties owing us money or physical natural gas commodities could breach their obligations. Should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative arrangements. In that event, our financial results could be adversely affected. Although our valuations take into account the expected probability of default and the potential loss due to a default by our counterparties, an actual default by a particular counterparty could have a greater impact than we estimate. Additionally, under most of our hedging arrangements, any downgrade of our senior unsecured long-term debt credit rating could allow our counterparties to require us to post cash, a letter of credit or other form of collateral, which would expose us to additional costs and may trigger significant increases in borrowing from our credit facilities if the credit rating downgrade is below investment grade. 22 Table of Contents Inability to access capital market risk. Our inability to access capital or significant increases in the cost of capital could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to obtain adequate and cost effective short-term and long-term financing depends on maintaining investment grade credit ratings as well as the existence of liquid and stable financial markets. Our businesses rely on access to capital markets, including commercial paper, debt capital markets and equity markets, to finance our operations, construction expenditures and other business requirements, and to refund maturing debt that cannot be funded entirely by internal cash flows. Disruptions in the capital markets could adversely affect our ability to access short-term and long-term financing. Our access to funds under committed short-term credit facilities, which are currently provided by a number of banks, is dependent on the ability of the participating banks to meet their funding commitments.& #160; Those banks may not be able to meet their funding commitments if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity. Disruptions in the bank or capital financing markets as a result of economic uncertainty, changing or increased regulation of the financial sector, or failure of major financial institutions could adversely affect our access to capital and negatively impact our ability to run our business and make strategic investments. A negative change in our current credit ratings, particularly below investment grade, could adversely affect our cost of borrowing and/or access to sources of liquidity and capital. Such a downgrade could further limit our access to borrowing under available credit lines. Additionally, downgrades in our current credit ratings below investment grade could cause additional delays in accessing the capital markets by the utility while we seek supplemental state regulatory approval, which could hamper our ability to access credit markets on a timely basis. A credit downgrade could also require additional support in the form of letters of credit, cash or other forms of collateral and otherwise adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in accounting standards. Changes in accounting standards may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. The SEC is currently considering whether issuers in the United States should be required to prepare financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) instead of the current generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the United States. IFRS is a comprehensive set of accounting standards promulgated by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), which are currently in effect for most other countries in the world. The SEC has indicated that it will decide in 2011 whether IFRS will be required for U.S. companies. If the SEC decides to adopt IFRS, we expect that U.S. companies would not be required to report under these new standards until 2015 or 2016 at the earliest. Unlike U.S. GAAP, IFRS does not currently provide an industry accounting standard for rate-regulated activit ies. As such, if IFRS were adopted in its current state, we may be precluded from applying certain regulatory accounting principles, including the recognition of certain regulatory assets and regulatory liabilities. The potential issues associated with rate-regulated accounting, along with other potential changes associated with the adoption of IFRS, may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations, should adoption of IFRS be required. Also, the U.S. Financial Accounting Standards Board is considering various changes to U.S. GAAP, some of which may be significant, as part of a joint effort with the IASB to converge accounting standards over the next several years. If approved, adoption of these changes may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. 23 Table of Contents Risks Related Primarily to Our Local Utility Business Gas price risk. Higher natural gas commodity prices and volatility in the price of gas may adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. The cost of natural gas is affected by a variety of factors, including weather, changes in demand, the level of production and availability of natural gas, imports of natural gas, transportation constraints, availability of pipeline capacity, transportation capacity cost increases, federal and state energy and environmental regulation and legislation, the degree of market liquidity, supply disruption, natural disasters, wars and other catastrophic events, national and worldwide economic and political conditions, and the price and availability of alternative fuels. In our utility segment, the cost we pay for natural gas at the utility is generally passed through to our customers through an annual PGA rate adjustment in Oregon and Washington (see below). Significant increases in the commodity price of natural gas raises the cost of energy to our utility customers, thereby potentially causing those customers to conserve or switch to alternate sources of energy. Significant price increases could also cause new home builders and commercial developers to select heating systems other than natural gas. Decreases in the volume of gas we sell could reduce our earnings in the absence of decoupled rate structures, and a decline in customers could slow growth in our future earnings. Higher gas prices may also cause us to experience an increase in short-term debt and temporarily reduce liquidity because we pay suppliers for gas when it is purchased, which can be several months or even a year in advance of when these costs are recovered through rates. Significant increases in the price of gas can also slow our collection efforts as customers experience increased difficulty in paying their higher energy bills, leading to higher than normal delinquent accounts receivable. This could contribute to higher short-term debt levels, greater expense associated with collection efforts and increased bad debt expense. In Oregon and Washington, our utility has PGA tariffs which provide for annual revisions in rates resulting from changes in the cost of purchased gas including the expected impact on bad debt expense. In Oregon, we also have a price-elasticity adjustment that adjusts rates through the annual PGA for expected increases or decreases in customer usage due to higher or lower gas prices. The Oregon PGA tariff also provides an incentive to the Company to achieve lower gas costs such that a percentage, set annually, of any difference between the estimated average PGA gas cost in rates and the actual average gas cost incurred be recognized as current income or expense (see Part II, Item 7., “Results of Operations—Regulatory Matters—Rate Mechanisms”). Accordingly, higher average gas costs than those assumed in s etting rates can adversely affect our operating cash flows, liquidity and results of operations. Notwithstanding our current rate structure, higher gas costs could result in increased pressure on the OPUC or the WUTC to seek other means to reduce rates, which also could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Customer growth risk. Our utility margin, earnings and cash flow may be negatively affected if we are unable to sustain customer growth rates in our local gas distribution segment. Our utility margins and earnings growth have largely depended upon the sustained growth of our residential and commercial customer base due, in part, to the new construction housing market, conversions of customers to natural gas from other fuel sources and growing commercial use of natural gas. Continued weakness in the residential new construction and conversion market, and continued decline in average use of natural gas by our residential and commercial customers, could result in an adverse long-term impact on our utility margin, earnings and cash flows. Risk of competition. Our gas distribution business is subject to increased competition which could negatively affect our results of operations. In the residential market, our gas distribution business competes primarily with suppliers of electricity, fuel oil, propane, and renewable energy providers. We also compete with suppliers of electricity, fuel oil and renewable energy providers for commercial applications. In the industrial market, we compete with suppliers of all forms of energy, including oil, electricity, renewable energy providers and, as it relates to sources of energy for electric power plants, coal and hydro. Competition among these forms of energy is based on price, efficiency, reliability, performance, market conditions and technology. Higher natural gas prices have at times eroded, or in some cases eliminated, the competitive price advantage of natural gas over other energy sources. Technological improvements in other energy sources could also erode our competitive advantage. If natural gas prices rise relative to other energy sources, it may negatively affect our ability to attract new customers or retain our existing residential, commercial and industrial customers, which could have a negative impact on our customer growth rate and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents Reliance on third parties to supply natural gas risk. We rely on third parties to supply substantially all of the natural gas in our distribution segment, and limitations on our ability to obtain supplies could have an adverse impact on our financial results. Our ability to secure natural gas for current and future sales depends upon our ability to purchase and deliver supplies of natural gas from third parties, as well as our ability to acquire supplies directly from new sources. Certain factors including the following may affect our ability to acquire and deliver natural gas to our current and future customers: suppliers’ or other third parties’ control over drilling of new wells and operating facilities to transport natural gas to our distribution system; competition for the acquisition of natural gas; priority allocations on transmission pipelines; impact of severe weather disruptions to natural gas supplies such as occurred with Hurricane Katrina in 2005; the regulatory and pricing policies of federal, state and local government agencies; and the availability of Ca nadian reserves for export to the United States. If we are unable to obtain or are limited in our ability to obtain natural gas from our current suppliers or new sources, our financial results could be adversely impacted. Single transportation pipeline risk. We rely on a single pipeline company for the transportation of gas to our service territory, a disruption of which could adversely impact our ability to meet our customers’ gas requirements. Our distribution system is directly connected to a single interstate pipeline, Northwest Pipeline. The pipeline’s gas flows are bi-directional, transporting gas into the Portland metropolitan market from two directions: (1) the north, which brings supplies from the British Columbia and Alberta supply basins; and (2) the east, which brings supplies from the Alberta and the U.S. Rocky Mountain supply basins. If there is a rupture or inadequate capacity in the pipeline, we may not be able to meet our customers’ gas requirements and we would likely incur costs associated with actions necessary to mitigate service disruptions, both of which would negatively impact our results of operations Weather risk. Warmer than average weather or a failure to renew our weather normalization mechanism may have a negative impact on our revenues and results of operations. We are exposed to weather risk primarily in our utility segment. A majority of our volume is driven from gas sales made to space heating residential and commercial customers during each winter heating season. Current utility rates are based on an assumption of average weather. Weather that is warmer than average typically results in lower gas sales. Sustained colder weather typically results in higher gas sales. Although the effects of warmer or colder weather on utility margin in Oregon are intended to be largely mitigated through the operation of our weather normalization mechanism, colder weather could adversely affect utility margin because we may be required to purchase gas at spot rates in a rising price market to secure sufficient volumes to meet customer requirements. Approxi mately 9 percent of our Oregon residential and commercial customers have opted out of the weather normalization mechanism and 10 percent of our customers are in Washington where we do not have a weather normalization mechanism. Furthermore, continuation of the weather normalization mechanism in Oregon after October 2012 is subject to regulatory approval. As a result, we may not be fully protected against warmer than average or colder than average weather, both of which may have an adverse affect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Customer conservation risk. Customers’ conservation efforts or a failure to renew our conservation tariff may have a negative impact on our revenues. An increasing national focus on energy conservation, including improved building practices and appliance efficiencies, may result in increased energy conservation by customers, which can decrease our sales of natural gas and adversely affect our results of operations. In Oregon, we have a conservation tariff which is designed to recover lost margin due to declines in residential and commercial customers’ consumption. The conservation tariff is scheduled to expire in October 2012. The failure of the OPUC to extend the conservation tariff in the future could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We do not have a conservation tariff in Washington. 25 Table of Contents Business improvements risk. Our efforts to integrate, consolidate and streamline our operations have resulted in increased reliance on technology, the failure of which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Over the last several years we have undertaken a variety of initiatives to integrate, standardize, centralize and streamline our operations. These efforts have resulted in greater reliance on technological tools such as: an enterprise resource planning system, which provides an integrated suite of business application software; an automated dispatch system, which provides integrated planning, scheduling and dispatching of field resources; an automated meter reading system, which allows for electronic reading of customers meters; and other similar technological tools and initiatives. The failure of any of these or other similarly important technologies, or our inability to have these technologies supported, updated, expanded or integ rated into other technologies, could adversely impact our operations. Although we have, when possible, developed alternative sources of technology and built redundancy into our computer networks and tools, there can be no assurance that these efforts to date would protect us against all potential issues or disaster occurrences related to the loss of any such technologies or their use. Risks Related Primarily to Our Gas Storage Business Long-term stabilization of gas price risk. Any significant stabilization of natural gas prices could have a negative impact on the demand for our natural gas storage services, which could adversely affect our financial results. Storage businesses benefit from price volatility, which impacts the level of demand for services and the rates that can be charged for storage services. On a system-wide basis, natural gas is typically injected into storage between April and October when natural gas prices are generally lower and withdrawn during the winter months of November through March when natural gas prices are typically higher. However, the market for natural gas may not continue to experience volatility and seasonal price sensitivity in the future at the levels previously seen. If price volatility and seasonal price sensitivity in the natural gas industry decrease because of increased production capacity or otherwise, then the demand for our storage services and the prices that we will be able to charge for those services may decline. A sustained decli ne in these prices could have an adverse affect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Natural gas storage competition risk. Increasing competition in the natural gas storage business could reduce the demand for our storage services and drive prices down for our storage business, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. Our natural gas storage segment competes primarily with other storage facilities and pipelines in the storage of natural gas. Natural gas storage is an increasingly competitive business, with ongoing and proposed third-party construction of new storage capacity and expansions of existing facilities in California, the U.S. Rocky Mountains and elsewhere in the United States and Canada. Increased competition in the natural gas storage business could reduce the demand for our natural gas storage services, drive prices down for our storage business, and adversely affect our ability to renew or replace existing contracts at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Third-party pipeline risk. Our gas storage business depends on third-party pipelines that connect to our gas storage facilities, the failure or unavailability of which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our gas storage facilities are reliant on the continued operation of a third-party pipeline and other facilities that provide delivery options to and from our storage facilities. Because we do not own all of these pipelines, their operation is not within our control. If the third-party pipeline to which we are connected were to become unavailable for current or future withdrawals or injections of natural gas due to repairs, damage to the infrastructure, lack of capacity or other reason, our ability to operate efficiently and satisfy our customers’ needs could be compromised, thereby potentially reducing our revenues and cash flows. 26 Table of Contents Commencement of operations at new storage facility risk. Commencement of operations at our new Gill Ranch storage facility involves numerous operational risks that may result in a failure to meet expectations or contractual obligations, additional or unexpected costs and other business risks that could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In October, 2010 we commenced operations at our Gill Ranch storage facility. Operations at a new storage facility involve many risks. Although we believe that Gill Ranch has been designed to meet our contractual obligations and project specifications with respect to injection, withdrawal and gas specifications, the facility is new and has a limited operating history. If we fail to achieve designed capacity, inject or withdraw natural gas at the levels we expect or at contracted rates, or cannot deliver natural gas consistent with our expectations or contractual specifications, or otherwise operate as expected, or if operating costs are substantially higher than we expect or if we fail to control those costs, we may not be able to co ntract for storage at the levels and on the terms we expect, and we could incur higher than expected costs to satisfy our contractual obligations under contracts we obtain and this could adversely impact our results of operations or cash flows. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have no unresolved comments. 