Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below before investing in our common stock. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. In that case, the value of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business Reliance on Independent Distributors. The success of our business depends, in large part, upon the establishment and maintenance of a strong distribution network. Although we believe that the business associated with any of our primary distributors can be readily transferred to other distributors or directly to supermarket warehouses if necessary, no assurance can be given that a change in distributors would not be disruptive to our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Dependence on Key Suppliers. We do not produce any of our own products. During the years ended January 2, 2010 and December 27, 2008, we purchased approximately 28% and 30%, of our finished goods, respectively, from Ice Cream Specialties, our primary frozen dessert novelty co-packer; 7% and 8%, respectively, from Leiby’s Dairy, Inc, our frozen dessert pint co-packer; 19% and 18%, respectively, from Franklin Foods, our BETTER THAN CREAM CHEESE and SOUR SUPREME co-packer; and 6% and 6% respectively, from Old Fashioned Kitchen, Inc., our blintz co-packer. These producers are required to comply with FDA regulations relating to the production of food products. Although we believe that there will be no problem in continuing to obtain finished goods from our current or alternative sources in the future, any disruption in supply could have a material adverse effect on our company. 9 Our Business May Be Negatively Affected by the Current Global Credit Crisis. The current economic climate, and particularly the increased difficulty in securing credit, could impact the ability of our customers to purchase our products. Certain of our retail customers who have seen significant dampening of consumer demand, could face increased financial pressures that could impact their ability to purchase our products and make payments in a timely manner. The extent of the impact, if any, of the global credit crisis, will depend on a number of factors, including whether the U.S. economy, and the global economy generally, enter into a prolonged recession as a result of the deterioration of the credit markets. A Material Change in Consumer Demand for Our Products Could Have a Significant Impact on Our Business. We are a consumer food products company and rely on continued demand for our products. To achieve business goals, we must develop and sell products that appeal to consumers. If demand and growth rates fall substantially below expected levels or our market share declines significantly in these businesses, our results could be negatively impacted. This could occur due to unforeseen negative economic or political events or to changes in consumer trends and habits. Our Business Faces Cost Pressures Which Could Affect Our Business Results. Our costs are subject to fluctuations, particularly due to changes in commodity prices, raw materials, cost of labor, foreign exchange and interest rates. Therefore, our success is dependent, in part, on our continued ability to manage these fluctuations through pricing actions, cost savings projects and sourcing decisions. In the manufacturing and general overhead areas, we need to maintain key manufacturing and supply arrangements, including any key sole supplier and manufacturing plant arrangements. We Face Risks Related to the Current Credit Crisis. The current uncertainty in the global economic conditions resulting from the recent disruption in credit markets pose a risk to the overall economy that could impact consumer and customer demand for our products, as well as our ability to manage normal commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers and creditors. If the current situation deteriorates significantly, our business could be negatively impacted, including such areas as reduced demand for our products from a slow-down in the general economy, or supplier or customer disruptions resulting from tighter credit markets. Competitive Environment. The frozen dessert and health food markets are highly competitive. The ability to successfully introduce innovative products on a periodic basis that are accepted by the marketplace is a significant competitive factor. In addition, many of our principal competitors are large, diversified companies with resources significantly greater than ours. We expect strong competition to continue, including competition for adequate distribution and competition for the limited shelf space for the frozen dessert category in supermarkets and other retail food outlets. Dependence on Key Customers. During the fiscal years ended January 2, 2010 and December 27, 2008, Trader Joe’s accounted for 17% and 19% of our net sales, respectively. In addition, a significant portion of our sales are to several key distributors, which are large distribution companies with numerous divisions and subsidiaries who act independently. Such distributors as a group accounted for 29% of our net sales for the fiscal year ended January 2, 2010 and 31% of our net sales for the fiscal year ended December 27, 2008. The loss of a substantial portion of our sales to Trader Joe’s would have a material adverse affect on our company. 10 The Absence of Patent Protection Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations. We rely upon the confidentiality of our formulas and our know-how rather than upon patent protection since patent protection may not be available for the recipes or manufacturing processes for any of our food products. There is no assurance that such confidentiality can or will be maintained or that our know-how cannot be obtained by others or that others do not now possess similar or even more effective capabilities. The failure to maintain the confidentiality of our know-how could adversely effect our operating results. Product Liability Suits, if Brought, Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business. From time to time in the normal course of our business, we become subject to product liability claims. If a product liability claim exceeding our insurance coverage were to be successfully asserted against us, it could harm our business. We cannot assure you that such coverage will be sufficient to insure against claims which may be brought against us, or that we will be able to maintain such insurance or obtain additional insurance covering existing or new products. As a marketer of food products, we are subject to the risk of claims for product liability. We maintain general product liability and umbrella insurance coverages and generally require that our c o-packers maintain product liability insurance with us as a co-insured. Similarly, most of our customers require us to name them as additional insureds as well, and in some cases we are required to sign hold harmless agreements. Continuing Need to Introduce New Products. The successful introduction of innovative products on a periodic basis has become increasingly important to our sales growth. Accordingly, the future degree of market acceptance of any of our new products, which may be accompanied by significant promotional expenditures, is likely to have an important impact on our future financial results. Our Operating Results Vary Quarterly and Seasonally. We have often recognized a slightly greater portion of revenues in the second and third quarter of the year. Our expense levels are substantially based on our expectations for future revenues and are therefore relatively fixed in the short-term. If revenue levels fall below expectations, our quarterly results are likely to be disproportionately adversely affected because a proportionately smaller amount of our expenses vary with our revenues. We expect to continue to experience slightly higher sales in the second and third quarters, and slightly lower sales in the fourth and first quarters, as a result of reduced sales of nondairy frozen desserts. Sales to our major customers fluctuate widely from period to period and there is no way to accurately predict that their sales pattern from one year will be repeated in the corresponding period of the next fiscal year. Due to the foregoing factors, in some future quarter our operating results may be below the expectations of investors. In such event, it is likely that the price of our common stock would be materially adversely affected. Reliance on a Limited Number of Key Personnel. Our success is significantly dependent on the services of David Mintz (age 78), Chief Executive Officer, and Steven Kass (age 58), Chief Financial Officer. The loss of the services of either of these persons could have a material adverse effect on our business. Control of the Company. Our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, David Mintz, holds 2,630,440 shares of common stock representing approximately 50.8% of the outstanding shares, permitting him to elect all members of the Board of Directors and thereby effectively control the business, policies and management of our company. We are Subject to Risks Associated with International Operations. In fiscal 2009 approximately 11% of our revenues were from international sales. Although we continue to expand our international operations, we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain or increase international market demand for our products. To the extent that we cannot do so in a timely manner, our business, operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected. International operations are subject to inherent risks, including the following: 11 · the impact of possible recessionary environments in multiple foreign markets; · longer receivables collection periods and greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection; · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; · potentially adverse tax consequences; and · political and economic instability. We May Be Adversely Affected by Fluctuations in Currency Exchange Rates. Our foreign transactions are always in U.S. dollars, and to date we have not engaged in any currency hedging transactions intended to reduce the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on our results of operations. Therefore, our future export sales could be adversely affected by an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar, which could increase the local currency price of our products. Although exposure to currency fluctuations to date has not had a material adverse effect on our business, there can be no assurance such fluctuations in the future will not have a material adverse effect on revenues from international sales and, consequently, our business, operating results and financial condit ion. Our Stock Price is Subject to Volatility. The market price of our common stock has been subject to fluctuations in the past and may be subject to wide fluctuations in the future in response to announcements concerning us or our competitors, quarterly variations in operating results, the introduction of new products or changes in product pricing policies by us or our competitors, general market conditions in the industry, developments in the financial markets and other factors. We Do Not Intend to Pay Cash Dividends. Our policy is to retain earnings, if any, for use in our business and, for this reason, we do not intend to pay cash dividends on our shares of common stock in the foreseeable future. We May Fail to Maintain Effective Internal Controls in Accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, Which Could Have an Adverse Effect on our Financial Results and the Market Price of Our Ordinary Shares. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposes certain duties on us and our executives and directors. Our efforts to comply with the requirements of Section 404 have resulted in increased general and administrative expense and a diversion of management time and attention, and we expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of resources. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires us to provide management’s annual review and evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and in future years a statement by management that its independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report on our internal control over financial reporting, in connection with the filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for each fiscal year. The rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess our internal control over financial reporting are complex and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation to meet the detailed standards under the rules. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could result in investigation or sanctions by regulatory authorities, and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, investor confidence in our reported financial information, and the market price of our ordinary shares. 12 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 