ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Industry: Failure to comply with the extensive regulatory requirements for school operations could result in financial penalties, restrictions on our operations, loss of federal financial aid funding for our students, or loss of our authorization to operate our school. As a provider of higher education services, we are subject to extensive state and federal regulation. In particular, the Higher Education Act, as reauthorized by the HEOA in August 2008, and related regulations impose significant regulatory scrutiny, including detailed substantive and reporting requirements, on Broadview University and all other higher education institutions that participate in the various federal student financial aid programs under Title IV. The Higher Education Act allocates regulatory responsibility for these programs among (1) the federal government through the USDE, (2) the institutional accrediting agencies recognized by the U.S. Secretary of Education, and (3) state education regulatory bodies. The regulations, standards and policies of these agencies are subject to frequent change and interpretation, which could have a material adverse effect on our accreditation, authorization to operate in various states, permissible activities, receipt of funds under Title IV programs, or costs of doing business. We cannot predict with certainty how all of the requirements applied by these agencies will be interpreted or whether we will be able to comply with these requirements in the future. If we are found to be in noncompliance with any of these regulations, standards or policies, any one of the relevant regulatory agencies may do one or more of the following: · impose monetary fines or penalties; · limit or terminate our operations or ability to grant degrees or diplomas; · restrict or revoke our accreditation, licensure or other approval to operate; · limit, suspend or terminate our eligibility to participate in Title IV programs or state financial aid programs; · require repayment of funds received under Title IV programs or other financial aid programs; · require us to post a letter of credit with the USDE; · subject us to other civil or criminal penalties; and/or · subject us to other forms of censure. In August 2010, the U.S. Secretary of Education announced plans to increase the number of program reviews by 50% to 300 in 2011. Broadview University is currently not under a program review, nor have we been notified of any program review scheduled in the future. We cannot predict if or when such a program review would be performed, nor what the results would be. If a program review found that we are not complying with Title IV regulations, the USDE could impose sanctions or conditions that could have a material adverse effect on our business. 22 Our nursing program operated out of our West Jordan campus voluntarily ceased enrolling new students effective November 2011, in response to a warning letter from the Utah State Board of Nursing stating that our nursing graduates’ average pass rate on the National Council Licensure Examination (“NCLEX”) was not meeting required regulatory levels set by the Utah Administrative Code. In a Memorandum of Understanding and Order (“MOU”) from the State of Utah Department of Commerce’s Division of Occupational and Professional Licensing (“the Licensing Division”) dated December 9, 2011, we agreed to disciplinary action which placed our nursing program under a probationary period of three years from the date of the MOU, and required us to write a remediation plan to address deficiencies in our program which may be contributing to the low test scores. Under the terms of the MOU probationary period, failure of one cohort testing class to achieve satisfactory NCLEX scores gave the Licensing Division the right to implement further sanctions against Broadview, including immediate cessation of the nursing program. During the probationary period, we had a cohort testing class fail to attain the required pass rate on the NCLEX exam. On May 31, 2012, we received formal communication from the Licensing Division that Broadview would be allowed to teach out its remaining nursing students through September 2013, so long as the program continues to meet all requirements of the MOU. However, Broadview is prohibited from enrolling any new nursing students, and thus, our nursing program will cease operations upon completion of the teach-out period, or at any date prior to September 2013 should any remaining cohort fail to meet required test scores. This action will adversely impact our revenues, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Broadview had 87 nursing students enrolled for our quarter ended March 31, 2012 (7.8% of total enrollments), compared to 158 students for our quarter ended March 31, 2011 (12.2% of total enrollments). Rulemaking by the USDE could result in regulatory changes that may have a material adverse effect on our business. The USDE issued on October 28, 2010 final rules that address program integrity issues for post-secondary education institutions participating in Title IV programs, most of which took effect on July 1, 2011. See “Government Approvals and Effect of Governmental Regulations” in Item I, Part I of this Report for greater detail and analysis of these rules. We cannot predict the scope, content or effect of certain proposed regulations for which the USDE has not issued final rules. Under the recently finalized rules, if a particular program does not meet the USDE standards of “gainful employment,” the program could be subject to increased disclosure requirements, limits on enrollment, termination of Title IV eligibility, and/or other consequences. In addition, the continuing eligibility of our educational programs for Title IV funding would be at risk due to factors beyond our control, such as changes in the income level of our graduates, increases in interest rates, changes in the federal poverty income level relevant for calculating discretionary income, changes in the percentage of our former students who are currently in repayment of their student loans, and other factors. Adoption of the final regulations could result in a significant realignment of the types of educational programs that are offered by Broadview University and other proprietary institutions in order to comply with the rules. Such realignment could have a material negative impact on our student enrollments, both immediately and over time. Uncertainty surrounding the final rules, interpretive regulations or guidance by the USDE may continue into the near future, and the uncertainty alone may adversely affect our business. 23 Any action by Congress that significantly reduces Title IV program funding or the ability of Broadview University or its students to participate in Title IV programs could have a material adverse effect on our business. Congress reauthorizes the Higher Education Act every six years. Additionally, Congress determines the funding level for each Title IV program on an annual basis. Any action by Congress that significantly reduces funding for Title IV programs or limits the ability of Broadview University or our students to participate in these programs could have a material adverse impact on our business. A reduction in government funding could lead to lower enrollments and require our students to find alternative sources of financial aid. As of March 31, 2012, approximately 92% of our students received some form of Title IV program funds. Legislative action may also require Broadview University to modify its practices for the school to comply fully with applicable requirements. In 2010, Congress invested significant time discussing and evaluating the for-profit education industry’s participation in Title IV programs, as well as U.S. Department of Defense oversight of tuition assistance for military service members attending for-profit colleges. Congressional committees have held hearings on a number of industry-related topics, including accrediting agency standards, credit hours, length of academic programs, and other related matters. The U.S. Government Accountability Office (“GAO”) has issued several reports critical of for-profit post-secondary education in recent years, citing instances of deceptive statements made by employees to prospective students at a sample of proprietary institutions. The GAO was also critical of the USDE’s enforcement of incentive compensation rules, the student experience and instructor performance at some for-profit online institutions, and student outcomes across several institutions of higher learning. This increased governmental scrutiny is ongoing and expected to continue for the foreseeable future. It could result in additional legislation or future rulemaking affecting Title IV participation by institutions such as Broadview University. If we fail to maintain our institutional accreditation through ACICS, or if ACICS loses recognition by the USDE, we would lose our ability to participate in Title IV programs. ACICS is a national accrediting agency recognized by the U.S. Secretary of Education as a reliable authority on educational quality for institutions such as Broadview University. Institutional accreditation by a national or regional accrediting agency is required by the USDE for us to remain eligible to participate in Title IV programs. The loss of accreditation would, among other consequences, render Broadview University ineligible to participate in Title IV programs, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. ACICS is also able to impose other penalties or issue warnings or other forms of censure that could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Loss of Broadview University’s state authorizations could prevent us from offering certain programs, operating our campuses, or affect our ability to participate in Title IV programs in the states we currently operate or may operate in the future. A school that grants degrees, diplomas or certificates must be authorized by the relevant education agency of the state in which it is located. Broadview University is currently authorized in the states of Utah and Idaho to offer our programs. State registration is also required by the USDE to participate in Title IV programs. The loss of state authorization would, among other things, render Broadview University ineligible to participate in Title IV programs in a state where such authorization was lost, and would limit or prevent us from operating in that state, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 24 The revised USDE rules specify that an institution offering distance post-secondary education must meet any state requirements for it to be legally offering post-secondary distance or correspondence education in that state. On April 20, 2011, the USDE issued a “Dear Colleague Letter” clarifying enforcement of state authorization of online programs. In order to avoid adverse action by the USDE, institutions must be making good faith efforts to identify and obtain necessary state authorizations before July 1, 2014. As of the date of this Report, the USDE has faced significant legal challenge as to its ability to enforce such regulations, and the final outcome of such challenges are not known to management. We have begun a process for identifying and obtaining required state authorizations and believe that we are acting in good faith to comply with the new rules. However, due to the unsettled legal status of the new regulations, we cannot predict what impact any modifications to the rules as currently proposed may have on our operations. If Broadview University fails to obtain recertification by the USDE when required, we would lose our ability to participate in Title IV programs. An institution generally must seek recertification from the USDE at least once every six years, and possibly more frequently if circumstances dictate. The USDE may withdraw our certification if it determines that we are not fulfilling material requirements for continued participation in Title IV programs. Each institution participating in Title IV programs must enter into a Program Participation Agreement with the USDE. Under such an agreement, the institution agrees to follow the USDE’s rules and regulations governing Title IV programs. Broadview University’s current Program Participation Agreement will expire on March 31, 2014, assuming compliance with the agreement’s terms. Broadview will apply for recertification prior to the deadline for the application, which is December 31, 2013. Broadview University may lose its eligibility to participate in Title IV programs if its student loan default rates are greater than the standards set by the USDE. In general, under the Higher Education Act, an educational institution may lose its eligibility to participate in Title IV programs if, for three consecutive federal fiscal years, 25% or more of its students who were required to begin repaying their student loans in the relevant federal fiscal year default on their payments by the end of the next fiscal year. An institution whose default rate is greater than 40% in any one federal fiscal year may also lose its Title IV eligibility. Broadview University has implemented a student loan default management program aimed at reducing the likelihood of our students’ failure to repay their loans in a timely manner. Broadview University’s cohort default rates on Title IV program loans for the 2009, 2008, and 2007 federal fiscal years were 12.2%, 4.3% and 6.2%, respectively. The average cohort default rates for proprietary institutions nationally were 15.0%, 11.6% and 11.0% for federal fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The current cohort default rate calculation and threshold for regulatory sanctions will change effective 2014, whereby the period for measuring defaults will be expanded by one year and the threshold of 25% noted above will be increased to 30%, among other changes as disclosed in “Government Approvals and Effect of Governmental Regulations” in Item I, Part I of this Report. If Broadview University were ineligible to participate in Title IV programs due to non-compliance with current or future measurements of cohort default rates, this would have a material adverse effect on our business. 25 Failure to demonstrate “administrative capability” or “financial responsibility” as defined by the USDE may result in the loss of eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. We may, among other consequences, be required to post a letter of credit or accept other limitations to continue our participation in Title IV programs if we do not meet the USDE’s financial responsibility standards or if we do not correctly calculate and timely return Title IV program funds for students who withdraw before completing their program of study. Losing our Title IV eligibility or having it adversely conditioned would have a material adverse effect on our business. As disclosed under the “Financial Responsibility Standards” sub-section of the Government Approvals and Effect of Governmental Regulations section in Item 1 of Part I in this Report, our composite score as of and for the year ended March 31, 2012 was 1.3, which is below the minimum score of 1.5 required by the USDE for an institution to be considered fiscally responsible, according to the USDE’s definition. As such, we will be subject to increased monitoring of our operations, as well as heightened cash management policies and procedures for our administration of Title IV funds. As of the date of this Report, management has not received definitive instructions from the USDE regarding what course of action the USDE will choose. We anticipate we will receive definitive instructions from the USDE during our second fiscal quarter ending September 30, 2012. If the Company fails to satisfy the USDE’s financial responsibility standards, our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected, should the Company not have adequate resources to meet the USDE’s letter of credit requirements. We cannot offer new programs if such offerings are not timely approved by the USDE and state and accrediting regulators, as applicable. We may have to repay Title IV program funds disbursed to students enrolled in a new program if the Company does not obtain prior approval from the USDE and state and accrediting regulators, as applicable. We could lose our eligibility to participate in Title IV programs or be provisionally certified with respect to our participation in such programs if the percentage of our revenues derived from those programs were too high. Under the 90/10 Rule, a proprietary institution may lose its Title IV eligibility if, on a cash accounting basis, it derived more than 90% of its revenues from Title IV programs for any fiscal year, as defined in accordance with applicable USDE regulations for Title IV programs. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, Broadview University derived 79% of its revenues from Title IV programs based on the USDE’s required calculations. We closely monitor our compliance with this requirement on an ongoing basis. If we lose our eligibility to participate in Title IV programs because more than 90% of our revenues are derived from Title IV program funds in any year, our students would no longer be eligible to receive Title IV program funds under various government-sponsored financial aid programs, which would significantly reduce our enrollments and revenues and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 26 We are subject to sanctions if we fail to calculate accurately and make timely payment of refunds of Title IV program funds for students who withdraw before completing their educational program. The Higher Education Act and USDE regulations require us to calculate refunds of unearned Title IV program funds disbursed to students who withdraw from school before completion of their educational program. If refunds are not properly calculated or paid in a timely manner, we may be required to post a letter of credit with the USDE or be subject to sanctions or other adverse actions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Failure to comply with USDE incentive compensation rules could result in sanctions against Broadview University. We are subject to sanctions if payments of impermissible commissions, bonuses or other incentive payments are made to the individuals involved in certain recruiting, admissions, or financial aid activities. If we were found to violate standards related to payment of commissions, bonuses and other incentive payments, the USDE could impose monetary fines, penalties or other sanctions on the Company that may have a material adverse effect on our business. Investigations, claims, and actions against the Company and other companies in our industry could adversely affect our business and stock price. In recent years, the operations of a number of companies in the education and training services industry have been subject to intense regulatory scrutiny. In some cases, allegations of wrongdoing on the part of such companies have resulted in formal or informal investigations by the U.S. Department of Justice, the SEC, state governmental agencies and USDE. These allegations have attracted adverse media coverage and have been the subject of legislative hearings and regulatory actions at both the federal and state levels, focusing not only on the individual schools but in some cases on the for-profit postsecondary education sector as a whole. Even if the Company satisfactorily resolves any such investigations, claims and actions, we may have to expend substantial resources to address and defend those claims or actions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. General credit market conditions related to the student loan industry may result in fewer lenders and loan products and increased regulatory costs. The HEOA contains new requirements pertinent to relationships between lenders and institutions such as Broadview University. On October 28, 2009, the USDE issued final regulations implementing certain HEOA provisions related to preferred lender lists and preferred lender arrangements. The new regulations regarding preferred lender lists, which were effective July 1, 2010, are largely comparable to those in the USDE’s current regulations, with the exceptions being that the new regulations also address private as well as federal loan lenders. These and other legislative and regulatory developments as well as general credit market conditions may cause some lenders to decide not to participate in certain federal loan programs and may impose increased costs on the Company. 27 Our industry may be adversely affected by general economic conditions in the U.S. or abroad. The U.S. economy and the economies of other key industrialized countries have been in a recession as characterized by reduced economic activity, increased unemployment and substantial uncertainty about their financial services markets. In addition, homeowners in the U.S. have experienced an unprecedented reduction in wealth due to the decline in residential real estate values across much of the country. These events may reduce the demand for our programs among students, the willingness of employers to sponsor educational opportunities for their employees, and the ability of our students to find employment in their chosen area of study, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, these events could adversely affect the ability or willingness of our former students to repay student loans, which could increase our student loan cohort default rate and require increased time, attention and resources to manage these defaults. Risks Related to Our Business: Our financial performance depends, in part, on our ability to update and expand our academic programs and keep pace with changing market needs and technology. Prospective employers of our graduates increasingly demand that their entry-level employees possess appropriate technological skills. Our educational programs must keep pace with these evolving requirements. If we cannot respond to changes in industry requirements, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. High interest rates could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain students because the cost of education may be unaffordable for students. Changes in credit requirements may impact current or prospective students’ ability to obtain financing for the cost of education. Our growth rate is uncertain, and we may not be able to assess our future growth prospects effectively. If we fail to effectively identify, establish, and operate new branch campuses of Broadview University, our growth may be slowed and our profitability may be adversely affected. Our ability to continue with our growth model is dependent on a number of factors, including our ability to obtain timely regulatory approvals, identify geographical locations that have appropriate population demographics, and recruit and retain high-quality academic and administrative personnel. We have opened four branch campuses since January 2007, including two in the last six months of fiscal year 2011. The opening of two campuses in such a short timeframe had a negative impact on our profitability, and these campuses may continue to negatively impact our earnings until their student populations grow. Additionally, as with many other institutions in our industry, we have experienced a recent decrease in inquiries from prospective students. Certain factors that can impact lead counts are within our control, such as resources we devote to admissions and recruiting, as well as ensuring that we are offering programs that are in demand. However, certain factors are not under our control, such as new or pending legislation or regulatory rulings. In view of these factors, there is uncertainty as to whether our growth rate will improve in the immediate future. There can be no assurance that we will be able to establish additional campuses, or that new campuses will achieve profitable student enrollment levels. We are committed to a growth model of opening new campuses organically rather than through acquisition of existing schools. 28 We operate in a highly competitive industry. The postsecondary education market is highly competitive. We compete with traditional public and private two-year and four-year colleges and universities and other proprietary schools, including those that offer fully online programs. Some public and private colleges and universities, as well as other private career-oriented schools, may offer programs similar to ours. Although tuition at private nonprofit institutions is, on average, higher than tuition at Broadview University, some public institutions are able to charge lower tuition than Broadview University, due in part to government subsidies, government and foundation grants, tax-deductible contributions and other financial sources not available to proprietary schools. Some of our competitors in both the public and private sectors have substantially greater financial and other resources than Broadview University. Our success depends in part on our ability to market Broadview University to prospective students. Our financial performance depends, in part, on our ability to continue to develop awareness and acceptance of our school and programs among high school graduates and working adults. Broadview University uses its own admissions teams and markets its courses through print, television, radio, Internet and telemarketing outlets. Broadview University maintains booths and information tables at appropriate conferences, expos and other events in the communities where it operates. The satisfaction of our students with our delivery of academic services is also a key element in cultivating our brand to prospective students. Customer dissatisfaction with our services or programs could lead to declining enrollments. The loss of our key personnel could harm our business. Our success depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified faculty, campus administrators and management. We may have difficulty locating, hiring and retaining qualified personnel. The loss of services of key personnel, or failure to attract and retain other qualified and experienced personnel, could cause our business to suffer. We operate pursuant to a Service Level Agreement with GU/MSB and are substantially dependent upon GU/MSB for support services, the loss of which could have a significant negative impact on our operations. Broadview University utilizes executive, administrative, accounting and consulting services provided by GU/MSB pursuant to a SLA between the Company and GU/MSB. Some of the services provided by GU/MSB under this arrangement include chief executive and chief financial officer services, information technology support, finance and accounting services, human resources support, student financial aid consulting and curriculum consulting. The Company currently pays GU/MSB $75,000 per month for such services. If GU/MSB were to terminate the SLA or discontinue providing services to us, we may be unable to find another party to provide such services at a reasonable cost or may be unable to cost-effectively perform such services ourselves, which may have a significant adverse effect on our business. 29 Our student population and revenues could decrease if the government tuition assistance offered to U.S. Armed Forces personnel is reduced or eliminated, or if our informal relationship with any military facilities is diminished. Active duty members of the U.S. Armed Forces are eligible to receive tuition assistance from the government, which may be used to pursue post-secondary degrees. We offer scholarships to all members of the U.S. Armed Forces and certain immediate family members or dependents of active-duty personnel. Some of our campuses are located in close proximity to military facilities, and service members and their families represented approximately 18% of the total enrolled students at Broadview University during our quarter ended March 31, 2012. In the event that the above governmental tuition assistance programs are reduced or eliminated, this could have a material adverse effect on our business. The Company’s computer networks may be vulnerable to system disruptions, unauthorized access, computer viruses, and other security threats. The performance and reliability of our computer networks is critical to our ability to attract and retain students. Any system error or failure could result in disruption of our educational services. Additionally, a user who circumvents security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations. Due to the sensitive nature of the information contained on our networks, our networks may be targeted by hackers. As a result, we may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of these security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches. Regulatory requirements may make it more difficult to acquire us. A change in control resulting from a change in ownership of the Company would trigger a requirement for recertification of Broadview University by the USDE for purposes of participation in federal student financial aid programs, a review of Broadview University’s accreditation by ACICS and reauthorization of Broadview University by certain state licensing and other regulatory agencies. If any of these reviews or approvals were significantly delayed, limited or denied, there could be a material adverse effect on our ability to offer certain educational programs, award certain degrees, diplomas or certificates, operate one or more of our branch campuses, admit certain students or participate in Title IV programs. Risk Related to Our Common Stock: Our largest shareholder holds a significant portion of our outstanding equity and may have substantial influence over the Company and his interests may not be aligned with the interests of our other shareholders. Mr. Myhre, chairman of our board of directors, beneficially owned approximately 63% of our outstanding common stock as of the date of this Report. As such, Mr. Myhre has substantial influence over our business, including decisions regarding mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. This concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of the Company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of the Company and might negatively impact the price of our common stock. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other shareholders, and may have an adverse effect on our operations and the value of our common stock. 30 The trading price of the Company’s common stock may fluctuate substantially as a result of a number of factors, many of which are not in our control. Historically, public companies in our industry have experienced relatively high volatility in stock price. Any number of factors may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance, and could prevent an investor from selling shares of our common stock at or above the price at which such shares were purchased. Some of these factors include: ● our ability to meet or exceed our own forecasts or expectations of analysts or investors; ● quarterly variations in our operating results; ● changes in the legal or regulatory environment in which we operate; ● general conditions in the for-profit, post-secondary education industry, including changes in federal and state laws and regulations and accreditation standards; ● the initiation, pendency, or outcome of litigation, regulatory reviews, and investigations, including any adverse publicity related thereto; ● price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market; ● loss of key personnel; and ● general economic conditions. Our stock price has, and we expect it to continue to, fluctuate significantly, and the value of your investment may decline. From April 1, 2010 to March 31, 2012, the market price of our common stock has ranged from a high of $3.59 per share to a low of $0.15 per share. The volatile price of our stock makes it difficult for investors to predict the value of their investment, to sell shares at a profit at any given time, or to plan purchases and sales in advance. You might not be able to sell your shares of common stock at or above the existing trading price due to fluctuations in the market price of the common stock arising from changes in our operating performance or prospects. In addition, the stock markets in general have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Because our common stock is primarily traded on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board, the volume of shares traded and the prices at which such shares trade may result in lower prices than might otherwise exist if our common stock was traded on a national securities exchange. Stocks traded on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board are often less liquid than stocks traded on national securities exchanges, not only in terms of the number of shares that can be bought and sold at a given price, but also in terms of delays in the timing of transactions and reduced coverage of such stocks by security analysts and the media. This may result in lower prices for our common stock than might otherwise be obtained if our common stock were traded on a national securities exchange, and could also result in a larger spread between the bid and ask prices for our common stock. 31 Because we do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock, you will not realize any income from an investment in our common stock unless and until you sell your shares at profit. We have not paid dividends on our common stock since 1991 and do not anticipate paying any dividends in the near future. You should not rely on an investment in our stock if you require dividend income. Further, you will only realize income on an investment in our shares in the event you sell or otherwise dispose of your shares at a price higher than the price you paid for your shares. Such a gain would result only from an increase in the market price of our common stock, which is uncertain and unpredictable. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no SEC staff comments on the Company’s periodic SEC reports which are unresolved. 