Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company's reports filed from time to time pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, include certain forward-looking statements. Like any company subject to a competitive and changing business environment, the Company cannot guarantee the results predicted in any of the Company's forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include the following: The Company depends on the development, manufacture and marketing of new products for its future success. The Company's future success is largely dependent upon its ability to develop, manufacture and market commercially successful new products. Generally, the successful commercial marketing of the Company's products depends on completing the following steps in a time frame to allow the Company to be among the first to market a particular product: developing and testing the product; proving that the product is safe and effective; and filing for and receiving regulatory approvals to manufacture and sell the product in a timely manner. Through its Exclusive License Agreement with IDEA, which was entered into in September 2007, the Company's subsidiary, Alpharma Ireland Limited, agreed that IDEA will conduct the clinical development and testing of its licensed product candidate, ketoprofen in TRANSFERSOME gel in order to obtain FDA approval for it. The prospects and timing of FDA approval of ketoprofen in TRANSFERSOME gel will depend, in large part, upon the efforts of IDEA in executing the mutually agreed clinical and regulatory plan. There can be no assurance that ketoprofen in TRANSFERSOME gel will ever be approved by the FDA, in which case, the Company would receive no return on its investment in the product candidate. Delays in the development, manufacture or marketing of new products will impact the Company's expenses and revenues. The Company cannot be sure that any product presently going through the process set forth above, or which may be chosen by the Company to enter this process in the future, will result in the timely and profitable commercial launch of a new product. Research and development expenditures will negatively impact the Company's earnings in the short term, and there is no guarantee of success. The Company, in its continuing businesses, expended approximately $140.3 million, including the $60.0 million upfront payment to IDEA, $44.4 million and $26.9 million on research and development efforts in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The Company expects its total research and development spending in 2008, including potential product licensing milestone payments (including $77 million in potential payments for ketoprofen in TRANSFERSOME gel) to be 10 to 20% higher than 2007. Such research and development expenditures will reduce the Company's earnings in the short term. Further, the Company cannot be sure that its research and development expenditures will, in the long term, result in the commercialization of products that prove to be economically successful. The Company's marketing and promotional activities and price reporting are subject to significant government regulations. Failure to comply with such regulations could result in adverse consequences including limiting the Company's ability to sell or market its products, damaging its business reputation and affecting its financial condition. The FDA regulates pharmaceutical promotional materials and requires that such materials be accurate, present full disclosure of product risks, be fairly balanced and be consistent with the approved product label. While the FDA approves labeling of pharmaceutical products, physicians are not limited to FDA approved indications or conditions of use when prescribing a drug. Such "off-label" prescribing is permissible, but the FDA restricts communications made by or on behalf of pharmaceutical companies relating to such off-label use. The Company could be subject to enforcement by the FDA or other applicable regulatory authorities if it fails to comply with the FDA's regulations in this area. Additionally, the Company's promotional and marketing activities are subject to complex federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse. These include false claims laws, which prohibit, among other things, causing false claims to be submitted to government healthcare programs, and healthcare anti-kickback statutes, which prohibit offering or paying remuneration to prescribers, purchasers, or formulary managers to induce them to purchase, prescribe, or recommend a government-reimbursable product. In recent years, a number of pharmaceutical manufacturers have been prosecuted under these laws for a variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities. Failure to comply with these laws is punishable by criminal and civil sanctions including exclusion of the manufacturer's products from reimbursement under federal and state healthcare programs, civil and criminal fines, and imprisonment of individuals. Manufacturers of marketed pharmaceuticals are also required to calculate and submit pricing data to various federal government agencies and certain states as a condition of having their drugs covered under government programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. These prices are used by the programs to set reimbursement rates for the manufacturer's products and/or to calculate manufacturer discounts to the programs. The rules governing the calculation of these reported prices are complex. It is possible that the Company's methodologies for calculating these prices could be challenged under false claims laws or other laws. If the Company fails to comply with applicable laws and regulations relating to promotional materials, marketing activities, and price reporting, it could face enforcement actions by the FDA, the Department of Justice, the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services, state Attorneys General and other enforcement authorities that could have a material adverse effect on the Company, including limiting the Company's ability to sell or market its products, subjecting the Company to potential criminal prosecution, damaging the Company's business reputation and affecting its financial condition through significant penalties. The Company is subject to government regulations and actions that increase the Company's costs and could prevent it from marketing and selling some of its products in certain countries. The research, development, manufacturing and marketing of the Company's products are subject to extensive government regulation. Government regulation includes inspection of and controls over testing, manufacturing, safety, efficacy, labeling, record keeping, pricing, sale and distribution of pharmaceutical products. While the Company does not keep records that segregate the cost of compliance with these government regulations, in the aggregate, such regulations substantially increase the cost of manufacturing, developing and selling the Company's products. The U.S. and other governments regularly review manufacturing operations, including API's plants in Oslo, Copenhagen and Budapest and AH's plants in the U.S., where products for the U.S. and other regulated markets are, or are intended to be, manufactured. These reviews have in the past and may in the future result in regulatory concerns requiring a response by the Company. Failure to adequately address these concerns could have a material adverse effect on the Company, including product approval delays, reduced production and production interruptions, among other things. The significance of the effect of any such failures depends on the severity of the remedy chosen by the government agency. Non-compliance with applicable requirements can result in fines, recall or seizure of products, suspension of production or distribution and debarment of individuals from providing services to drug companies in any capacity or debarment of the Company from obtaining new d rug approvals, resulting in current charges to income and the potential for future loss of income and increased operating expenses. In recent years, besides stepped up enforcement of cGMP requirements, the U.S. government has utilized equitable disgorgement as a means of enforcing compliance with the FDA's cGMP regulations. There can be no assurance that the FDA would not seek to impose similar sanctions on the Company and any such sanction could have a significant effect on the Company's business and operations. In addition, continuing studies of the proper utilization, safety and efficacy of pharmaceuticals and other health care products are continually being conducted by the industry, government agencies (including studies required to be performed from time to time by the pharmaceutical company marketing a particular drug) and others. These studies, which increasingly employ more sophisticated methods and techniques, can question the safety and efficacy of currently marketed products and in some cases have resulted, and may in the future result, in the discontinuance of their marketing and, in certain countries, give rise to claims for damages from persons who believe they have been injured as a result of their use. An expansion of the ban of the use of antibiotics used in food-producing animals could result in a decrease in the Company's total sales. The issue of the potential transfer of increased bacterial resistance to certain antibiotics used in certain food-producing animals to human pathogens is the subject of discussions on a worldwide basis and, in certain instances, has led to government restrictions on the use of antibiotics in these food-producing animals. While most of the government activity in this area has involved products other than those that the Company offers for sale, the European Union and a number of non-EU countries, including Norway and Turkey, banned the use of zinc bacitracin, a feed antibiotic growth promoter manufactured by the Company and others that has been used in livestock feeds for over 40 years, as a feed additive growth promoter. The Company has not sold this product as a feed additive growth promoter in these countries since the bans took effect (initially in the EU in July 1999; in Turkey, Bulgaria and Romania, (the latter two now part of the EU) in 2000; and in N orway in January 2006). The EU ban is based upon the "Precautionary Principle", which states that a product may be withdrawn from the market based upon a finding of a potential threat of serious or irreversible damage even if such finding is not supported by scientific certainty. Although the EU and non-EU actions negatively impacted the Company's business, they were not material to the Company's financial position or its results of operations. Taiwan, South Korea, and Brazil have implemented, or are expected to implement shortly, restrictions on the use of antibiotics in animal feed. The Company had marketed antibiotics for use in food-producing animals in these countries but will be required to curtail or discontinue those practices. The actions by these countries may negatively impact the Company's business as a result of reduced sales. It is not yet known whether this reduction will be material to the Company's financial position or its results of operations. The Company cannot predict whether the present zinc bacitracin ban or other antibiotic restrictions will be expanded. If any one of the following occur: (i) the EU, countries within or outside the EU or meat importers act to prevent the importation of meat products from countries that allow the use of bacitracin-based or other antibiotic-containing products, (ii) there is an expansion of the zinc bacitracin ban to additional countries, such as the U.S., where the Company has material sales of bacitracin-based products, (iii) a similar ban is instituted relating to other antibiotic feed additives sold by the Company in the U.S. or in one or more other countries where the Company has material sales, or (iv) there is an increase in public pressure to discontinue the use of antibiotic feed additives, the resultant loss of sales could be material to the Company's financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. The Company cannot predict whether this antibiotic resistance c oncern will result in expanded regulations or public pressure adversely affecting other antibiotic-based animal health products previously sold by the Company in the jurisdictions where the ban has been imposed or in other countries in which those products are presently sold. Discussions of the antibiotic resistance issue continue actively in the U.S. Various sources have published reports concerning possible adverse human effects from the use of antibiotics in food animals. Some of these reports have asserted that major animal producers, some of whom are the Company's customers or the end-users of its products, are reducing the use of antibiotics. In July 2005, the FDA withdrew the approval of an antibiotic poultry water medication due to concerns regarding antibiotic resistance in humans. While the Company does not market this drug, this ruling would be significant if its conclusions were expanded to the medicated feed additives sold by the Company. It is uncertain what additional actions, if any, the FDA may take for approved animal drug products. However, the FDA has established a rating system to be used to compare the risks associated with the use of specific antibiotic products in food producing animals, including those sold by the Company. While the Company does not believe that the presently proposed risk assessment system would be materially adverse to its business, it is subject to change prior to adoption or to later amendment. The sales of the Company's AH segment are principally antibiotic-based products for use with food producing animals; therefore, the future loss of major markets, including the U.S., or negative publicity regarding this use of antibiotic based products, could have a negative impact on the Company's sales and income. Potential adverse effects on human health linked to the raising or consumption of food producing animals using the Company's products could result in a decrease in the Company's sales. Should the government find, or the public perceive, a risk to human health from consumption of food producing animals which utilize the Company's products (such as Avian flu) or as a by-product to the raising of such animals (such as the "Chicken Litter" litigation referred to in Item 3 of this 10-K Report), there may be a decline in either the sale of such food products, which would result in a decrease in the use of the Company's products, or a decrease in the use of the Company's products in the growing of such food producing animals. Many of the third parties with whom the Company does business depend on government approvals, and the failure to maintain these approvals could affect the supply of materials to the Company, hinder the Company's ability to license products, or affect the promotion, distribution or sale of the Company's products. The Company has affiliations, license and distribution agreements, manufacturing, and other arrangements with third parties that depend on regulatory approvals sought by such third parties. The Company's vendors and third-party manufacturers, including Actavis, currently the sole source of supply for KADIAN, and IBSA, the holder of the New Drug Application and sole source supplier of FLECTOR Patch (through IBSA's contract manufacturer, Teikoku Seiyaku Co. Ltd., "Teikoku"), are subject to regulatory compliance requirements similar to those described herein with respect to the Company. If any one of these third parties is found to have significant regulatory violations, the Company could be materially negatively impacted if such violations result in an interruption of the supply of a product that relates to material Company sales. While the Company takes measures where economically feasible and available to secure back-up suppliers, many of the Company's pro ducts come from a sole source supplier. There can be no assurance that such contingency plans will be able to provide adequate and timely product to eliminate any threat of interruption of supply of the Company's products to its customers or that these problems will not otherwise materially impact the Company's business. See "An interruption in the supply of KADIAN or FLECTOR Patch would be materially adverse to the Company's operations" below. An interruption in the supply of the Company's raw materials or products or an adverse event at one of the Company's manufacturing facilities or third-party manufacturing facilities could adversely affect the Company's operations. The Company currently purchases many of its raw materials and a number of its finished products from single suppliers, and many of its products are manufactured at a single facility, including FLECTOR Patch, which is supplied by IBSA and manufactured by Teikoku at its Japanese facility and KADIAN, which is manufactured by Actavis at its Elizabeth, New Jersey facility. While the Company relies on single source suppliers for many of its raw materials and for a number of its finished products, it relies on different suppliers for different raw materials and finished products. Any interruption in the supply of these materials or products or an adverse event at the facilities that manufacture and blend the Company's products, could decrease sales of the affected products. In this event, the Company may seek to enter into agreements with third parties to purchase raw materials or products or to lease or purchase new manufacturing facilities. The Company may be u nable to find a third-party willing or able to provide the necessary products or facilities suitable for manufacturing pharmaceuticals on terms acceptable to the Company. If the Company had to obtain substitute materials or products, the Company would require additional regulatory approvals, as approvals are specific to a single product produced by a specified manufacturer. The use of new facilities, similarly, would require regulatory approvals. Any significant interruption of supply from the Company's sole source raw material suppliers or third-party manufacturing facilities that are related to products that generate more than $5.0 million in gross profits or any adverse event at any of its manufacturing facilities could have a material adverse effect on the Company's operations. Six raw materials used in Company products that each generated more than $5.0 million in gross profits in 2007 were purchased by the Company from sole source suppliers. The sole source suppliers that provided these raw materials w ere: Bayer Crop Science, Cambrex Corporation, Trader's Protein, Archer Daniels Midland Company, Roquette America, and Second Pharma Co., Ltd. Additionally, four finished product sole source suppliers supplied finished products generating more than $5.0 million in gross profits in 2007 including Actavis, the supplier of KADIAN. See "An interruption in the supply of KADIAN or FLECTOR Patch would be materially adverse to the Company's operations" below. An interruption in the supply of KADIAN or FLECTOR Patch would be materially adverse to the Company's operations. The most significant Company product manufactured by a third-party is KADIAN, which is manufactured under a toll manufacturing agreement with the Company's former generic subsidiary sold to Actavis as a part of the Generics Business transaction. The Company is in the process of securing a second source for the manufacture of KADIAN. Actavis is, at present, its sole supplier. Actavis has, in the past, had certain FDA regulatory issues at the plant where KADIAN is manufactured, including a Form 483 issued during 2006. In addition, the Company no longer controls the Elizabeth plant of Actavis and it can no longer require that KADIAN manufacturing be given any particular priority when compared with the products manufactured for Actavis' own sales. Any interruption in the supply of KADIAN would have a material adverse effect on the Company. This effect could be particularly severe since many patients acclimate to the brand of pain product which they are using a nd, as a result, forcing a KADIAN user to switch to a competitive product could cause a reluctance of that individual to resume his or her use of KADIAN once supplies of the product were again available, as well as potentially cause some physicians to favor competitive products for new patients. Additionally, the Company's product, FLECTOR Patch, is manufactured by its sole source supplier, IBSA (through IBSA's contract manufacturer, Teikoku, located in Japan). The Company has no direct contractual relationship with Teikoku. Any interruption in supply of FLECTOR Patch would have a material adverse effect on the Company. A delay in or the failure to launch EMBEDA and TIROSINT could be materially adverse to the Company's operations. Two significant patents on the Company's KADIAN product will expire in 2010 and the other patent will expire in 2011, although patent protection may be lost at an earlier date under certain circumstances. (See "The Company's branded drug product, KADIAN, may experience general generic competition" in the Risk Factors below.) Pharmaceuticals has conducted Phase III activities on a new abuse deterrent form of extended release morphine sulfate, EMBEDA. In November 2007, the Company announced successful Phase III results for EMBEDA. As a result, the Company is targeting an NDA filing for EMBEDA in the first quarter of 2008. The Company's failure to launch this product in a timely manner could adversely affect the Company's financial results and operations. In connection with its Exclusive License and Distribution Agreement, dated August 16, 2007, with IBSA (the "IBSA Agreement"), Pharmaceuticals made investments with respect to its TIROSINT product, including a combined $100 million upfront payment to obtain the rights to this product and FLECTOR Patch. The IBSA Agreement, as amended, also sets out required time periods within which Pharmaceuticals must launch TIROSINT and certain minimum purchase requirements. Penalties will be imposed if such requirements are not met. The Company's failure to launch this product or comply with the minimum purchase requirements according to the time line set forth in the IBSA Agreement could materially adversely affect the Company's financial results and operations. A material portion of the Company's sales and gross profits is dependent on a relatively small number of products. Seven products (Pharmaceuticals' KADIAN, AH's CTC, BMD and Lasalocid and API's vancomycin, polymyxin and bacitracin) in the aggregate constituted approximately 75% of the Company's 2007 sales and 88% of gross profits. The loss of significant sales of any one or more of such products for any reason, including any of the risks related to such products described in this 10-K Report, would have a material adverse effect upon the Company. In January 2008, the Company commenced sales of its FLECTOR Patch product. The Company has made substantial investments with respect to FLECTOR Patch including a combined $100 million upfront payment to obtain the rights to this product and TIROSINT as well as substantial investments in increasing the size of its sales force. The Company is expecting significant future sales from FLECTOR Patch. The contract with IBSA contains certain minimum purchase requirements. Penalties will be imposed if such requirements are not met. The failure of the Company to meet its sales goals for FLECTOR Patch would have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company's international operations are subject to additional economic and political risks. The Company's international operations are subject to currency exchange fluctuations and restrictions, political instability in some countries, and uncertainty as to the enforceability of, and government control over, commercial rights. The Company sells its AH and API products in many countries that are susceptible to significant foreign currency fluctuations. A majority of sales of the Company's API products are denominated in U.S. dollars, increasing credit risk if local currencies devalue significantly and it becomes more expensive for customers to purchase U.S. dollars required to pay the Company. In addition, a majority of API costs are denominated in European currencies, thereby exposing the Company to exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and those European currencies. In all the Company's businesses, it may become more difficult for the Company to respond to competitive challenges because of its size and product mix and the rapidly changing market. The industries in which the Company sells its products are highly competitive and many of the Company's competitors are affiliated with entities that are substantially larger and have greater financial, technical and marketing resources than the Company possesses. In certain countries, because of the Company's size and product mix, the Company may not be able to capitalize on changes in competition and pricing as fully as the Company's competitors. In recent years, new competitors have entered the generic medicated animal feed additive market, particularly in the United States. Additionally, the Company's API business may be subject to increased competitive challenges, particularly, but not exclusively, with respect to those products for which the Company implemented significant price increases during 2003. The Company's branded pharmaceutical drug products, KADIAN and FLECTOR Patch, may experience generic competition. The Company's branded drug product line may face challenges from generic competitors. The Company has three patents that cover KADIAN (expiring in 2010 and 2011), two of which could be subject to paragraph IV challenges prior to their expiration date, though there have been no such challenges to date. FLECTOR Patch has one patent in force that is listed in the Orange Book (the FDA's publication of approved drugs) which expires in 2014 and is the subject of an application seeking a 5 year patent term extension. With respect to KADIAN, the Company cannot offer any assurance that it will be able to successfully defend its patent position or utilize the statutory 30-month stay on FDA approval of the generic ANDA, since either result is dependent upon the Company being able to meet the statutory requirements for filing a lawsuit challenging the generic product based upon a bona fide belief that the generic product infringes one or more patents. The existence of suc h belief cannot be determined until the Company has the opportunity to review the relevant paragraph IV filing. With respect to FLECTOR Patch, the Company cannot offer any assurance that a generic competitor will not attempt to invalidate or claim non-infringement with respect to the intellectual property covering the FLECTOR Patch. Furthermore, under the contract with IBSA for the FLECTOR Patch, IBSA has the first right, but not the duty, to institute infringement actions against third parties. Upon entry of a generic equivalent in the market, the Company's branded product could lose substantial sales and the price could materially decline. The Company's products and future products are based on technologies in areas where third parties hold numerous patents. Certain of the Company's products and product candidates, including EMBEDA, and technologies, including its abuse deterrent technology, are based on technologies in areas where third parties hold numerous patents. As a result, other companies may hold patents that may be used to challenge the Company's freedom to manufacture and sell certain products in the relevant jurisdictions. If such challenges are successful, the Company may be prevented from selling its products or required to license relevant patents and pay significant fees or royalties to third parties. Licenses may not be available on favorable terms to the Company. Alternatively, the Company may have to defend an infringement action and challenge the validity of third-party patents in court, a costly and time consuming process. The defense of such suits could result in unfavorable outcomes or could cause the Company to abandon its defense of such a suit and abandon and withdraw the relevant product(s). If the Company do es not obtain a license in such a case, or if it is found liable for infringement and is unable to have such patents declared invalid or unenforceable, the Company may be liable for significant monetary damages, may encounter significant delays in bringing products to market, or may be precluded from manufacturing, using, or selling these products. The Company's policies regarding sales returns, allowances and chargebacks, and marketing programs adopted by wholesalers and other customers, may reduce the Company's revenue in future fiscal periods. Based on industry practice in the U.S., brand pharmaceutical manufacturers such as the Company have return policies, rebates paid to commercial and government entities in connection with sales made to enrollees in certain health plans, and chargebacks to wholesale customers in connection with sales they make to certain categories of customers, such as hospitals or group purchasing organizations. Although the Company establishes reserves based upon its prior experience and certain other information that reflect the Company's best estimate of the impact that these policies will have in subsequent periods, actual results could differ from these estimates and impact the Company's financial results. The Company's liability from accidents, product liability or other claims may exceed the Company's insurance coverage. The Company seeks to obtain liability and direct damage insurance to protect it from liability due to accidents, product liability and other claims that arise in the course of doing business. While, based upon historical claims levels, the Company believes its present insurance is adequate for current and projected operations, insurance that the Company seeks to obtain in the future to protect itself against these potential liabilities may be inadequate, unobtainable or prohibitively expensive. A materially adverse result in the AH litigation relating to its 3-NITRO product (See "Legal Proceedings - Chicken Litter Litigation") could result in losses that exceed the Company's insurance coverage. The Company is subject to renewal of most of its insurance policies each year and changes are anticipated at each renewal. In past years, the Company has experienced increases in its insurance costs and certain coverage reductions, including coverage exclusions pert aining to 3-NITRO and certain other products that it now manufacturers or may manufacture in the future. The Company's inability to obtain and maintain sufficient insurance coverage on reasonable terms could materially adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company could have difficulties in developing and integrating strategic alliances, co-development opportunities and other relationships. The Company intends to continue to pursue product-specific licensing and marketing agreements, co-development opportunities and other partnering arrangements. The Company may also pursue selective product and company acquisitions. The Company cannot be sure that it will be able to locate suitable partners for these transactions. In addition, assuming the Company identifies suitable partners, the process of effectively entering into these arrangements involves risks that the Company's management's attention may be diverted from other business concerns and that the Company may have difficulty integrating the new arrangements into its existing business. In addition, certain transactions could adversely impact earnings as the Company incurs development and other expenses related to the transactions and the Company could incur debt to complete these transactions. Debt instruments could contain contractual commitments and covenants that could adversely affect th e Company's cash flow and its ability to operate its business. Additionally, certain of the Company's partners, such as IBSA, have entered into arrangements with third parties relating to supply of the Company's products. The Company does not have any control over such third party arrangements. Non-compliance with environmental waste discharge regulations could adversely affect production at two European plants of the Company. During 2005, the environmental authorities having jurisdiction over the Copenhagen API manufacturing facility gave the Company notice of revised waste discharge levels. The Company believes it has taken the actions necessary to comply with the requirements, including certain plant alterations and modifications at a cost not material to the Company. The environmental authorities have not confirmed whether the Company's actions are in compliance with the requirements outlined in the notice. In September 2007, the Company paid a reduced criminal fine of $0.8 million in settlement of specified past accidental discharge activities at the Oslo API facility. Separately, in September 2007, the environmental authority having jurisdiction over the Oslo API plant of the Company gave the Company notice that it believes certain ordinary course discharge activities at the facility have not been in compliance with discharge levels permitted under the Company's permit during that period. The Company has responded to the authority's request for further information and indicated it believes it has been in compliance with its permit with respect to its ordinary course discharge activities. The environmental authority has procured additional testing and expert opinions that the Company believes support its position that such ordinary course discharge levels are in compliance with the Company's permit. The failure or inability to comply with applicable regulations could result in further criminal or civil actions affecting production at these facilities which could be materially adverse to the Company. Past restatements of the Company's financial statements and certain matters related to internal controls may present a risk of future restatements and lead to an inability to report on the financial status of the Company on a timely and fair basis. In April 2005, the Company revised its financial statements for the first three quarters of 2004 to disaggregate its U.S. Generics Pharmaceuticals ("USG") and Pharmaceuticals businesses as separate reportable segments. In May 2005, the Company revised its 2004 financial statements to change the classification of certain of its outstanding debt as current liabilities and to amend disclosures related to the Company's compliance with certain of its debt covenants at December 31, 2004 and 2003. The Company has made significant investments to enable it to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the "Act"). Compliance with Section 404 of the Act was first required as of December 31, 2004. The Company has undergone a significant effort to document, test, and assess its internal controls. At December 31, 2004, the Company identified four material weaknesses in its internal control over financial reporting: (i) ineffective internal controls to ensure the completeness and accuracy of customer discount reserves and certain accrual accounts at the Company's USG business; (ii) ineffective internal controls to ensure the completeness and accuracy of income tax accounts, including deferred tax assets and liabilities, taxes payable and income tax expense; (iii) ineffective internal controls over the determination of proper segment disclosures; and (iv) ineffective controls to ensure the appropriate review and monitoring of its compliance with certain of its debt covenants. During 2005, the Company implemented actions to remediate the four material weaknesses identified at December 31, 2004. The Company believes the actions it took in 2005 and the enhanced control procedures it implemented served to remediate the four material weaknesses identified at December 31, 2004. However, at December 31, 2005, the Company identified a material weakness in its internal controls over financial reporting for income taxes related specifically to the timeliness and accuracy of tax accounting related to the disposition of the USG business and related fourth quarter transactions. In addition, management identified, and developed remediation plans to address certain other control deficiencies which were not material weaknesses at December 31, 2005. During 2006, the Company took actions and remediated the material weakness related to the financial reporting for income taxes. Management performed an assessment of the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, utilizing the criteria described in "Internal Control - Integrated Framework" issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission ("COSO"). The objective of this assessment was to determine whether the Company's internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2007. Based on that assessment, the Company believes that, at December 31, 2007, its internal control over financial reporting was effective. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies and procedures may deteriorate. In future years, there are no assurances that the Company will not have material weaknesses that would be required to be reported or that the Company will be able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Act. A significant material weakness or the failure to meet the requirements of Section 404 could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of the Company's financial statements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 