Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company's reports filed from time to time pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, include certain forward-looking statements. Like any company subject to a competitive and changing business environment, the Company cannot guarantee the results predicted in any of the Company's forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include the following: The Company depends on the development, manufacture and marketing of new products for its future success. The Company's future success is largely dependent upon its ability to develop, manufacture and market commercially successful new products. Generally, the successful commercial marketing of the Company's products depends on completing the following steps in a time frame to allow the Company to be among the first to market a particular product: developing and testing the product; proving that the product is safe and effective; and filing for and receiving regulatory approvals to manufacture and sell the product in a timely manner. Delays in the development, manufacture or marketing of new products will impact the Company's expenses and revenues. The Company cannot be sure that any product presently going through the process set forth above, or which may be chosen by the Company to enter this process in the future, will result in the timely and profitable commercial launch of a new product. Research and development expenditures will negatively impact the Company's earnings in the short term, and there is no guarantee of success. The Company, in its continuing businesses, expended approximately $44.4 million and $26.9 million on research and development efforts in 2006 and 2005, respectively, and expects to increase these expenditures by approximately $30 to $35 million in 2007, principally for the development of additional products in Pharmaceuticals. Such research and development expenditures will reduce the Company's earnings in the short term. Further, the Company cannot be sure that its research and development expenditures will, in the long term, result in the commercialization of products, including a new pain product, which prove to be economically successful. The Company is subject to government regulations and actions that increase the Company's costs and could prevent it from marketing and selling some of its products in certain countries. The research, development, manufacturing and marketing of the Company's products are subject to extensive government regulation. Government regulation includes inspection of and controls over testing, manufacturing, safety, efficacy, labeling, record keeping, pricing, sale and distribution of pharmaceutical products. While the Company does not keep records that segregate the cost of compliance with these government regulations, in the aggregate such regulations substantially increase the cost of manufacturing, developing and selling the Company's products. The U.S. and other governments regularly review manufacturing operations, including API's plants in Oslo, Copenhagen and Budapest and AH's plants in Oslo and the US, where products for the U.S. market are, or are intended to be, manufactured. These reviews have in the past and may in the future result in regulatory concerns requiring a response by the Company. Failure to adequately address these concerns could have a material adverse effect on the Company, including product approval delays, reduced production and production interruptions, among other things. The significance of the effect of any such failures depends on the severity of the remedy chosen by the government agency. Non-compliance with applicable requirements can result in fines, recall or seizure of products, suspension of production or distribution and debarment of individuals from providing services to drug companies in any capacity or debarment of the Company from obtaining new drug approv als, resulting in current charges to income and the potential for future loss of income and increased operating expenses. In recent years, besides stepped up enforcement of cGMP requirements, the federal government has utilized equitable disgorgement as a means of enforcing compliance with the FDA's cGMP regulations. There can be no assurance that the FDA would not seek to impose similar sanctions on the Company and any such sanction could have a significant effect on the Company's business and operations. In addition, continuing studies of the proper utilization, safety and efficacy of pharmaceuticals and other health care products are continually being conducted by the industry, government agencies (including studies required to be performed from time to time by the pharmaceutical company marketing a particular drug) and others. These studies, which increasingly employ more sophisticated methods and techniques, can question the safety and efficacy of currently marketed products and in some cases have resulted, and may in the future result, in the discontinuance of their marketing and, in certain countries, give rise to claims for damages from persons who believe they have been injured as a result of their use. An expansion of the ban of the use of antibiotics used in food-producing animals could result in a decrease in the Company's total sales. The issue of the potential transfer of increased bacterial resistance to certain antibiotics used in certain food-producing animals to human pathogens is the subject of discussions on a worldwide basis and, in certain instances, has led to government restrictions on the use of antibiotics in these food-producing animals. While most of the government activity in this area has involved products other than those that the Company offers for sale, the European Union and a number of non-EU countries, including Norway and Turkey, banned the use of bacitracin zinc, a feed antibiotic growth promoter manufactured by the Company and others that has been used in livestock feeds for over 40 years, as a feed additive growth promoter. The Company has not sold this product as a feed additive growth promoter in these countries since the bans took effect (initially in the EU in July 1999, in Turkey, Bulgaria and Romania, (the latter two now part of the EU) in 2000, and in Norway in January 2006). The EU ban is based upon the "Precautionary Principle", which states that a product may be withdrawn from the market based upon a finding of a potential threat of serious or irreversible damage even if such finding is not supported by scientific certainty. Although the EU and non-EU actions negatively impacted the Company's business, they were not material to the Company's financial position or its results of operations. The Company cannot predict whether the present bacitracin zinc ban will be expanded. If any one of the following occur: (i) the EU, countries within or outside the EU or meat importers act to prevent the importation of meat products from countries that allow the use of bacitracin-based products, (ii) there is an expansion of the zinc bacitracin ban to additional countries, such as the U.S., where the Company has material sales of bacitracin-based products, (iii) a similar ban is instituted relating to other antibiotic feed additives sold by the Company in the U.S. or in one or more other countries where the Company has material sales, or (iv) there is an increase in public pressure to discontinue the use of antibiotic feed additives, the resultant loss of sales could be material to the Company's financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. The Company cannot predict whether this antibiotic resistance concern will result in expanded regulations or public pressure adversely affecting other antibiotic-based animal health products previously sold by the Company in the jurisdictions where the ban has been imposed or in other countries in which those products are presently sold. Discussions of the antibiotic resistance issue continue actively in the U.S. Various sources have published reports concerning possible adverse human effects from the use of antibiotics in food animals. Some of these reports have asserted that major animal producers, some of whom are the Company's customers or the end-users of its products, are reducing the use of antibiotics. In July 2005, the FDA announced a restriction on the distribution and use of a medicated feed additive due to concerns regarding antibiotic resistance in humans. While the Company does not market this drug, this ruling would be significant if its conclusions were expanded to the medicated feed additives sold by the Company. It is uncertain what additional actions, if any, the FDA may take for approved animal drug products. However, the FDA has established a rating system to be used to compare the risks associated with the use of specific antibiotic products in food producing animal s, including those sold by the Company. While the Company does not believe that the presently proposed risk assessment system would be materially adverse to its business, it is subject to change prior to adoption or to later amendment. The sales of the Company's AH segment are principally antibiotic-based products for use with food producing animals; therefore, the future loss of major markets, including the U.S., or negative publicity regarding this use of antibiotic based products, could have a negative impact on the Company's sales and income. Potential adverse effects on human health linked to the raising or consumption of food producing animals using the Company's products could result in a decrease in the Company's sales. Should the government find, or the public perceive, a risk to human health from consumption of food producing animals which utilize the Company's products (such as Avian flu) or as a by-product to the raising of such animals (such as the "Chicken Litter" litigation referred to in Item 3 of this Report), there may be a decline in either the sale of such food products, which would result in a decrease in the use of the Company's products, or a decrease in the use of the Company's products in the growing of such food producing animals. Many of the third parties with whom the Company does business depend on government approvals, and the failure to maintain these approvals could affect the supply of materials to the Company, hinder the Company's ability to license products, or affect the promotion, distribution or sale of the Company's products. The Company has affiliations, license agreements and other arrangements with third parties that depend on regulatory approvals sought by such third parties. The Company's vendors and third-party contract manufacturers, including Actavis, currently the sole source of supply for KADIAN, are subject to regulatory compliance similar to those described herein with respect to the Company. If any one of these third parties is found to have significant regulatory violations, the Company could be materially negatively impacted if such violations result in an interruption of the supply of a product which relates to material Company sales. While the Company takes measures where economically feasible and available to secure back-up suppliers, many of the Company's products come from a sole source supplier. There can be no assurance that such contingency plans will be able to provide adequate and timely product to eliminate any threat of interruption of supply of the Company's products to its customers or that these problems will not otherwise materially impact the Company's business. See "An interruption in the supply of KADIAN would be materially adverse to the Company's operations" below. An interruption in the supply of the Company's raw materials or products or an adverse event at one of the Company's manufacturing facilities or third-party manufacturing facilities could adversely affect the Company's operations. The Company currently purchases many of its raw materials and a number of its finished products from single suppliers and many of its products are manufactured at a single facility; including KADIAN, which is manufactured by Actavis at its Elizabeth, New Jersey facility. While the Company relies on single source suppliers for many of its raw materials and for a number of its finished products, it relies on different suppliers for different raw materials and finished products. Any interruption in the supply of these materials or products or an adverse event at the facilities that manufacture and blend the Company's products, could decrease sales of the affected products. In this event, the Company may seek to enter into agreements with third parties to purchase raw materials or products or to lease or purchase new manufacturing facilities. The Company may be unable to find a third-party willing or able to provide the necessary products or facilities suitabl e for manufacturing pharmaceuticals on terms acceptable to the Company. If the Company had to obtain substitute materials or products, the Company would require additional regulatory approvals, as approvals are specific to a single product produced by a specified manufacturer. The use of new facilities, similarly, would require regulatory approvals. Any significant interruption of supply from the Company's sole source raw material suppliers or third-party manufacturing facilities that are related to products that generate more than $5.0 million in gross profits or any adverse event at any of its manufacturing facilities could have a material adverse effect on the Company's operations. Five raw materials used in Company products that each generated more than $5.0 million in gross profits in 2006 came from sole source suppliers. The sole source suppliers that provided these raw materials were: Bayer Crop Science, Cambrex Corporation, DSM Fine Chemicals Inc., Kaken Pharmaceuticals Co, Ltd, and Second Pharma Co. , Ltd (formerly Beijing #2). Additionally, four finished product sole source suppliers supplied finished products generating more than $5.0 million in gross profits in 2006 including Actavis, the supplier of KADIAN. See "An interruption in the supply of KADIAN would be materially adverse to the Company's operations" below. An interruption in the supply of KADIAN would be materially adverse to the Company's operations. The most significant Company product manufactured by a third-party is KADIAN, which is manufactured under a toll manufacturing agreement with the Company's former genericsubsidiary sold to Actavis as a part of the Generics Business transaction. While the Company is using reasonable commercial efforts to locate a second source for the manufacture of KADIAN, Actavis is, at present, its sole supplier. Actavis has, in the past, had certain FDA regulatory issues at the plant where KADIAN is manufactured, including a Form 483 issued during 2006. In addition, the Company no longer controls the Elizabeth plant of Actavis and it can no longer require that KADIAN manufacturing be given any particular priority when compared with the products manufactured for Actavis' own sales. Any interruption in the supply of KADIAN would have a material adverse effect on the Company. This effect could be particularly severe since many patients acclimate to the brand of pain product which they are using and, as a result, forcing a KADIAN user to switch to a competitive product could cause a reluctance of that individual to resume his or her use of KADIAN once supplies of the product were again available, as well as potentially cause some physicians to favor competitive products for new patients. A delay in or the failure to launch KADIAN NT could be materially adverse to the Company's operations. Two significant patents on the Company's KADIAN product will expire in 2010 and the other patent will expire in 2011, although patent protection may be lost at an earlier date under certain circumstances. (See "The Company's branded drug product, KADIAN, may experience general generic competition" below). Pharmaceuticals has commenced Phase III activities on a new abuse resistant form of KADIAN ("KADIAN NT") which the Company intends to offer as an alternative to KADIAN prior to expiration of the patents. Assuming a successful Phase III outcome, the Company is targeting an NDA filing in the first half of 2008. A failure of the Phase III studies or a delay in the timing of the Phase III activities could cancel or delay the NDA filing and the launch of this abuse resistant form of KADIAN. A material portion of the Company's sales and gross profits is dependent on a relatively small number of products. Seven products (Pharmaceuticals' KADIAN, AH's CTC, BMD and Lacalocid and API's vancomycin, polymyxin and bacitracin) in the aggregate constituted approximately 75% of the Company's 2006 sales and gross profits. The loss of significant sales of any one or more of such products for any reason, including any of the risks related to such products described in this Report, would have a material adverse effect upon the Company. The Company's international operations are subject to additional economic and political risks. The Company's international operations are subject to currency exchange fluctuations and restrictions, political instability in some countries, and uncertainty as to the enforceability of, and government control over, commercial rights. The Company sells its AH and API products in many countries that are susceptible to significant foreign currency fluctuations. Sales of the Company's API products are generally denominated in U.S. dollars, eliminating the direct exposure to currency fluctuations, but increasing credit risk if the local currency devalues significantly and it becomes more expensive for customers to purchase U.S. dollars required to pay the Company. In all the Company's businesses, it may become more difficult for the Company to respond to competitive challenges because of its size and product mix and the rapidly changing market. The industries in which the Company sells its products are highly competitive and many of the Company's competitors are affiliated with entities which are substantially larger and have greater financial, technical and marketing resources than the Company possesses. In certain countries, because of the Company's size and product mix, the Company may not be able to capitalize on changes in competition and pricing as fully as the Company's competitors. In recent years, have been new entrants in the generic medicated animal feed additive market, particularly in the United States. Additionally, the Company's API business may be subject to increased competitive challenges, particularly with respect to those products for which the Company implemented significant price increases during 2003. The Company's branded drug product, KADIAN, may experience general genericcompetition. The Company's branded drug product line may face challenges from genericcompetitors. The Company has three patents that cover KADIAN (expiring in either 2010 or 2011), two of which could be subject to paragraph IV challenges prior to their expiration date, though there have been no such challenges to date. The Company cannot offer any assurance that it will be able to successfully defend its patent position or utilize the statutory 30-month stay on FDA approval of the generic ANDA, since either result is dependent upon the Company being able to meet the statutory requirements for filing a lawsuit challenging the generic product based upon a bona fide belief that the generic product infringes one or more of the KADIAN patents. The existence of such belief cannot be determined until the Company has the opportunity to review the relevant paragraph IV filing. Upon entry of a generic equivalent in the market, the Company's branded product could lose substanti al sales and the price could materially decline. The Company's products and future products are based on technologies in areas where third parties hold numerous patents. Certain of the Company's products, including its abuse deterrent technology, are based on technologies in areas where third parties hold numerous patents. As a result, other companies may hold patents which may be used to challenge the Company's freedom to manufacture and sell its products in the relevant jurisdictions. If such challenges are successful, the Company may be prevented from selling its products or required to license relevant patents and pay significant fees or royalties to third parties. Licenses may not be available on favorable terms to the Company. Alternatively, the Company may have to defend an infringement action and challenge the validity of third-party patents in court, a costly and time consuming process. The defense of such suits could result in unfavorable outcomes or could cause the Company to abandon its defense of such a suit and abandon and withdraw the relevant product(s). If the Company does not obtain a license in such a case, or if it is found liab le for infringement and is unable to have such patents declared invalid or unenforceable, the Company may be liable for significant monetary damages, may encounter significant delays in bringing products to market, or may be precluded from manufacturing, using, or selling these products. The Company's policies regarding sales returns, allowances and chargebacks, and marketing programs adopted by wholesalers and other customers, may reduce the Company's revenue in future fiscal periods. Based on industry practice in the U.S., brand manufacturers such as the Company have return policies, rebates paid to commercial and government entities in connection with sales made to enrollees in certain health plans, and chargebacks to wholesale customers in connection with sales they make to certain categories of customers, such as hospitals or group purchasing organizations. Although the Company establishes reserves based upon its prior experience and certain other information which reflect the Company's best estimate of the impact that these policies will have in subsequent periods, actual results could differ from these estimates and impact the Company's financial results. The Company's liability from accidents, product liability or other claims may exceed the Company's insurance coverage. The Company seeks to obtain liability and direct damage insurance to protect it from liability due to accidents, product liability and other claims that arise in the course of doing business. While, based upon historical claims levels, the Company believes its present insurance is adequate for current and projected operations, insurance that the Company seeks to obtain in the future to protect itself against these potential liabilities may be inadequate, unobtainable or prohibitively expensive. A materially adverse result in the AH litigation relating to its 3-Nitro product (See "Legal Proceedings - Chicken Litter Litigation") could result in insurance coverage which is not adequate to cover the risk of that litigation or future lawsuits. The Company is subject to renewal of most of its insurance policies each year and changes are anticipated at each renewal. In recent years, the Company has experienced increases in its insurance costs and certain coverag e reductions, including coverage exclusions pertaining to 3-Nitro and certain other products that it now manufacturers or may manufacture in the future. The Company's inability to obtain and maintain sufficient insurance coverage on reasonable terms could materially adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company could have difficulties in developing and integrating strategic alliances, co-development opportunities and other relationships. The Company intends to pursue product-specific licensing, marketing agreements, co-development opportunities and other partnering arrangements. The Company may also pursue selective product and company acquisitions. The Company cannot be sure that it will be able to locate suitable partners for these transactions. In addition, assuming the Company identifies suitable partners, the process of effectively entering into these arrangements involves risks that the Company's management's attention may be diverted from other business concerns and that the Company may have difficulty integrating the new arrangements into its existing business. In addition, certain transactions could adversely impact earnings as the Company incurs development and other expenses related to the transactions and the Company could incur debt to complete these transactions. Debt instruments could contain contractual commitments and covenants that could adversely affect the Company' s cash flow and its ability to operate its business. Non-compliance with environmental waste discharge regulations could adversely affect production at two European plants of the Company. During 2005, the environmental authorities having jurisdiction over the Copenhagen and Oslo API manufacturing facilities gave the Company notice of revised waste discharge levels. The Company believes it has taken the actions necessary to comply with the requirements, including certain plant alterations and modifications at a cost not material to the Company. The environmental authorities have not yet confirmed whether the Company's actions are in compliance with the requirements outlined in the notice. Additionally, in 2006 a criminal fine was levied against the Company's Oslo API facility based on allegations that certain of the discharge activities at the facility were in breach of applicable regulations. The Company is in discussions with the local authorities regarding this fine. The failure or inability to comply with applicable regulations could result in further criminal or civil actions affecting production at these facilities which could be materially adverse to the Company. A loss of members of the Company's senior management team and other highly qualified employees could adversely affect the Company's business. The Company's success is dependent on attracting and retaining highly qualified management, scientific and sales personnel. The strategic change in the Company and the relocation of the Company's headquarters could impact the Company's ability to retain key employees. The loss of key personnel, or the Company's failure to attract and retain highly skilled employees in a timely fashion, could adversely impact the implementation of its business strategy. Past restatements of the Company's financial statements and certain matters related to internal controls may present a risk of future restatements and lead to an inability to report on the financial status of the Company on a timely and fair basis. In April 2005, the Company revised its financial statements for the first three quarters of 2004 to disaggregate its U.S. Generics Pharmaceuticals (USG) and Branded Pharmaceuticals (BP) businesses as separate reportable segments. In May 2005, the Company revised its 2004 financial statements to change the classification of certain of its outstanding debt as current liabilities and to amend disclosures related to the Company's compliance with certain of its debt covenants at December 31, 2004 and 2003. The Company has made significant investments to enable it to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the "Act"). Compliance with Section 404 of the Act was first required as of December 31, 2004. The Company has undergone a significant effort to document, test, and assess its internal controls. At December 31, 2004, the Company identified four material weaknesses in its internal control over financial reporting: (i) ineffective internal controls to ensure the completeness and accuracy of customer discount reserves and certain accrual accounts at the Company's USG business; (ii) ineffective internal controls to ensure the completeness and accuracy of income tax accounts, including deferred tax assets and liabilities, taxes payable and income tax expense; (iii) ineffective internal controls over the determination of proper segment disclosures; and (iv) ineffective controls to ensure the appropriate review and monitoring of its complian ce with certain of its debt covenants. During 2005, the Company implemented actions to remediate the four material weaknesses identified at December 31, 2004. The Company believes the actions it took in 2005 and the enhanced control procedures it implemented served to remediate the four material weaknesses identified at December 31, 2004. However, at December 31, 2005, the Company identified a material weakness in its internal controls over financial reporting for income taxes related specifically to the timeliness and accuracy of tax accounting related to the disposition of the Generics Business and related fourth quarter transactions. In addition, management identified, and developed remediation plans to address certain other control deficiencies which were not material weaknesses at December 31, 2005. During 2006, the Company took actions and remediated the material weakness related to the financial reporting for income taxes. Management performed an assessment of its internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, utilizing the criteria described in the "Internal Control- Integrated Framework" issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission ("COSO"). Based on that assessment, the Company concluded that, at December 31, 2006, its internal control over financial reporting was effective. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies and procedures may deteriorate. In future years, there are no assurances that the Company will not have material weaknesses that would be required to be reported or that the Company will be able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Act. A significant material weakness or the failure to meet the requirements of Section 404 could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of the Company's financial statements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 