ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to the Highly-Regulated Industry in which We Operate Include: • Failure by UCC to comply with the extensive regulatory requirements for school operations could result in financial penalties, restrictions on our operations, loss of federal financial aid funding for our students, or loss of our authorization to operate our school. • Loss of UCC’s state authorization or its accreditation by ACCSC would make it unable to offer accredited educational programs, and students would be unable to participate in Title IV programs. Such penalties would likely require UCC to close its campuses. • Any action by the U.S. Congress that significantly reduces Title IV program funding or the ability of UCC or its students to participate in Title IV programs could have a material adverse effect on our student population, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Legislative action may also require UCC to modify its practices for the school to comply fully with applicable requirements. Such changes could result in additional, significant administrative costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. • UCC may lose its eligibility to participate in Title IV programs if its student loan default rates are greater than the standards set by the USDE. If UCC were ineligible to participate in Title IV programs, this would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and the Company would likely have to close its campuses. • We may be required to post a letter of credit or accept other limitations to continue UCC’s participation in Title IV programs if we do not meet the USDE’s financial responsibility standards or if our school does not correctly calculate and timely return Title IV program funds for students who withdraw before completing their program of study. • We cannot open new schools or branch campuses of our existing school and we cannot offer new programs if these new locations and program offerings are not timely approved by the USDE and state and accrediting regulators, as applicable. Also, we may have to repay Title IV program funds disbursed to students enrolled at a new location or in a new program offering at an existing location if the Company does not obtain prior approval from the USDE and state and accrediting regulators, as applicable. • The Company would lose its eligibility to participate in the Title IV programs if, on a cash accounting basis, UCC derived more than 90% of our revenue for any fiscal year, as defined in accordance with applicable USDE regulations for Title IV programs. • If UCC fails to satisfy any of the USDE’s criteria for administrative capability, the USDE may require the repayment of Title IV program funds disbursed by UCC, may require UCC to receive Title IV program funds under an agreement other than the USDE’s standard advance funding agreement, may commence a proceeding to impose a fine or limit, suspend or terminate the participation of UCC in Title IV programs. • If we were found to violate standards related to payment of commissions, bonuses and other incentive payments, the USDE could impose monetary fines, penalties or other sanctions on the Company. • Investigations, claims, and actions against the Company and other companies in our industry could adversely affect our business and stock price. Even if the Company satisfactorily resolves such 14 Table of Contents investigations, claims and actions, we may have to expend substantial resources to address and defend those claims or actions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. • If the results of any audits, reviews, investigations, claims or actions are unfavorable to us, we may be required to pay monetary damages or be subject to fines, operational limitations, loss of federal funding, injunctions, additional oversight and reporting. Any penalty or restriction imposed on us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. • Adverse publicity from any claim, action, review or investigation could adversely affect our business. Risks Related to Our Business Include: • The Company’s financial performance depends, in part, on our ability to keep pace with changing market needs and technology. Prospective employers of our graduates increasingly demand that their entry-level employees possess appropriate technological skills. Our educational programs must keep pace with these evolving requirements. If we cannot respond to changes in industry requirements, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. High interest rates could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain students because the cost of education may be unaffordable for students. Changes in credit requirements may impact current or prospective students’ ability to obtain financing for the cost of education. • If the Company fails to effectively identify, establish, and operate new branch campuses of our existing school, our growth may be slowed and our profitability may be adversely affected. There can be no assurance that we will be able to establish additional campuses. • Competitors with greater resources could harm our business. The postsecondary education market is highly competitive. We compete with traditional public and private two-year and four-year colleges and universities and other proprietary schools, including those that offer distance learning programs. Some public and private colleges and universities, as well as other private career-oriented schools, may offer programs similar to ours. Although tuition at private nonprofit institutions is, on average, higher than tuition at UCC, some public institutions are able to charge lower tuition than UCC, due in part to government subsidies, government and foundation grants, tax-deductible contributions and other financial sources not available to proprietary schools. Some of our competitors in both the public and private sectors have substantially greater financial and other resources than UCC. • The Company’s financial performance depends, in part, on our ability to continue to develop awareness and acceptance of our school and programs among high school graduates and working adults. • The loss of our key personnel could harm our business. The Company’s success depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified faculty, campus administrators and management. We may have difficulty locating, hiring and retaining qualified personnel. The loss of service of key personnel, or failure to attract and retain other qualified and experienced personnel could cause our business to suffer. • The Company’s computer networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer hackers, computer viruses, and other security threats. A user who circumvents security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations. Due 15 Table of Contents to the sensitive nature of the information contained on our networks, our networks may be targeted by hackers. As a result, we may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of these security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches. Risk Related to Our Common Stock Include: • The trading price of the Company’s common stock may fluctuate substantially as a result of a number of factors, many of which are not in our control. These factors may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance, and could prevent an investor from selling shares of our common stock at or above the price at which such shares were purchased. Some of these factors include: — Our ability to meet or exceed our own forecasts or expectations of analysts or investors; — Quarterly variations in our operating results; — Changes in the legal or regulatory environment in which we operate; — General conditions in the for-profit, post-secondary education industry, including changes in federal and state laws and regulations and accreditation standards; — The initiation, pendency, or outcome of litigation, regulatory reviews, and investigations, including any adverse publicity related thereto; — Price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market; — The loss of key personnel; and — General economic conditions. • The stock markets, from time to time, experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. These broad fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no Securities Exchange Commission (SEC) staff comments on the Company’s periodic SEC reports which are unresolved. 16 Table of Contents 