Item 1A. Risk Factors Any of the following risks could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition and an investment in our stock. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. 13 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business We could encounter operational difficulties as a result of our growth. Our loans, deposits, fee businesses and employees have increased rapidly as a result of our organic growth and acquisitions. Our failure to successfully manage and support this growth with sufficient human resources, training and operational, financial and technology resources could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We may not be able to sustain or manage our growth. Future acquisitions and expansion activities may disrupt our business, dilute shareholder value and adversely affect our operating results. We regularly evaluate potential acquisitions and expansion opportunities. To the extent that we grow through acquisitions, we cannot assure you that we will be able to adequately or profitably manage this growth. Acquiring other banks, branches or businesses, as well as other geographic and product expansion activities, involve various risks including: • risks of unknown or contingent liabilities; • unanticipated costs and delays; • risks that acquired new businesses do not perform consistent with our growth and profitability expectations; • risks of entering new markets or product areas where we have limited experience; • risks that growth will strain our infrastructure, staff, internal controls and management, which may require additional personnel, time and expenditures; • exposure to potential asset quality issues with acquired institutions; • difficulties, expenses and delays of integrating the operations and personnel of acquired institutions, and start-up delays and costs of other expansion activities; • potential disruptions to our business; • possible loss of key employees and customers of acquired institutions; • potential short-term decreases in profitability; and • diversion of our management’s time and attention from our existing operations and business. We are required to maintain capital to meet regulatory requirements, and if we fail to maintain sufficient capital, our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations would be adversely affected. Both the Company and Seacoast National must meet regulatory capital requirements and maintain sufficient liquidity. If we fail to meet these capital and other regulatory requirements, our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Our failure to remain “well capitalized” and “well managed” for bank regulatory purposes could affect customer confidence, our ability to grow, our costs of funds and FDIC insurance costs, our ability to pay dividends on common stock, and our ability to make acquisitions, and we would no longer meet the requirements to become a financial holding company. 14 Table of Contents Our growth or currently unanticipated losses may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed or on favorable terms, and could dilute our existing shareholders. We anticipate that our current capital resources will satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future, absent any adverse regulatory action requiring additional capital. We may, however, need to raise additional capital to support our growth, currently unanticipated losses, or regulatory requirements. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend, among other things, on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are currently disrupted and limited by events outside our control, and on our financial performance. If we cannot raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be limited. Any issuances of our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock could dilute the interests of our existing common shareholders. Weakness in the real estate markets, including the secondary market for residential mortgage loans have adversely affected us and may continue to adversely affect us. The effects of ongoing mortgage market challenges, combined with the ongoing correction in residential real estate market prices and reduced levels of home sales, could result in further price reductions in single family home values, further adversely affecting the liquidity and value of collateral securing commercial loans for residential acquisition, construction and development, as well as residential mortgage loans that we hold, mortgage loan originations and gains on sale of mortgage loans. Declining real estate prices and higher interest rates charged on mortgage loans have caused higher delinquencies and losses on certain mortgage loans, generally, particularly second lien mortgages and home equity lines of credit. Significant ongoing disruptions in the secondary market for residential mortgage loans have limited the market for and liquidity of most residential mortgage loans other than conforming Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac loans. These trends could continue. Continued declines in real estate values, home sales volumes and financial stress on borrowers as a result of job losses, interest rate resets on adjustable rate mortgage loans or other factors could have further adverse effects on borrowers that result in higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods, which would adversely affect our financial condition, including capital and liquidity, or results of operations. In the event our allowance for loan losses is insufficient to cover such losses, our earnings, capital and liquidity could be adversely affected. As a result of the foregoing, our bank regulators could impose formal enforcement actions upon us, which among other possible things, would limit our business, and may require us to maintain higher levels of capital. Any formal enforcement actions would require prior regulatory approval of changes in our senior executive officers and directors and limit payments to our directors and officers upon termination. Our real estate portfolios are exposed to weakness in the Florida housing market and the overall state of the economy. The declines in home prices in the Florida housing market, along with the reduced availability of mortgage credit, have resulted in increases in delinquencies and losses in our portfolios of home equity lines and loans, and commercial loans related to residential real estate acquisition, construction and development. Further declines in home prices coupled with an economic recession and associated rises in unemployment levels could drive losses beyond that which is provided for in the allowance for loan losses. In that event, our earnings, financial condition, including our capital and liquidity could be adversely affected. Regulatory Risks of Real Estate Lending and Concentrations Commercial real estate (“CRE”) is cyclical and poses risks of possible loss due to concentration levels and similar risks of the asset, especially since the Company had 55.6% of its portfolio in CRE loans at year-end 2007 and 52.9% for 2006. The banking regulators are giving CRE lending greater scrutiny, and may require banks with higher levels of CRE loans to implement improved underwriting, internal controls, risk management policies and portfolio stress testing, as well as possibly higher levels of allowances for possible losses and capital levels as a result of CRE lending growth and exposures. During 2007, the Company added $12.7 million in provisions for loan losses compared to $3.3 million in 2006, in part reflecting collateral evaluations in response to recent changes in the market value for residential real estate collateralizing land and acquisition and development loans. Sales of residential real estate and mortgage loan production fell in 2006 and 2007, adversely affecting loan demand, deposit growth, fee income from mortgage production and sale, and liquidity of certain of our collateral. Real estate activity and values in our market have declined in recent periods, and these conditions persist. Attractive acquisition opportunities may not be available to us in the future. While we seek continued organic growth, we will continue to consider the acquisition of other businesses. We expect that other banking and financial companies, many of which have significantly greater resources, will compete with us to acquire financial services businesses. This competition could increase prices for potential acquisitions that we believe are attractive. Also, acquisitions are subject to various regulatory approvals. If we fail to receive the appropriate regulatory approvals, we will not be able to consummate an acquisition that we believe is in our best interests. Among other things, our regulators consider our capital, liquidity, profitability, regulatory compliance and levels of goodwill and intangibles when considering acquisition and expansion proposals. Any acquisition could be dilutive to our earnings and shareholders’ equity per share of our common stock. Our cost of funds may increase as a result of general economic conditions, interest rates and competitive pressures. Our cost of funds may increase as a result of general economic conditions, interest rates and competitive pressures. We have traditionally obtained funds principally through local deposits and we have a base of lower cost transaction deposits. Our deposits also increased due to acquisitions in 2005 and 2006, and insurance and other payments received by our customers as a result of hurricanes in 2004 and 2005. Generally, we believe local deposits are a cheaper and more stable source of funds than other borrowings because interest rates paid for local deposits are typically lower than interest rates charged for borrowings from other institutional lenders and reflect a mix of transaction and time deposits, whereas brokered deposits typically are higher cost time deposits. Disruption in the capital markets have reduced the availability of funds for financial services companies and increased the cost of and adversely affected the terms and costs of such funds. Our costs of funds and our profitability and liquidity are likely to be adversely affected to the extent we have to rely upon higher cost borrowings from other institutional lenders or brokers to fund loan demand, and changes in our deposit mix and growth could adversely affect our profitability and the ability to expand our loan portfolio. Our profitability and liquidity may be affected by changes in interest rates and economic conditions. Our profitability depends upon net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on assets, and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Net interest income will be adversely affected if market interest rates change such that the interest we pay on deposits and borrowings increases faster than the interest earned on loans and investments. Interest rates, 15 Table of Contents and consequently our results of operations, are affected by general economic conditions (domestic and foreign) and fiscal and monetary policies. Monetary and fiscal policies may materially affect the level and direction of interest rates. From June 2004 to mid-2006, the Federal Reserve raised the federal funds rate from 1.0% to 5.25%. Since then, beginning in September 2007, the Federal Reserve decreased the federal funds rates by 100 basis points to 4.25% over the remainder of 2007, and has since reduced the rate by an additional 125 basis points to 3.00% in January 2008. Decreases in interest rates generally increase the market values of fixed-rate, interest-bearing investments and loans held. However, the production of mortgages and other loans and the value of collateral securing our loans, are dependent on demand within the markets we serve, as well as interest rates. The levels of sales, as well as the values of real estate in our markets have declined. Declining rates are indicative of efforts by the Federal Reserve to stimulate the economy and may or may not be effective in the short term, affecting our liquidity and earnings. Our future success is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in highly competitive markets. We operate in the highly competitive markets of Martin, St. Lucie, Brevard, Indian River, Palm Beach and Broward Counties in southeastern Florida, the Orlando, Florida metropolitan statistical area, as well as in more rural counties in the Lake Okeechobee, Florida region. Our future growth and success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in these markets. We compete for loans, deposits and other financial services in geographic markets with other local, regional and national commercial banks, thrifts, credit unions, mortgage lenders, and securities and insurance brokerage firms. Many of our competitors offer products and services different from us, and have substantially greater resources, name recognition and market presence than we do, which benefits them in attracting business. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we can, and have broader customer and geographic bases to draw upon. We operate in a heavily regulated environment. Seacoast and its subsidiaries are regulated by several regulators, including the Federal Reserve, the OCC, the SEC, the FDIC and FINRA. Our success is affected by state and federal regulations affecting banks and bank holding companies, and the securities markets and securities and insurance regulators. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors, not shareholders. The financial services industry also is subject to frequent legislative and regulatory changes and proposed changes, the effects of which cannot be predicted. Federal bank regulatory agencies are evaluating the regulation of bank capital, liquidity and risk management, and changes, if any, could require us to maintain more capital and liquidity, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability. 16 Table of Contents We are subject to internal control reporting requirements that increase compliance costs and failure to comply timely could adversely affect our reputation and the value of our securities. We are required to comply with various corporate governance and financial reporting requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules and regulations adopted by the SEC, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and Nasdaq. In particular, we are required to include management and independent auditor reports on internal controls as part of our annual report on Form 10-K pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We expect to continue to spend significant amounts of time and money on compliance with these rules. Our failure to comply with these internal control rules may materially adversely affect our reputation, ability to obtain the necessary certifications to financial statements, and the value of our securities. Technological changes affect our business, and we may have fewer resources than many competitors to invest in technological improvements. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to serving clients better, the effective use of technology may increase efficiency and may enable financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to use technology to provide products and services that provide convenience to customers and to create additional efficiencies in operations. We may need to make significant additional capital investments in technology in the future, and we may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services. Many competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. The anti-takeover provisions in our articles of incorporation and under Florida law may make it more difficult for takeover attempts that have not been approved by our board of directors. Florida law and Seacoast’s articles of incorporation include anti-takeover provisions, such as provisions that encourage persons seeking to acquire control of Seacoast to consult with our board, and which enable the board to negotiate and give consideration on behalf of Seacoast and our shareholders and other constituencies to the merits of any offer made. Such provisions, as well as supermajority voting and quorum requirements and a staggered board of directors, may make any takeover attempts and other acquisitions of interests in Seacoast that have not been approved by our board of directors more difficult and more expensive. These provisions may discourage possible business combinations that a majority of our shareholders may believe to be desirable and beneficial. Hurricanes or other adverse weather events would negatively affect Seacoast’s local economies or disrupt Seacoast’s operations, which would have an adverse effect on Seacoast’s business or results of operations. Seacoast’s market areas in Florida are susceptible to hurricanes and tropical storms and related flooding and wind damage. Such weather events can disrupt operations, result in damage to properties and negatively affect the local economies in the markets where they operate. Seacoast cannot predict whether or to what extent damage that may be caused by future hurricanes will affect its operations or the economies in Seacoast’s current or future market areas, but such weather events could result in a decline in loan originations, a decline in the value or destruction of properties securing our loans and an increase in the delinquencies, foreclosures or loan losses. Our business or results of operations may be adversely affected by these and other negative effects of future hurricanes or tropical storms, including flooding and wind damage. Many of our customers have incurred significantly higher property and casualty insurance premiums on their properties located in our markets, which may adversely affect real estate sales and values in our markets. 17 Table of Contents Our allowance for loan losses may prove inadequate or we may be negatively affected by credit risk exposures. Our business depends on the creditworthiness of our customers. We periodically review our allowance for loan losses for adequacy considering economic conditions and trends, collateral values and credit quality indicators, including past charge-off experience and levels of past due loans and nonperforming assets. We cannot be certain that our allowance for loan losses will be adequate over time to cover credit losses in our portfolio because of unanticipated adverse changes in the economy, market conditions or events adversely affecting specific customers, industries or markets. If the credit quality of our customer base materially decreases, if the risk profile of a market, industry or group of customers changes materially or weaknesses in the real estate markets persist or worsen, or if our allowance for loan losses is not adequate, our business, financial condition, including our liquidity and capital, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 18 Table of Contents 