Item 1A. Risk Factors We are subject to numerous known and unknown risks, many of which are described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report. Any of the events described below could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of, or that we currently deem to be immaterial, could also impact our business and results of operations. We are dependent on the semiconductor industry which, as a whole, is volatile. Our business is significantly dependent on capital expenditures and component requirements for manufacturers in the semiconductor industry. This industry is cyclical and has historically experienced periods of oversupply, resulting in significantly reduced demand for capital equipment, including the products manufactured and marketed by us. For the foreseeable future, our operations will continue to be dependent on the capital expenditures in this industry, which in turn is largely dependent on the market demand in the semiconductor markets. We have been dependent on sales to one large customer; the loss of this customer or expected near-term reduction in orders from this customer would materially affect our sales. During fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006, sales to Canon, our largest customer in those periods, accounted for 19%, 27%, and 36% of our net sales, respectively. We expect that sales to Canon will continue to represent a significant, yet declining, percentage of our net sales for the near future. Canon is an original investor in our company, the owner at June 30, 2008 of approximately 7% of our outstanding shares of common stock, and is a distributor of certain of our products in the Japanese market. A reduction or delay in orders from this customer, including reductions or delays due to market, economic, or competitive conditions in the industries in which we or our customer serves, could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations. Our customers, including Canon, generally do not enter into long-term agreements obligating them to purchase our products. Our substantial international sales are subject to risk. We sell our products internationally, primarily to customers in Japan and throughout the Pacific Rim. Net sales to customers outside the United States accounted for approximately 52%, 61%, and 65% of our net sales in each of the fiscal years ended June 30, 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively, and are expected to continue to account for a substantial percentage of our net sales. International sales and foreign operations are subject to inherent risks. These risks include the economic conditions in these various foreign countries and their trading partners, political instability, longer payment cycles, greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection, compliance with foreign laws, changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs or other barriers, difficulties in obtaining export licenses, staffing and managing foreign operations, exposure to currency exchange fluctuations, transportation delays, and potentially adverse tax consequences. Our sales and costs are negotiated and paid primarily in U.S. dollars. However, changes in the values of foreign currencies relative to the value of the U.S. dollar can render our products comparatively more expensive to the extent locally produced alternative products are available. Such conditions could negatively affect international sales of our products and foreign operations, as would changes in the general economic conditions in those markets. For our sales that are based in local currency, we are exposed to foreign exchange fluctuations from the time customers are invoiced in local currency until collection occurs. For fiscal 2008, approximately 24% of our sales were denominated in foreign currencies. We hedge certain intercompany transactions by entering into forward contracts to reduce the impact of adverse fluctuations on earnings associated with foreign currency exchange rate changes. We do not enter into any derivative transactions for speculative purposes. These contracts are entered into for periods consistent with the currency transaction exposures, generally three to nine months. Generally, any gains and losses on the fair value of these contracts are expected to be largely offset by gains and losses on the underlying transactions. There can be no assurance that risks inherent in international sales and foreign operations will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the future. Acquisitions may entail certain operational and financial risks. Our growth strategy includes expanding our products and services, and we may seek acquisitions to strategically expand our business. We regularly review potential acquisitions of businesses, technologies, or products complementary to our business and periodically engage in discussions regarding such possible acquisitions. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including some or all of the following: substantial cash expenditures and capital investments; potentially dilutive issuance of equity securities; incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities; amortization of certain intangible assets; difficulties in assimilating the operations and products of the acquired companies; diverting our management’s attention away from other business concerns; risks of entering markets in which we have limited or no direct experience; the inability to manage the growth expected for various acquisitions; potential loss of key employees of the acquired companies in the process of integrating personnel with disparate business backgrounds; and combining different corporate cultures. 11 We cannot assure you that any acquisition, including the acquisition of the Solvision, Inc. assets which generated losses in fiscal 2008, will result in long-term benefits to us or that our management will be able to effectively manage the acquired businesses. We may also incorrectly judge the value or worth of an acquired company or business. We have in the past disposed or divested ourselves of several companies or lines of business that previously were acquired by us, at a significant net loss to us. Our quarterly operating results fluctuate and may continue to fluctuate in the future. Our quarterly and annual operating results have varied in the past and may vary significantly in the future depending on factors such as: budgeting cycles of our customers; the size, timing, and recognition of revenue from significant orders; increased competition; our ability to develop innovative products; the timing of new product releases by us or our competitors; market acceptance of our products; changes in our and our competitors’ pricing policies; changes in operating expenses and personnel changes; the effect of our acquisitions and consequent integration; changes in our business strategy; and general economic factors. Due to these and other factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful. You should not rely on our results for one quarter as any indication of our future performance. In future periods, our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts or investors. If this occurs, the price of our common stock would likely decrease. Current conditions in the domestic and global economies are extremely uncertain. As a result, it is difficult to estimate the level of growth for the economy as a whole or of capital expenditures in the semiconductor and industrial markets. Because all of the components of our budgeting and forecasting are dependent on estimates of spending within these markets, the prevailing economic uncertainty renders estimates of future revenue and expenses even more difficult than usual to make. Our scheduled backlog may not result in future sales. We schedule the production of our systems based in part upon order backlog. Due to possible customer changes in delivery schedules and cancellations of orders, our backlog at any particular date is not necessarily indicative of actual sales for any succeeding period. There can be no assurance that amounts included in our backlog will ultimately result in future sales. We have experienced push-outs and cancellations in the semiconductor capital equipment and electro-optics sectors. A reduction in backlog during any particular period, or the failure of our backlog to result in future sales could adversely affect our results of operations. Our lengthy sales cycle could affect our manufacturing schedule and cause us to incur expenses without realizing sales. Our lengthy and variable qualification and sales cycle makes it difficult to predict the timing of a sale or whether a sale will be made, which may cause us to have excess manufacturing capacity or inventory and negatively affect our operating results. As is typical in the industry, our customers generally expend significant efforts in evaluating and qualifying our products and manufacturing process. This evaluation and qualification process frequently results in a lengthy sales cycle, typically ranging from three to six months and sometimes longer. While our customers are evaluating our products and before they place an order with us, we may incur substantial sales, marketing, and research and development expenses, expend significant management efforts, increase manufacturing capacity and order long-lead-time supplies prior to receiving an order. Even after this evaluation process, it is possible that a potential customer will not purchase our products. In addition, product purchases are frequently subject to unplanned processing and other delays, particularly with respect to larger customers for which our products represent a very small percentage of their overall purchase activity. If we increase capacity and order supplies in anticipation of an order that does not materialize, our gross margins may be negatively impacted, and we may have to carry or write off excess inventory. Even if we receive an order, the additional manufacturing capacity that we add to service the customer’s requirements may be underutilized in a subsequent quarter. Either situation could cause our results of operations to be adversely affected. Our long sales cycles also may cause our revenues and operating results to vary significantly and unexpectedly from quarter to quarter. We face risks associated with manufacturing forecasts. If we fail to predict our manufacturing requirements accurately, we could incur additional costs or experience manufacturing delays, which could cause us to lose orders or customers and result in lower net sales. We currently use a rolling 12-month forecast based primarily on our anticipated product orders and our product order history to help determine our requirements for components and materials. It is very important that we accurately predict both the demand for our products and the lead-time required to obtain the necessary components and raw materials. Lead times for materials and components that we order vary significantly and depend on factors such as the specific supplier, the size of the order, contract terms, and demand for each component at a given time. If we underestimate our requirements, we may have inadequate manufacturing capacity or inventory, which could interrupt manufacturing of our products and result in delays in shipments and net sales. If we overestimate our requirements, we could have excess inventory of parts. In addition, delays in the manufacturing of our products could cause us to lose orders or customers. 12 Our stock price may fluctuate significantly due to a variety of risks. We believe that factors such as the announcement of new products or technologies by us or our competitors, market conditions in the semiconductor and industrial markets, and quarterly fluctuations in financial results are expected to cause the market price of our common stock to vary substantially. Further, our net sales or results of operations in future quarters may be below the expectations of public market securities analysts and investors. In such event, the price of the common stock would likely decline. In addition, historically the stock market has experienced price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices for many high technology companies and which often have been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. The market volatility may adversely affect the market price of shares of our common stock. Furthermore, our common stock trading price may be more susceptible to market fluctuations due to the relatively small public float and trading volume of our stock. We operate in a highly competitive industry. We face competition from a number of companies in all our markets, many of which have greater manufacturing and marketing capabilities, and greater financial, technological, and personnel resources. In addition, we compete with the internal development efforts of our current and prospective customers, some of which may attempt to become vertically integrated. Our competitors can be expected to continue to improve the design and performance of their products and to introduce new products with competitive price/performance characteristics. Competitive pressures may necessitate price reductions, which can adversely affect results of operations. Although we believe that we have certain technical and other advantages over some of our competitors, maintaining such advantages will require a continued high level of investment by our company in research and development and sales, marketing, and service. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient resources to continue to make such investments or that we will be able to make the technological advances necessary to maintain such competitive advantages. In addition, due to historical relationships and possible prior investments by potential customers in competitive product lines, it may be more difficult for us to realize upon certain of our growth strategies and initiatives. There can be no assurance that the basis of competition in the industries in which we compete will not shift. Our inability to anticipate and keep pace with rapidly changing technological developments in the markets in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business. The market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology. Our future success will continue to depend upon our ability to enhance our current products and to develop and introduce new products that keep pace with technological developments and evolving industry standards, respond to changes in customer requirements, and achieve market acceptance. The development of new technologically advanced products is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation, as well as the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. With continuing advances in technology, potential product advancements require an increasing allocation of resources, including potentially more resources than we then would have available. We commit significant financial and personnel resources on a continuous basis to redesign and enhance our instruments, systems, and components and upgrade our proprietary software technology incorporated in our products. Any failure by us to anticipate or respond adequately to technological developments and customer requirements, or any significant delays in product development or introduction, could have a material adverse effect on our business and impact our close relationships with customers. This could have an impact on customers’ willingness to share proprietary information about their requirements and participate in collaborative efforts with us. There can be no assurance that our customers will continue to provide us with timely access to such information, that we will be successful in developing and marketing new products and services or product and service enhancements on a timely basis, or respond effectively to technological changes or new product announcements by others. In addition, there can be no assurance the new products and services or product enhancements, if any, which we developed will achieve market acceptance. We may be unable to enforce or defend our ownership and use of proprietary technology. Our success is heavily dependent upon our proprietary technology. There can be no assurance that the steps taken by us to protect our proprietary technology will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology by third parties or will be adequate under the laws of some foreign countries, which may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do laws of the United States. In addition, there remains the possibility that others will “reverse engineer” our products in order to determine their method of operation and introduce competing products or that others will develop competing technology independently. Any such adverse circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our business depends on management and technical personnel who are in great demand. Our success depends in large part upon the continued services of many of our highly skilled personnel involved in management, research, development and engineering, sales and marketing, manufacturing, and support and upon our ability to attract and retain additional highly qualified employees. Our employees may voluntarily terminate their employment with us at any time. Competition for these individuals from a variety of employers, including our competitors and companies in computer or technology-related industries, at times is intense. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our existing personnel or attract and retain additional personnel. 13 We are exposed to significant delays and additional costs if we do not receive adequate or timely supplies of raw materials and other supplies upon which we depend. We are dependent on suppliers for raw materials and various electrical, mechanical, and optical supplies. Although we enter, either directly or through our contract manufacturers, into purchase orders with our suppliers based on our forecasts, we do not have any guaranteed supply arrangements with these suppliers. Moreover, as our demand for supplies increases, we may not be able to obtain these supplies in a timely manner. If any relationship with a key supplier is terminated or if a supplier fails or is unable to provide reliable services or equipment and we are unable to reach suitable alternative solutions quickly, we may experience significant delays and additional costs in the manufacturing of our products. If our key suppliers cease manufacturing the supplies we require, if their manufacturing operations are interrupted for any significant amount of time, or if they are unable or unwilling to supply us for any other reason, including capacity constraints, then we may be at least temporarily unable to obtain these supplies, thus exposing us to significant delays and additional costs. Currently there are only a limited number of companies that are capable of supplying optical materials in the quantity and of the quality we require. We assemble our FPD systems in Taiwan through a third party. We are dependent on the third party to assemble the systems accurately and on a timely basis. To the extent the quality of work, including any individual unit, causes delays or cancellations in shipments to our customers, our results could be adversely affected. Our products may contain defects that are undetected until after our products are installed which may lead to a loss of reputation and customers. Our products are deployed in large and complex systems and may contain defects that are not detected until after our products have been installed, which could damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers. We design some of our products for deployment in large and complex optical networks. Because of the nature of these products, they can only be fully tested for reliability when deployed in networks for long periods of time. Our customers may discover defects in our products only after they have been fully deployed and operated under peak stress conditions. In addition, our products are combined with products from other vendors. As a result, should problems occur, it might be difficult to identify the source of the problem. These conditions increase the risk that we could experience, among other things: loss of customers; damage to our brand reputation; failure to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance; diversion of development and engineering resources; and legal actions by our customers. The occurrence of any one or more of the foregoing factors could cause us to experience losses, incur liabilities, and cause our net sales to decline. We may be unprepared for changes to environmental laws and regulations and may have liabilities arising from environmental matters. Environmental regulations applicable to our manufacturing operations could limit our ability to expand or subject us to substantial costs. We are subject to a variety of environmental regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge, and disposal of hazardous chemicals used during our manufacturing processes. Any failure by us to comply with present and future regulations could subject us to future liabilities or the suspension of production. In addition, such regulations could restrict our ability to expand our facilities or could require us to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses to comply with environmental regulations. Our investments in marketable securities may lose their value if economic conditions were to deteriorate. Our marketable securities represent approximately 13% of our total assets at June 30, 2008. To the extent credit markets tighten, interest rates increase, or other economic conditions influence the liquidity of our marketable securities, the value and liquidity of our marketable securities may be adversely affected. In addition, we may have to record an impairment charge for marketable securities if we determine that an other-than-temporary decline in the fair value of a marketable security has taken place. For fiscal 2008, we have recorded an impairment charge for a marketable security of $0.3 million. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have received no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the SEC that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our fiscal year 2008 that remain unresolved. 14 