Item 1A. Risk Factors Any of the following risks could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition and an investment in our stock. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Risks Related to Our Business There can be no assurance that recent legislation and administrative actions authorizing the U.S. government to take direct actions within the financial services industry will help stabilize the U.S. financial system. EESA was enacted on October 3, 2008. Under EESA, the Treasury has the authority to, among other things, invest in financial institutions and purchase up to $700 billion of troubled assets and mortgages from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. The Treasury announced its CPP, under which it committed to purchase up to $250 billion of preferred stock and warrants in eligible institutions. The Congressional Budget Office reports that, as of December 31, 2008, the Treasury had purchased $178 billion in shares of preferred stock and warrants from 214 U.S. financial institutions. EESA also temporarily increased FDIC deposit insurance coverage to $250,000 per depositor through December 31, 2009. On February 10, 2009, the Treasury announced the Financial Stability Plan which, among other things, provides a forward-looking supervisory capital assessment program that is mandatory for the banking institutions with over $100 billion of assets and makes capital available to financial institutions qualifying under a process and criteria similar to the CPP. In addition, the ARRA was signed into law on February 17, 2009, and includes, among other things, extensive new restrictions on the compensation and governance arrangements of financial institutions. Numerous actions by the Federal Reserve, the U.S. Congress, the Treasury, the FDIC, the SEC and others to address the current liquidity and credit crisis that has followed the sub-prime mortgage crisis that commenced in 2007. These measures include fiscal and monetary policy actions described under “Fiscal and Monetary Policy” and “Recent Legislative and Regulatory Changes.” We cannot predict the actual effects of EESA, the ARRA and various governmental, regulatory, monetary and fiscal initiatives which have been and may be enacted will have on the financial markets, on us and on Seacoast National. The terms and costs of these activities, or the failure of these actions to help stabilize the financial markets, asset prices, market liquidity and a continuation or worsening of current financial market 20 and economic conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and the trading prices of our securities. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected our industry and us. We are exposed to downturns in the U.S. economy, and particularly the local markets in which we operate in Florida. Declines in the housing markets over the past year and a half, including falling home prices and sales volumes, and increasing foreclosures, have negatively affected the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities as well as major commercial and investment banks, as well as Seacoast National. These write-downs have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including other financial institutions. This market turmoil and the tightening of credit have led to increased levels of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and reductions in business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets has adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not expect that the difficult conditions in the financial markets are likely to improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and other financial institutions. In particular: • We expect to face increased regulation of our industry, including as a result of EESA, the ARRA and related initiatives by the U.S. government. Compliance with such regulations may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. • Market developments and government programs may continue to adversely affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in borrower behaviors and payment rates, resulting in further increases in delinquencies and default rates, which could affect our loan charge-offs and our provisions for credit losses. • Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers or to estimate the values of our assets and collateral for loans will be reduced if the models and approaches we use become less predictive of future behaviors, valuations, assumptions or estimates. We estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure, the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses and the values of certain assets by using estimates based on difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including estimates as to the effects of economic conditions and how these economic conditions might affect the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans or the value of assets. • Our ability to borrow from other financial institutions on favorable terms or at all, or to raise capital, could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including, among other things, deteriorating investor expectations. • Failures of other depository institutions in our markets and increasing consolidation of financial services companies as a result of current market conditions could increase our deposits and assets, necessitating additional capital, and may have unexpected adverse effects upon our ability to compete effectively. Nonperforming asset take significant time and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. At December 31, 2008, our nonperforming loans (which consist of non-accrual loans) totaled $86.9 million, or 5.18% of the loan portfolio. At December 31, 2008, our nonperforming assets (which include foreclosed real estate) were $92.0 million, or 3.97% of assets. In addition, we had approximately $13.9 million in accruing loans that were 30-89 days delinquent at December 31, 2008. Our non-performing assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. We do not record interest income on non-accrual loans or other real estate owned, thereby adversely affecting our income, and increasing our loan administration costs. These loans also increase our risk profile. While we have reduced our problem assets through loan sales, workouts, restructuring and otherwise, decreases in the value of these assets, or the underlying collateral, or in these 21 borrowers’ performance or financial conditions, whether or not due to economic and market conditions beyond our control, could adversely affect our business results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the resolution of nonperforming assets requires significant commitments of time from management and our directors, which can be detrimental to the performance of their other responsibilities. There can be no assurance that we will not experience further increases in nonperforming loans in the future. Our allowance for loan losses may prove inadequate or we may be negatively affected by credit risk exposures. Our business depends on the creditworthiness of our customers. We periodically review our allowance for loan losses for adequacy considering economic conditions and trends, collateral values and credit quality indicators, including past charge-off experience and levels of past due loans and nonperforming assets. We cannot be certain that our allowance for loan losses will be adequate over time to cover credit losses in our portfolio because of unanticipated adverse changes in the economy, market conditions or events adversely affecting specific customers, industries or markets, or borrower behaviors towards repaying their loans. If the credit quality of our customer base or their debt service behavior materially decreases, if the risk profile of a market, industry or group of customers changes materially or weaknesses in the real estate markets and other economics persist or worsen, or if our allowance for loan losses is not adequate, our business, financial condition, including our liquidity and capital, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Higher cost of insuring our deposits. FDIC insurance premiums have increased substantially in 2009 already and we expect to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums in the future. Market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits, and the FDIC adopted a revised risk-based deposit insurance assessment schedule on February 27, 2009 when it also raised deposit insurance premiums and proposed special assessments on FDIC members see “FDIC Insurance Assessments”. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial condition or performance. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience adverse effects, which may be material, on our ability to maintain or access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Liquidity risks could affect operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our funding sources include federal funds purchased, securities sold under repurchase agreements, non-core deposits, and short- and long-term debt. We are also members of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta and the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, where we can obtain advances collateralized with eligible assets. We maintain a portfolio of securities that can be used as a secondary source of liquidity. There are other sources of liquidity available to us or Seacoast National should they be needed, including our ability to acquire additional non-core deposits, the issuance and sale of debt securities, and the issuance and sale of preferred or common securities in public or private transactions. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance or capitalize our activities or on terms which are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Our liquidity, on a parent only basis, is adversely affected by our current inability to receive dividends from Seacoast National without prior regulatory approval, offset by approximately $39.2 million of cash and short-term investments currently held by us at December 31, 2008 due to receipt of TARP CPP. We anticipate that at least some of these funds will need to be invested in Seacoast National by March 31, 2009 to meet OCC total risk-based capital requirements. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as further disruption in the financial markets 22 or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding and other transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems, losses of depositor, creditor and counterparty confidence and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. We could encounter difficulties as a result of our growth. Our loans, deposits, fee businesses and employees have increased as a result of our organic growth and acquisitions. Our failure to successfully manage and support this growth with sufficient human resources, training and operational, financial and technology resources in challenging markets and economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We may not be able to sustain or manage our growth or additional growth may be encountered due to adverse changes, consolidations and failures among our competitors. We are required to maintain capital to meet regulatory requirements, and if we fail to maintain sufficient capital, because we are unable to raise additional capital or otherwise, our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations would be adversely affected. Both we and Seacoast National must meet regulatory capital requirements and maintain sufficient liquidity. In addition, we may need to raise additional capital to support our business or provide additional capital to absorb losses. Our ability to raise additional capital, when and if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, including investor perceptions regarding the banking industry and market condition, and governmental activities, many of which are outside our control, and on our financial condition and performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we fail to meet these capital and other regulatory requirements, our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Our failure to remain “well capitalized” for bank regulatory purposes could affect customer confidence, our ability to grow, our costs of funds and FDIC insurance costs, our ability to pay dividends on common stock, and our ability to make acquisitions, and our business, results of operation and financial conditions, generally. Sales of additional capital could dilute existing shareholders. Issuances of our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock could dilute the interests of our existing common shareholders or require shareholders to approve an increase in the number of shares of common stock we are authorized to issue and could increase the number of shares of common stock we are required to issue under the warrant we issued to the Treasury under the TARP CPP. Weaknesses in the real estate markets, including the secondary market for residential mortgage loans have adversely affected us and may continue to adversely affect us. The effects of ongoing mortgage market challenges, combined with the ongoing correction in residential real estate market prices and reduced levels of home sales, could result in further price reductions in single family home values, adversely affecting further the liquidity and value of collateral securing commercial loans for residential land acquisition, construction and development, as well as residential mortgage loans and residential property collateral securing loans that we hold, mortgage loan originations and gains on sale of mortgage loans. Declining real estate prices have caused higher delinquencies and losses on certain mortgage loans, generally, particularly second lien mortgages and home equity lines of credit. Significant ongoing 23 disruptions in the secondary market for residential mortgage loans have limited the market for and liquidity of most residential mortgage loans other than conforming Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac loans. These trends could continue, notwithstanding various government programs to boost the residential mortgage markets and stabilize the housing markets. Continued declines in real estate values, home sales volumes and financial stress on borrowers as a result of job losses, interest rate resets on adjustable rate mortgage loans or other factors could have further adverse effects on borrowers that result in higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods, which would adversely affect our financial condition, including capital and liquidity, or results of operations. In the event our allowance for loan losses is insufficient to cover such losses, our earnings, capital and liquidity could be adversely affected. Our real estate portfolios are exposed to weakness in the Florida housing market and the overall state of the economy. The declines in home prices in the Florida housing market, along with the reduced availability of certain types of mortgage credit, have resulted in increases in delinquencies and losses in our portfolios of home equity lines and loans, and commercial loans related to residential real estate acquisition, construction and development. Further declines in home prices coupled with an economic recession and associated rises in unemployment levels could drive losses beyond that which is provided for in the allowance for loan losses. In that event, our earnings, financial condition, including our capital and liquidity, could be adversely affected. Commercial real estate (“CRE”) is cyclical and poses risks of possible loss due to concentration levels and similar risks of the asset, especially since we had 53.5% of our portfolio in CRE loans at year-end 2008 and 55.6% for 2007. The banking regulators continue to give CRE lending greater scrutiny, and require banks with higher levels of CRE loans to implement improved underwriting, internal controls, risk management policies and portfolio stress testing, as well as higher levels of allowances for possible losses and capital levels as a result of CRE lending growth and exposures. During 2008, we added $88.6 million of provisions for loan losses compared to $12.7 million in 2007 and $3.3 million in 2006, in part reflecting collateral evaluations in response to recent changes in the market value for residential real estate collateralizing land and acquisition and development loans. Sales of residential real estate and mortgage loan production fell in 2006, 2007 and 2008, adversely affecting loan demand, deposit growth, fee income from mortgage production and sale, and liquidity of certain of our collateral. Real estate activity and values in our market have declined in recent periods, as these conditions persisted. Our cost of funds may increase as a result of general economic conditions, FDIC insurance assessments, interest rates and competitive pressures. Our cost of funds may increase as a result of general economic conditions, FDIC insurance assessments, interest rates and competitive pressures. We have traditionally obtained funds principally through local deposits and we have a base of lower cost transaction deposits. Our deposits also increased due to acquisitions in 2005 and 2006. Generally, we believe local deposits are a cheaper and more stable source of funds than other borrowings because interest rates paid for local deposits are typically lower than interest rates charged for borrowings from other institutional lenders and reflect a mix of transaction and time deposits, whereas brokered deposits typically are higher cost time deposits. Our costs of funds and our profitability and liquidity are likely to be adversely affected to the extent we have to rely upon higher cost borrowings from other institutional lenders or brokers to fund loan demand or liquidity needs, and changes in our deposit mix and growth could adversely affect our profitability and the ability to expand our loan portfolio. Our profitability and liquidity may be affected by changes in interest rates and economic conditions. Our profitability depends upon net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on assets, and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Net interest income will be adversely affected if market interest rates change such that the interest we pay on deposits and borrowings and our FDIC deposit insurance assessments increase faster than the interest earned on loans and investments. Interest rates, and consequently our results of operations, are affected by general economic conditions (domestic and foreign) and fiscal and monetary policies. Monetary and fiscal policies may 24 materially affect the level and direction of interest rates. From June 2004 to mid-2006, the Federal Reserve raised the federal funds rate from 1.0% to 5.25%. Since then, beginning in September 2007, the Federal Reserve decreased the federal funds rates by 100 basis points to 4.25% over the remainder of 2007, and has since reduced the target federal funds rate by an additional 400 basis points to zero to 25 basis points in December 2008. Decreases in interest rates generally increase the market values of fixed-rate, interest-bearing investments and loans held, and increase the values of loan sales and mortgage loan activities. However, the production of mortgages and other loans and the value of collateral securing our loans, are dependent on demand within the markets we serve, as well as interest rates. The levels of sales, as well as the values of real estate in our markets have declined. Declining rates reflect efforts by the Federal Reserve to stimulate the economy and may or may not be effective in the short term, and may affect results of operation and financial condition, liquidity and earnings. Because of our participation in the Treasury’s CPP, we are subject to several restrictions, including restrictions on our ability to declare or pay dividends and repurchase our shares as well as restrictions on our executive compensation. On December 19, 2008, pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, we issued to the Treasury $50,000,000 of our Series A Preferred Stock and a Warrant to purchase 1,179,245 shares of our common stock. The Purchase Agreement limits our ability to declare or pay dividends on any of our shares. Specifically, we are unable to declare dividend payments on common, junior preferred or pari passu preferred shares if we have not fully paid the scheduled dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock. Further, without the Treasury’s prior approval, we are not permitted to increase dividends on our common stock above $0.01, the amount of the last quarterly cash dividend per share declared prior to December 19, 2008 until December 19, 2011, the third anniversary of the investment, unless the Series A Preferred Stock has been redeemed or transferred by the Treasury in full. In addition, our ability to repurchase shares of our, commons stock is restricted. The Treasury’s consent generally is required for us to make any stock repurchases until December 19, 2011, unless all the Series A Preferred Stock has been redeemed or transferred by Treasury to a third party. Further, common, junior preferred or pari passu preferred shares may not be repurchased if we have not fully paid all dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock. We cannot use the proceeds from the sale of the Series A Preferred Stock or the Warrant to redeem any of our trust preferred securities. In the event that we fail to pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock for an aggregate of six quarterly dividend periods or more (whether or not consecutive), the authorized number of directors then constituting our board of directors will be increased by two. Holders of the Series A Preferred Stock, together with the holders of shares of outstanding parity stock, if any, with like voting rights, voting as a single class, will be entitled to elect the two additional members of our board of directors at the next annual meeting (or at a special meeting called for the purpose of electing such directors prior to the next annual meeting) and at each subsequent annual meeting until all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past dividend periods have been paid in full. Holders of the Series A Preferred Stock have certain voting rights that may adversely affect our common shareholders, and the holders of shares of our Series A Preferred Stock may have different interests from, and vote their shares in a manner deemed adversely to our common shareholders. Except as otherwise required by law and in connection with the election of directors to our board of directors in the event that we fail to pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock for an aggregate of at least six quarterly dividend periods (whether or not consecutive), holders of the Series A Preferred Stock have limited voting rights. So long as shares of the Series A Preferred Stock are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of shareholders required by law or our amended and restated charter, the vote or consent of holders owning at least 662/3% of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock outstanding is required for • any authorization or issuance of shares ranking senior to the Series A Preferred Stock; • any amendment to the rights of the Series A Preferred Stock so as to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting power of the Series A Preferred Stock; or 25 • consummation of any merger, share exchange or similar transaction unless the shares of Series A Preferred Stock remain outstanding, or if we are not the surviving entity in such transaction, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving entity and the shares of Series A Preferred Stock remaining outstanding or such preference securities have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting power as are not materially less favorable to the holders than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting power of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock. Holders of Series A Preferred Stock could black the foregoing transitions, even where considered desirable by, or in the best interests of, holders of our common stock. The holders of Series A Preferred Stock, including the Treasury, may have different interests from the holders of our common stock, and could vote to disapprove transactions that are favored by, or are in the best interests of, our common shareholders. The TARP CPP and the ARRA impose certain executive compensation and corporate governance requirements that may adversely affect us and our business. The Purchase Agreement required us to adopt the Treasury’s standards for executive compensation and corporate governance while the Treasury holds the equity issued pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, including the common stock which may be issued pursuant to the Warrant (“TARP Assistance Period”). These standards generally apply to our chief executive officer, chief financial officer and the three next most highly compensated senior executive officers. The standards include: • ensuring that incentive compensation for senior executives does not encourage unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten the value of the financial institution; • required clawback of any bonus or incentive compensation paid to a senior executive based on statements of earnings, gains or other criteria that are later proven to be materially inaccurate; • prohibition on making golden parachute payments to senior executives; and • agreement not to deduct for tax purposes executive compensation in excess of $500,000 for each senior executive. In particular, the change to the deductibility limit on executive compensation may increase the overall cost of our compensation programs in future periods. The ARRA imposed further limitations on compensation during the TARP Assistance Period including: • a prohibition on the making any golden parachute payment to a senior executive officer or any of its next five most highly compensated employees; • a prohibition on any compensation plan that would encourage manipulation of the reported earnings to enhance the compensation of any of its employees; and • a prohibition of the five highest paid executives from receiving or accruing any bonus, retention award, or incentive compensation (“Bonus”) unless the Bonus (a) does not fully vest during the TARP Assistance Period; (b) has a value not greater than one-third of the total amount of annual compensation of the employee receiving the stock; and (c) is subject to such other terms and conditions as the Treasury Secretary may determine are in the public interest. Since the Warrant has a 10 year term, we could potentially be subject to the executive compensation and corporate governance restrictions for 10 years. The prohibition may expand to other employees based on increases in the aggregate value of financial assistance that we receive in the future. For example, if we receive at least $250 million but less than $500 million in TARP financial assistance, the senior executive officers and at least the next 10 most highly compensated employees will be prohibited from receiving or accruing Bonus. 26 These provisions and any rules issued by the Treasury could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain management capable and motivated sufficiently to manage and operate our business through difficult economic and market conditions. TARP lending goals may not be attainable. Congress and the bank regulators are encouraging recipients of TARP capital to use such capital to make loans and it may not be possible to safely, soundly and profitably make sufficient loans to creditworthy persons in the current economy to satisfy such goals. Congressional demands for additional lending by TARP capital recipients, and regulatory demands for demonstrating and reporting such lending are increasing. On November 12, 2008, the bank regulatory agencies issued a statement encouraging banks to, among other things, “lend prudently and responsibly to creditworthy borrowers” and to “work with borrowers to preserve homeownership and avoid preventable foreclosures.” We continue to lend and have expanded our mortgage loan originations. The future demands for additional lending are unclear and uncertain, and we could be forced to make loans that involve risks or terms that we would not otherwise find acceptable or in our shareholders’ best interest. Such loans could adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition, and may be in conflict with bank regulations and requirements as to liquidity and capital. The profitability of funding such loans using deposits may be adversely affect by increased FDIC insurance premiums. Changes in future rules applicable to banks generally or to TARP recipients could adversely affect our operation and our financial condition. The ARRA contains compensation and governance requirements that were not agreed to when we sold the Series A Preferred Stock and Warrant to the Treasury pursuant to the TARP CPP, but which are to be applied to us and all other TARP recipients based on Treasury rules that have not been proposed as of February 25, 2009. The scope and effects of future changes including possible retroactive charges, if any, on TARP recipients including us, cannot be predicted. Any redemption of our Series A Preferred Stock to avoid these restrictions would require prior Federal Reserve approval, and currently we would need additional Tier 1 equity capital to maintain our capital adequacy. Our future success is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in highly competitive markets. We operate in the highly competitive markets of Martin, St. Lucie, Brevard, Indian River, Palm Beach and Broward Counties in southeastern Florida, the Orlando, Florida metropolitan statistical area, as well as in more rural competitive counties in the Lake Okeechobee, Florida region. Our future growth and success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in these markets. We compete for loans, deposits and other financial services in geographic markets with other local, regional and national commercial banks, thrifts, credit unions, mortgage lenders, and securities and insurance brokerage firms. Many of our competitors offer products and services different from us, and have substantially greater resources, name recognition and market presence than we do, which benefits them in attracting business. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we can, and have broader customer and geographic bases to draw upon. We operate in a heavily regulated environment. We and our subsidiaries are regulated by several regulators, including the Federal Reserve, the OCC, the SEC, the FDIC and FINRA, and since December 2008, the Treasury. Our success is affected by state and federal regulations affecting banks and bank holding companies, and the securities markets and securities and insurance regulators. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors, not shareholders. The financial services industry also is subject to frequent legislative and regulatory changes and proposed changes, the effects of which cannot be predicted. Federal bank regulatory agencies and the Treasury, as well as the Congress and the President, are evaluating the regulation of banks, other financial services providers and the financial markets and such changes, if any, could require us to maintain more capital, liquidity and risk management which could adversely affect our growth, profitability and financial condition. 27 We are subject to internal control reporting requirements that increase compliance costs and failure to comply timely could adversely affect our reputation and the value of our securities. We are required to comply with various corporate governance and financial reporting requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules and regulations adopted by the SEC, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and Nasdaq. In particular, we are required to include management and independent auditor reports on internal controls as part of our annual report on Form 10-K pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We expect to continue to spend significant amounts of time and money on compliance with these rules. Our failure to comply with these internal control rules may materially adversely affect our reputation, ability to obtain the necessary certifications to financial statements, and the value of our securities. Technological changes affect our business, and we may have fewer resources than many competitors to invest in technological improvements. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to serving clients better, the effective use of technology may increase efficiency and may enable financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to use technology to provide products and services that provide convenience to customers and to create additional efficiencies in operations. We may need to make significant additional capital investments in technology in the future, and we may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services. Many competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. The anti-takeover provisions in our articles of incorporation and under Florida law may make it more difficult for takeover attempts that have not been approved by our board of directors. Florida law and our articles of incorporation include anti-takeover provisions, such as provisions that encourage persons seeking to acquire control of us to consult with our board, and which enable the board to negotiate and give consideration on behalf of us and our shareholders and other constituencies to the merits of any offer made. Such provisions, as well as supermajority voting and quorum requirements and a staggered board of directors, may make any takeover attempts and other acquisitions of interests in us that have not been approved by our board of directors more difficult and more expensive. These provisions may discourage possible business combinations that a majority of our shareholders may believe to be desirable and beneficial. Hurricanes or other adverse weather events would negatively affect our local economies or disrupt our operations, which would have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Our market areas in Florida are susceptible to hurricanes and tropical storms and related flooding and wind damage. Such weather events can disrupt operations, result in damage to properties and negatively affect the local economies in the markets where they operate. We cannot predict whether or to what extent damage that may be caused by future hurricanes will affect its operations or the economies in our current or future market areas, but such weather events could result in a decline in loan originations, a decline in the value or destruction of properties securing our loans and an increase in the delinquencies, foreclosures or loan losses. Our business or results of operations may be adversely affected by these and other negative effects of future hurricanes or tropical storms, including flooding and wind damage. Many of our customers have incurred significantly higher property and casualty insurance premiums on their properties located in our markets, which may adversely affect real estate sales and values in our markets. Attractive acquisition opportunities may not be available to us in the future. While we seek continued organic growth, we may consider the acquisition of other businesses. We expect that other banking and financial companies, many of which have significantly greater resources, will compete with us to acquire financial services businesses. This competition could increase prices for potential acquisitions that we believe are attractive. Also, acquisitions are subject to various regulatory approvals. If we 28 fail to receive the appropriate regulatory approvals, we will not be able to consummate an acquisition that we believe is in our best interests. Among other things, our regulators consider our capital, liquidity, profitability, regulatory compliance and levels of goodwill and intangibles when considering acquisition and expansion proposals. Any acquisition could be dilutive to our earnings and shareholders’ equity per share of our common stock. Future acquisitions and expansion activities may disrupt our business, dilute shareholder value and adversely affect our operating results. We regularly evaluate potential acquisitions and expansion opportunities. To the extent that we grow through acquisitions, we cannot assure you that we will be able to adequately or profitably manage this growth. Acquiring other banks, branches or businesses, as well as other geographic and product expansion activities, involve various risks including: • risks of unknown or contingent liabilities; • unanticipated costs and delays; • risks that acquired new businesses do not perform consistent with our growth and profitability expectations; • risks of entering new markets or product areas where we have limited experience; • risks that growth will strain our infrastructure, staff, internal controls and management, which may require additional personnel, time and expenditures; • exposure to potential asset quality issues with acquired institutions; • difficulties, expenses and delays of integrating the operations and personnel of acquired institutions, and start-up delays and costs of other expansion activities; • potential disruptions to our business; • possible loss of key employees and customers of acquired institutions; • potential short-term decreases in profitability; and • diversion of our management’s time and attention from our existing operations and business. The amount of the deferred tax asset that is considered realizable could be reduced further from time to time if estimates of future taxable income from our operations and tax planning strategies during the carryforward period are lower than forecasted due to further deterioration in market conditions or other circumstances. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 