Item 1A. Risk Factors We are subject to numerous known and unknown risks, many of which are described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report. Any of the events or conditions described below could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Integration of manufacturing facilities may entail certain operational risk. We regularly review our manufacturing operations to maximize the effectiveness and cost benefit of those operations. As our business evolves, it becomes necessary to rationalize our manufacturing facilities requirements. Securing additional manufacturing facilities or integrating existing manufacturing facilities involve certain risks. These risks include substantial cash expenditures and capital expenditures, potentially in excess of budgeted amounts; difficulties in assimilating or moving existing operations; loss of orders or customers due to the failure to obtain all necessary permits and regulatory approvals, including those that may be required by our customers; diverting management’s attention away from other business concerns; and disruption of manufacturing schedules and forecasted revenue which could adversely affect our results of operations. We are in the process of transitioning our existing Tucson operations into a recently purchased facility in Tucson. General economic conditions and the related deterioration in the global business environment could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Global consumer confidence has eroded amid concerns over, among other things, declining asset values, inflation, volatility in energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, high unemployment and the stability and solvency of financial institutions, financial markets, businesses and sovereign nations. These concerns have slowed global economic growth in numerous countries, including many of those in North America, Europe and Asia, where the Company does substantially all of its business. In addition, the on-going European debt crisis and the downgrade of the United States’ long term sovereign credit rating have negatively affected the financial markets and could continue to weigh on the global business environment. As these economic conditions continue to persist, or if they worsen, a number of negative effects on our business could result, including customers or potential customers reducing or delaying orders, the insolvency of key suppliers which could result in production delays, the inability of customers to obtain credit and the insolvency of one or more customers, certain of which we have already experienced. Any of these effects could impact our ability to effectively manage inventory levels and collect receivables, create unabsorbed costs due to lower net revenues and ultimately decrease our net revenues and profitability, as well as cause us to write-down certain of our assets. Zygo is dependent on the semiconductor industry which, as a whole, is volatile. Our business is somewhat dependent on capital expenditures and component requirements for manufacturers in the semiconductor industry. This industry is cyclical and has historically experienced periods of oversupply, resulting in significantly reduced demand for capital equipment, including the products manufactured and marketed by us. For the foreseeable future, our operations will continue to be dependent on the capital expenditures in this industry, which in turn is largely dependent on the market demand in the semiconductor markets. Zygo could suffer significant business interruptions. Our customers, suppliers and operations may be vulnerable to interruption by natural disasters such as earthquakes, tsunamis, typhoons, or floods, or other disasters such as fires, explosions, acts of terrorism or war, disease or failures of our management information or other systems. If a business interruption occurs, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Zygo is subject to environmental laws and regulations and may have liabilities arising from environmental matters. Zygo is subject to a variety of environmental regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous chemicals used during our manufacturing processes. Any failure by us to comply with applicable regulations could subject us to future liabilities or the suspension of production. We are aware of certain levels of contamination on our property which is below reportable levels. In addition, we are aware of certain contamination on an adjacent property that we formerly owned. The future effect of environmental matters, including potential liabilities, is often difficult to estimate. We are unable to determine or reasonably estimate the amount of cost, if any, that we might incur or for which we may potentially be responsible to remediate the situation or for damages which may have resulted or result from the situation. In addition, environmental regulations could restrict our ability to expand our facilities or could require us to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses to comply with such regulations. Zygo is subject to changes in senior management that could affect the operation of the Company. Unforeseen or anticipated changes in senior management could adversely impact the Company due to a lack of historical knowledge and familiarity with all aspects of the Company’s business and operations by new senior management. 11 Zygo has been dependent on sales to two large customers; the loss of or a reduction in bookings from these customers would materially affect our revenue and profitability. During fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, sales to Canon Inc., one of our largest customers in each of those periods, accounted for 9%, 10%, and 13% of our net revenues, respectively. We expect that sales to Canon will continue to represent a significant percentage of our net revenues for the near future. Canon is an original investor in our Company, the owner at June 30, 2013 of approximately 7% of outstanding shares of our common stock, and is a distributor of certain of our products in the Japanese market. During fiscal 2013, sales to another large customer accounted for 9% of our net revenues. A reduction or delay in orders from these customers, including reductions or delays due to market, economic, or competitive conditions in the industries which we or our customer serve, could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations. Our customers, including these two customers, generally do not enter into long-term agreements obligating them to purchase our products. Our substantial international revenues are subject to risk. Zygo sells products internationally, primarily to customers in Japan, China and Europe. Net revenue from customers outside the United States accounted for approximately 47% of our net revenue in fiscal 2013 and 46% of our net revenue in each of the fiscal years ended June 30, 2012 and 2011 and are expected to continue to account for a substantial percentage of our net revenue. International revenue and foreign operations are subject to inherent risks. These risks include the economic conditions in various foreign countries and their trading partners, political instability, longer payment cycles, potential difficulty in accounts receivable collection, compliance with foreign laws, changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs or other barriers, difficulties in obtaining export licenses, staffing and managing foreign operations, exposure to currency exchange fluctuations, transportation delays and potentially adverse tax consequences. Our revenue and costs are negotiated and paid primarily in U.S. dollars. However, changes in the values of foreign currencies relative to the value of the U.S. dollar can render our products comparatively more expensive to the extent locally produced alternative products are available. Such conditions could negatively affect international revenues of our products and foreign operations, as would changes in the general economic conditions in those markets. Revenues that are recorded in local currency are exposed to foreign exchange fluctuations from the time customers are invoiced in local currency until collection occurs. For fiscal 2013, approximately 24% of our revenues were denominated in foreign currencies. We hedge certain intercompany transactions by entering into forward contracts to reduce the impact of adverse fluctuations on earnings associated with foreign currency exchange rate changes. We do not enter into any derivative transactions for speculative purposes. In some cases, we design hedges such that they qualify for hedge accounting treatment. These contracts are entered into for periods consistent with the currency transaction exposures, generally three to fifteen months. Any gains and losses on the fair value of these contracts are expected to be largely offset by gains and losses on the underlying transactions unless they are qualify for hedge accounting treatment in which case the change in fair value will be charged to accumulated other comprehensive income. There can be no assurance that risks inherent in international revenues and foreign operations will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the future. Zygo may have additional tax liabilities. Zygo is subject to income taxes in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In recent years we recorded a valuation allowance on substantially all of our deferred tax assets, including federal net operating loss carryforwards in the United States. We no longer record a valuation allowance against the federal net operating loss carryforwards and substantially all of the deferred tax assets in the United States. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related tax liabilities could be materially different from our income tax provisions and accruals. The results of audits could have a material effect on our financial statements in the period or periods for which that determination is made. In previous years, we incorrectly recorded deferred tax asset balances. Tax planning strategies could be affected if our deferred tax assets or income tax provisions are misstated. Zygo earns a significant amount of operating income from outside the United States, and any repatriation of funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions may result in higher effective tax rates for the company. A change in the mix of product sold into various jurisdictions or a change in the revenue or profit from foreign jurisdictions could have an adverse effect on the Company’s effective tax rate. In addition, there have been proposals to change U.S. tax laws that would significantly impact how U.S. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. Although we cannot predict whether or in what form any proposed legislation may pass, if enacted it could have a material adverse impact on our tax expense and cash flow. 12 Acquisitions may entail certain operational and financial risks. Our growth strategy includes expanding our products and services, and we may seek acquisitions or make internal investments to strategically expand our business. We regularly review potential acquisitions of businesses, technologies, or products complementary to our business and periodically engage in discussions regarding such possible acquisitions. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including some or all of the following: substantial cash expenditures and capital investments; potentially dilutive issuance of equity securities; incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities; amortization of certain intangible assets; difficulties in assimilating the operations and products of the acquired companies; diverting management’s attention away from other business concerns; risks of entering markets in which we have limited or no direct experience; the inability to manage the growth expected for various acquisitions; potential loss of key employees of the acquired companies in the process of integrating personnel with disparate business backgrounds; and combining different corporate cultures. In addition, we may spend considerable effort and resources to review potential acquisition candidates, which we may elect not to pursue, or we may not actually consummate the transaction. We cannot provide assurance that any acquisition, including the acquisitions of Zemetrics, Solvision, Inc. and the assets of the ASML Inc. Richmond, California operation will result in long-term benefits to us, or that our management will be able to effectively manage the acquired businesses. We may also incorrectly judge the value or worth of an acquired company or business or of a line of business to which we devote internal resources and funding. We have previously disposed of or divested several companies or lines of business that previously were acquired by us or in which we internally invested at a significant net loss to us. Our quarterly operating results fluctuate and may continue to fluctuate in the future. Our quarterly and annual operating results have varied in the past and may vary significantly in the future depending on factors such as: budgeting cycles of our customers; the size, timing and recognition of revenue from significant orders; increased competition; our ability to develop innovative products; the timing of new product releases by us or our competitors; market acceptance of our products; changes in our and our competitors’ pricing policies; changes in operating expenses and personnel changes; the effect of our acquisitions and consequent integration; changes in our business strategy; and general economic factors. Due to these and other factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful. Our results for one quarter should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. In future periods, our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts or investors. If this occurs, the price of our common stock would likely decrease. Current conditions in the domestic and global economies are uncertain. As a result, it is difficult to estimate the level of growth for the economy as a whole or of capital expenditures in the markets we serve, including the semiconductor capital equipment, industrial, bio-medical and scientific markets. Because various components of our budgeting and forecasting are dependent on estimates of spending within these markets, the prevailing economic uncertainty renders estimates of future revenue and expenses more difficult to make. Our scheduled backlog may not result in future revenues. We schedule the production of our systems based in part upon order backlog. Due to possible customer changes in delivery schedules and cancellations of bookings, our backlog at any particular date is not necessarily indicative of actual revenues for any succeeding period. There can be no assurance that amounts included in our backlog will ultimately result in future revenues. We have experienced push-outs and cancellations in the semiconductor capital equipment and electro-optics sectors. A reduction in backlog during any particular period, or the failure of our backlog to result in future revenues could adversely affect our results of operations. Our lengthy revenue cycle could affect our manufacturing schedule and cause us to incur expenses without realizing sales. Our lengthy and variable qualification and sales cycle makes it difficult to predict the timing of a sale or whether a sale will be made, which may cause us to have excess manufacturing capacity or inventory and negatively affect our operating results. As is typical in the industry, our customers generally expend significant efforts in evaluating and qualifying our products and manufacturing process. This evaluation and qualification process frequently results in a lengthy sales cycle, typically ranging from three to twelve months, but it can be longer for complex systems sales. While our customers are evaluating our products and before they place an order with us, we may incur substantial sales, marketing and research and development expenses, expend significant management efforts, increase manufacturing capacity and order long-lead-time supplies prior to receiving an order. Even after this evaluation process, it is possible that a potential customer will not purchase our products. In addition, product purchases are frequently subject to unplanned processing and other delays, particularly with respect to larger customers for whom our products represent a very small percentage of their overall purchasing activity. 13 If we increase capacity and order supplies in anticipation of an order that does not materialize, our gross margins may be negatively impacted, and we may have to carry or write off excess inventory. Even if we receive an order, the additional manufacturing capacity that we add to service the customer’s requirements may be underutilized in a subsequent quarter. Either situation could cause our results of operations to be adversely affected. Our long sales cycles also may cause our revenues and operating results to vary significantly and unexpectedly from quarter to quarter and make us more susceptible to the effects of general economic downturns. Zygo is exposed to significant delays and additional costs if we do not receive adequate or timely supplies of raw materials and other supplies upon which we depend. Zygo is dependent on suppliers for raw materials and various electrical, mechanical and optical supplies. Although we enter into purchase orders with our suppliers either directly or through our contract manufacturers based on our forecasts, we do not have any guaranteed supply arrangements with these suppliers. Moreover, as our demand for supplies increases, we may not be able to obtain these supplies in a timely manner. If any relationship with a key supplier is terminated or if a supplier fails or is unable to provide reliable services or equipment and we are unable to reach suitable alternative solutions quickly, we may experience significant delays and additional costs in the manufacture of our products. If our key suppliers cease manufacturing the supplies we require, if their manufacturing operations are interrupted for any significant period of time, or if they are unable or unwilling to supply us for any other reason, including capacity constraints, then we may be at least temporarily unable to obtain these supplies, thus exposing us to significant delays and additional costs. Currently there are only a limited number of companies that are capable of supplying optical materials in the quantity and of the quality we require. Although we seek to reduce our dependence on limited source suppliers, we may not have qualified a second source for some of these products, and the partial or complete loss of certain of these sources could have a negative impact on our results of operations and damage customer relationships. We face risks associated with manufacturing forecasts. If we fail to predict our manufacturing requirements accurately, we could incur additional costs or experience manufacturing delays, which could cause us to lose orders or customers and result in lower net revenues. We currently use a rolling 12-month forecast based primarily on our anticipated product orders and our product order history to help determine our requirements for components and materials. It is very important that we accurately predict both the demand for our products and the lead-time required to obtain the necessary components and raw materials. Lead times for materials and components that we order vary significantly and depend on factors such as the specific supplier, the size of the order, contract terms and demand for each component at a given time. If we underestimate our requirements, we may have inadequate manufacturing capacity or inventory, which could interrupt manufacturing of our products and result in delays in shipments and net revenues. If we overestimate our requirements, we could have excess inventory of parts. In addition, delays in the manufacturing of our products could cause us to lose orders or customers. Our stock price may fluctuate significantly due to a variety of risks. We believe that factors such as the announcement of new products or technologies by us or our competitors, market conditions in the semiconductor and industrial markets and quarterly fluctuations in financial results can be expected to cause the market price of our common stock to vary substantially. Further, our net revenues or results of operations in future quarters may be below the expectations of public market securities analysts and investors. In such event, the price of our common stock would likely decline. In addition, the stock market has historically experienced price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices for many high technology companies; these variations have often been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. The market volatility may adversely affect the market price of shares of our common stock. Furthermore, our common stock trading price may be more susceptible to market fluctuations due to the relatively small public float and trading volume of our stock and our dependence on a limited number of industries. We operate in a highly competitive industry. We face competition from a number of companies in all our markets, many of which have greater manufacturing and marketing capabilities and greater financial, technological and personnel resources. In addition, we compete with the internal development efforts of our current and prospective customers, some of which may attempt to become vertically integrated. Our competitors can be expected to continue to improve the design and performance of their products and to introduce new products with competitive price/performance characteristics. Competitive pressures may necessitate price reductions, which can adversely affect results of operations. Although we believe that we have certain technical and other advantages over some of our competitors, maintaining such advantages will require a continued high level of investment by our Company in research and development and sales, marketing and service. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient resources to continue to make such investments or that we will be able to make the technological advances necessary to maintain such competitive advantages. In addition, due to historical relationships and possible prior investments by potential customers in competitive product lines, it may be more difficult for us to realize certain of our growth strategies and initiatives. There can be no assurance that the basis of competition in the industries in which we compete will not shift. 14 Our inability to anticipate and keep pace with rapidly changing technological developments in the markets in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business. The market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology. Our future success will continue to depend upon our ability to enhance our current products and to develop and introduce new products that keep pace with technological developments and evolving industry standards, respond to changes in customer requirements and achieve market acceptance. The development of new technologically advanced products is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation, as well as the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. With continuing advances in technology, potential product advancements require an increasing allocation of resources, including potentially more resources than we then would have available. We commit significant financial and personnel resources on a continuous basis to redesign and enhance our instruments, systems and components and upgrade the proprietary software technology incorporated in our products. Any failure to anticipate or respond adequately to technological developments and customer requirements, or any significant delays in product development or introduction, could have a material adverse effect on our business and impact our relationships with customers. This could have an impact on customers’ willingness to share proprietary information about their requirements and participate in collaborative efforts with us. There can be no assurance that our customers will continue to provide us with timely access to such information, that we will be successful in developing and marketing new products and services or product and service enhancements on a timely basis, or respond effectively to technological changes or new product announcements by others. In addition, there can be no assurance the new products and services or product enhancements, if any, which we developed will achieve market acceptance. We may be unable to enforce or defend our ownership and use of proprietary technology. Our success is heavily dependent upon our proprietary technology. There can be no assurance that the steps we take to protect our proprietary technology will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology by third parties or will be adequate under the laws of some foreign countries; those laws may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do laws of the United States. We have been experiencing an increased level of revenue in China and other foreign countries which historically have created concerns for various companies. In addition, the possibility remains that others will “reverse engineer” our products in order to determine their method of operation and introduce competing products, or that others will independently develop competing technology. Any such circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our business depends on management and technical personnel who are in great demand. Our success depends in large part upon the continued services of many of our highly skilled personnel involved in management, research, development and engineering, sales and marketing, manufacturing and support and upon our ability to attract and retain additional highly qualified employees. Our employees may voluntarily terminate their employment with us at any time. At times, competition for these individuals from a variety of employers, including our competitors and companies in computer or technology-related industries, is intense. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to retain our existing personnel or attract and retain additional personnel. Our products may contain defects that are undetected until after our products are installed, which may lead to a loss of reputation and customers. Our products are deployed in large and complex systems and may contain defects that are not detected until after our products have been installed, which could damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers. We design some of our products for deployment in large and complex optical networks. Because of the nature of these products, they can only be fully tested for reliability when deployed in networks for long periods of time. Our customers may discover defects in our products only after they have been fully deployed and operated under peak stress conditions. In addition, our products are combined with products from other vendors. As a result, should problems occur, it could be difficult to identify the source of the problem. These conditions increase the risk that we could experience, among other things: loss of customers; damage to our brand reputation; failure to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance; diversion of development and engineering resources; and legal actions by our customers. The occurrence of any one or more of the foregoing factors could have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations, and damage customer relationships. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have received no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the SEC that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our fiscal year 2013 that remain unresolved. 15 