Risk Factors" which is part of the disclosure included in Part I, Item 1A of this Report. From time to time, oral or written forward-looking statements are also included in our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K, Proxy Statements on Schedule 14A, press releases, analyst and investor conference calls, and other communications released to the public. We believe that at the time made, the expectations reflected in all of these forward-looking statements are and will be reasonable. However, any or all of the forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K, our Proxy Statements on Schedule 14A and any other public statements that are made by us may prove to be incorrect. This may occur as a result of assumptions, which turn out to be inaccurate or as a consequence of known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many factors discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, certain of which are beyond our control, will be important in determining our future performance. Consequently, actual results may differ materially from those that might be anticipated from forward-looking statements. In light of these and other uncertainties, you should not regard the inclusion of any of our forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or other public communications as a representation by us that our plans and objectives will be achieved, and you should not place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. 3 We undertake no obligation, to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. However, your attention is directed to any further disclosures made on related subjects in our subsequent annual and periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K and Proxy Statements on Schedule 14A. Unless the context requires otherwise, references to “we,” “us,” “our,” “NorthWestern Corporation,” “NorthWestern Energy,” and “NorthWestern” refer specifically to NorthWestern Corporation and its subsidiaries. “Predecessor Company” refers to us prior to emergence from bankruptcy (operations prior to October 31, 2004). “Successor Company” refers to us after emergence from bankruptcy (operations after November 1, 2004). 4 GLOSSARY Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (AFUDC) - A regulatory accounting convention that represents the estimated composite interest costs of debt and a return on equity funds used to finance construction. The allowance is capitalized in the property accounts and included in income. Ancillary Services - These services ensure reliability and support the transmission of electricity from generation sites to customer loads. Such services may include: load regulation, spinning reserve, non-spinning reserve, replacement reserve, and voltage support. Base-Load - The minimum amount of electric power or natural gas delivered or required over a given period of time at a steady rate. The minimum continuous load or demand in a power system over a given period of time usually is not temperature sensitive. Base-Load Capacity - The generating equipment normally operated to serve loads on an around-the-clock basis. Colstrip Lease Holdings, LLC (CLH) - An indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of NorthWestern Corporation. Competitive Transition Charges - Out of market energy costs associated with the change of an industry from a regulated, bundled service to a competitive open-access service. Cushion Gas - The natural gas required in a gas storage reservoir to maintain a pressure sufficient to permit recovery of stored gas. Deregulation - In the energy industry, the process by which regulated markets become competitive markets, giving customers the opportunity to choose their energy supplier. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) - A Federal agency charged with protecting the environment. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) - The Federal agency that has jurisdiction over interstate electricity sales, wholesale electric rates, hydroelectric licensing, natural gas transmission and related services pricing, oil pipeline rates and gas pipeline certification. Franchise - A special privilege conferred by a unit of state or local government on an individual or corporation to occupy and use the public ways and streets for benefit to the public at large. Local distribution companies typically have exclusive franchises for utility service granted by state or local governments. Hedging - Entering into transactions to manage various types of risk (e.g. commodity risk). Hinshaw Exemption - A pipeline company (defined by the Natural Gas Act (NGA) and exempted from FERC jurisdiction under the NGA) defined as a regulated company engaged in transportation in interstate commerce, or the sale in interstate commerce for resale, of natural gas received by that company from another person within or at the boundary of a state, if all the natural gas so received is ultimately consumed within such state. A Hinshaw pipeline may receive a certificate authorizing it to transport natural gas out of the state in which it is located, without giving up its status as a Hinshaw pipeline. Lignite Coal - The lowest rank of coal, often referred to as brown coal, used almost exclusively as fuel for steam-electric power generation. It has a high inherent moisture content, sometimes as high as 45 percent. The heat content of lignite ranges from 9 to 17 million Btu per ton on a moist, mineral-matter-free basis. Mid-Columbia Electricity Price Index (Mid-C) - An electric pricing index of volume-weighted averages of specifically defined bilateral, wholesale, physical transactions. Calculations for these indexes average power transactions from Columbia, Midway, Rocky Reach, Wells, and Wanapum/Vantage, delivery points along the Columbia River. 5 Midcontinent Area Power Pool (MAPP) - A voluntary association of electric utilities and other electric industry participants that acts as a regional transmission group, responsible for facilitating open access of the transmission system and a generation reserve sharing pool to meet regional demand. Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator (MISO) - The MISO is a nonprofit organization created in compliance with FERC as a regional transmission organization, to improve the flow of electricity in the regional marketplace and to enhance electric reliability. Additionally, MISO is responsible for managing the energy markets, managing transmission constraints, managing the day-ahead, real-time and financial transmission rights markets and managing the ancillary market. Montana Consumer Counsel (MCC) - A Montana state constitution established advocate for public utility and transportation consumers, which represents them before the MPSC, state and federal courts, and administrative agencies in matters concerning public utility regulation. Montana Public Service Commission (MPSC) - The state agency that regulates public utilities doing business in Montana. Nebraska Public Service Commission (NPSC) - The state agency that regulates public utilities doing business in Nebraska. North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) - NERC oversees eight regional reliability entities and encompasses all of the interconnected power systems of the contiguous United States. NERC's major responsibilities include developing standards for power system operation, monitoring and enforcing compliance with those standards, assessing resource adequacy, and providing educational and training resources as part of an accreditation program to ensure power system operators remain qualified and proficient. Open Access - Non-discriminatory, fully equal access to transportation or transmission services offered by a pipeline or electric utility. Open Access Transmission Tariff (OATT) -The OATT, which is established by the FERC, defines the terms and conditions of point-to-point and network integration transmission services offered by us, and requires that transmission owners provide open, non-discriminatory access on their transmission system to transmission customers. Open Season - A period of time in which potential customers can bid for services, and during which such customers are treated equally regarding priority in the queue for service. Peak Load - A measure of the maximum amount of energy delivered at a point in time. Qualifying Facility (QF) - As defined under the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978, a QF sells power to a regulated utility at a price determined by a public service commission that is intended to be equal to that which the utility would otherwise pay if it were to build its own power plant or buy power form another source. Regional Transmission Organization (RTO) - An independent entity, which is established to have “functional control" over utilities' transmission systems, to expedite transmission of electricity. RTO's typically operate markets within their territories. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) - The U.S. agency charged with protecting investors, maintaining fair, orderly and efficient markets and facilitating capital formation. South Dakota Public Utilities Commission (SDPUC) - The state agency that regulates public utilities doing business in South Dakota. Sub-bituminous Coal - A coal whose properties range from those of lignite to those of bituminous coal and used primarily as fuel for steam-electric power generation. Sub-bituminous coal contains 20 to 30 percent inherent 6 moisture by weight. The heat content of sub-bituminous coal ranges from 17 to 24 million Btu per ton on a moist, mineral-matter-free basis. Tariffs - A collection of the rate schedules and service rules authorized by a federal or state commission. It lists the rates the regulated entity will charge to provide service to its customers as well as the terms and conditions that it will follow in providing service. Test Period - In a rate case, a test period is used to determine the cost of service upon which the utility's rates will be based. A test period consists of a base period of twelve consecutive months of recent actual operational experience, adjusted for changes in revenues and costs that are known and are measurable with reasonable accuracy at the time of the rate filing and which will typically become effective within nine months after the last month of actual data utilized in the rate filing. Tolling Contract - An arrangement whereby a party moves fuel to a power generator and receives kilowatt hours (kWh) in return for a pre-established fee. Transmission - The flow of electricity from generating stations over high voltage lines to substations. The electricity then flows from the substations into a distribution network. Western Area Power Administration (WAPA) - One of five federal power-marketing administrations and electric transmission agencies established by Congress. Western Electricity Coordination Council (WECC) - WECC is one of nine regional electric reliability councils under NERC. Measurements: Billion Cubic Feet (Bcf) - A unit used to measure large quantities of gas, approximately equal to 1 trillion Btu. British Thermal Unit (Btu) - a basic unit used to measure natural gas; the amount of natural gas needed to raise the temperature of one pound of water by one degree Fahrenheit. Degree-Day - A measure of the coldness / warmness of the weather experienced, based on the extent to which the daily mean temperature falls below or above a reference temperature. Dekatherm - A measurement of natural gas; ten therms or one million Btu. Kilovolt (kV) - A unit of electrical power equal to one thousand volts. Megawatt (MW) - A unit of electrical power equal to one million watts or one thousand kilowatts. Megawatt Hour (MWH) - One million watt-hours of electric energy. A unit of electrical energy which equals one megawatt of power used for one hour. 7 Part I ITEM 1. BUSINESS OVERVIEW NorthWestern Corporation, doing business as Northwestern Energy, provides electricity and natural gas to approximately 656,000 customers in Montana, South Dakota and Nebraska. We have generated and distributed electricity in South Dakota and distributed natural gas in South Dakota and Nebraska since 1923 and have distributed electricity and natural gas in Montana since 2002. We were incorporated in Delaware in November 1923. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, our Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to such reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, along with our annual report to shareholders and other information related to us, are available, free of charge, on our Internet website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file those documents with, or otherwise furnish them to, the SEC. This information is available in print to any shareholder who requests it. Requests should be directed to: Investor Relations, NorthWestern Corporation, 3010 W. 69th Street, Sioux Falls, South Dakota 57108 and our telephone number is (605) 978-2900. We maintain an Internet website at http://www.northwesternenergy.com. Our Internet website and the information contained therein or connected thereto are not intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K and should not be considered a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Through December 31, 2008, we operated our business in the following reporting segments: • Regulated electric operations; • Regulated natural gas operations; • Unregulated electric operations; • All other, which primarily consists of our remaining unregulated natural gas operations and our unallocated corporate costs. For financial information regarding these segments, see Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Effective January 1, 2009, we will no longer present an unregulated electric segment and the results of operations of our interest in Colstrip Unit 4 will be reflected in the regulated electric segment. See the “MPSC Regulation” section for further discussion. REGULATED ELECTRIC OPERATIONS MONTANA Our Montana regulated electric utility business consists of an extensive electric transmission and distribution network. Our service territory covers approximately 107,600 square miles, representing approximately 73% of Montana's land area, and includes a population of approximately 786,000 according to the 2000 census. We deliver electricity to approximately 332,500 customers in 187 communities and their surrounding rural areas, 15 rural electric cooperatives and in Wyoming to the Yellowstone National Park. In 2008, by category, residential, commercial and industrial, and other sales accounted for approximately 36%, 52%, and 12% of our Montana regulated electric utility revenue, respectively. We also transmit electricity for nonregulated entities owning generation facilities, other utilities and power marketers serving the Montana electricity market. The total control area peak demand was approximately 1,805 MWs, the average daily load was approximately 1,219 MWs, and more than 10.7 million MWHs were supplied during the year ended December 31, 2008. Our Montana electric transmission system consists of approximately 7,000 miles of transmission lines, ranging from 50 to 500 kV, 272 circuit segments and approximately 125,000 transmission poles with associated transformation and terminal facilities, and extends throughout the western two-thirds of Montana from Colstrip in the east to Thompson Falls in the west. Our 500 kV transmission system, which is jointly owned, 230 kV and 161 kV facilities form the key assets of our Montana transmission system. Lower voltage systems, which range from 8 50 kV to 115 kV, provide for local area service needs. The system has interconnections with five major nonaffiliated transmission systems located in the WECC area, as well as one interconnection to a nonaffiliated system that connects with the MAPP region. With these interconnections, we transmit power to and from diverse interstate transmission systems, including those operated by Avista Corporation; Idaho Power Company; PacifiCorp; the Bonneville Power Administration; and WAPA. Our Montana electric distribution system consists of approximately 21,200 miles of overhead and underground distribution lines and 336 transmission and distribution substations. Electric Supply Through the end of 2008, we purchased substantially all of our Montana capacity and energy requirements for electric supply from third parties. Our annual electric supply load requirements average approximately 730 MWs. We currently have under contract approximately 82% of the energy requirements necessary to meet our projected load requirements through June 30, 2009, with approximately 83% at fixed prices. For the period July 1, 2009 through June 30, 2010, we have under contract approximately 82% of our projected load requirements, with approximately 96 percent at fixed prices. This includes approximately 111 MWs from Colstrip Unit 4. Remaining customer load requirements are met with market purchases. Specifically, we have a seven-year power purchase agreement with PPL Montana for 325 MWs of on-peak supply and 175 MWs of off-peak supply through June 2010 and decreasing volumes thereafter through June 2014. We also purchase power under several QF contracts entered into under the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978, which provide a total of 105 MWs of capacity. We have several other long and medium-term power purchase agreements including contracts for 135 MWs of wind generation and 5 MWs of seasonal base-load hydro supply. In December 2007, we filed a biennial Electric Default Supply Resource Procurement Plan with the MPSC which will guide future resource acquisition activities. Renewable portfolio standards enacted in Montana require that a certain portion of our electric supply be obtained from renewable sources, including wind, biomass, solar and small hydroelectric. The requirements are currently 5%, increasing to 10% by 2010 and 15% by 2015. Approximately 8% of our electric supply requirements for 2009 are from renewable resources. The amounts in excess of the requirements can be carried forward to future periods. In addition to the general renewable requirements, beginning in 2010, under a separate Community Renewable Energy Project provision, we are required to purchase output from community projects that total approximately 45 MWs in nameplate capacity. Our electric supply purchases are being recovered through an electricity cost tracking process pursuant to which rates are adjusted on a monthly basis for electricity loads and electricity costs for the upcoming 12-month period. On an annual basis, rates are adjusted to include any differences in the previous tracking year's actual to estimated information, for recovery in the subsequent tracking year. The MPSC reviews the prudency of our electric supply procurement activities as part of the annual electric tracking filing. FERC Regulation We are subject to the jurisdiction of, and regulation by, the FERC with respect to rates for electric transmission service in interstate commerce and electricity sold at wholesale rates, the issuance of certain securities, incurrence of certain long-term debt, and compliance with mandatory reliability regulations, among other things. In Montana, we sell transmission service across our system under terms, conditions and rates defined in our OATT, on file with FERC. We are required to provide retail transmission service in Montana under tariffs for customers still receiving “bundled" service and under the OATT for other wholesale transmission customers such as cooperatives. In 2007, FERC issued Order No. 890, Preventing Undue Discrimination and Preference in Transmission Service (Order 890). FERC Order 890 contained many changes to the OATT, and a number of items which all FERC jurisdictional entities, including us, were to comply with under various time frames defined by Order 890. We met or have approved mitigation plans for each of the compliance tasks by the dates specified by FERC. FERC expected the NERC and the North American Energy Standards Board (NAESB) in 2008 to further define and develop business practices and changes to the Open Access Same-time Information System (OASIS), with the intent to allow for further transparency and nondiscriminatory use of the transmission system. Although not completed in 2008, NERC and NAESB continue to work on these initiatives. We will continue to participate in the 9 processes under which these standards and business practices are developed, and will ultimately be subject to them once they are complete. NERC Reliability - The Energy Policy Act of 2005 added a requirement for FERC to certify an Electric Reliability Organization (ERO) to develop mandatory and enforceable electric system reliability standards. FERC has certified the NERC as the ERO to develop these standards subject to FERC review and approval. On March 16, 2007, FERC issued Order 693, Mandatory Reliability Standards for the Bulk-Power System, which imposes penalties of up to $1.0 million per day per violation for failure to comply with new electric reliability standards. FERC initially approved 83 reliability standards developed by NERC. The 83 standards comprise over 550 requirements and sub-requirements. We must comply with the standards and requirements, which apply to the NERC functions for which we have registered in both the MRO (Midwest Reliability Organization) for our South Dakota operations and the WECC for our Montana operations. Additional standards continue to be developed and will be adopted in the future. We expect that the existing standards will change often as a result of modifications, guidance and clarification following industry implementation and ongoing audits and enforcement. Per NERC, MRO and WECC guidelines, users, owners and operators of the bulk power system that self-reported non-compliance with any of the NERC standards and that submitted mitigation plans to address the non-compliance would not be subject to penalties if the mitigation plans were submitted on or before June 18, 2007, and approved by the MRO and WECC. We submitted a number of self-reports and mitigation plans, and on June 11, 2008 received a notice of confirmed violation in the MRO relating to sabotage reporting, and on December 31, 2008, we received two preliminary notices of alleged violation in the WECC relating to protection systems / substations maintenance and testing. There were no penalties associated with the MRO violation. At this time we do not know if there will be any penalties associated with the WECC violations. Also, we expect to receive preliminary notices of alleged violation on the other self-reports and mitigations plans we have submitted in the WECC. We are uncertain if the self-reported violations will result in financial penalties; however, we do not believe any penalties would be material based on the results of similar violations reported by other transmission operators. Our compliance with NERC standards will be audited at least every three years, and we expect the first such WECC audit to begin in April 2009. The Area Control Error Diversity Interchange (ADI) between the Idaho Power Company, PacifiCorp and our control areas was implemented during the first quarter of 2007. The ADI allows the participating utilities to net their control error balances across the participating utilities, rather than requiring each utility to balance on a one-to-one basis, which allows the utilities to stay in balance as a group (and make less generation level movements (regulating service) to stay in balance), thereby reducing the costs of staying in compliance with NERC’s requirements. In 2008, ten additional balancing authorities (BAs) had signed the ADI agreement and are expected to be fully implemented into the system during the first quarter of 2009. The BAs are located in the Pacific Northwest and Southwest regions of the WECC Interconnection. Under FERC approved agreements beginning in January 2008, Powerex and Avista Utilities sold regulating reserve service to us, which in turn we used to provide service under Schedule 3 (Regulation and Frequency Response) to our customers under our OATT. The contracts for this service with Powerex and Avista Utilities terminated as of December 31, 2008. Upon completion of a competitive RFP process, we entered into two-year agreements with Avista Utilities, Grant County Public Utility District and Powerex to replace the 2008 agreements, which allows us to balance loads and resources within our balancing authority area on a moment-to-moment basis and to provide Schedule 3 service under our Montana OATT. These agreements have been approved by the FERC. Our tariffs allow for pass-through of ancillary costs, including the regulating reserve service described above. Rate Increase - In October 2006, we filed a request with the FERC for an electric transmission revenue increase. In May 2007, we implemented interim rates, which were subject to refund plus interest pending final resolution. We filed settlement documents on February 15, 2008, and on October 16, 2008, FERC approved the settlement. We have been recognizing revenue consistent with the settlement terms since we implemented interim rates in May 2007, which has resulted in an annualized margin increase of approximately $3.0 million. We deferred a portion of the interim rates billed from May 2007 through November 2008 and, in accordance with the settlement agreement, refunded approximately $5.4 million to customers in December 2008. 10 MPSC Regulation Our Montana operations are subject to the jurisdiction of the MPSC with respect to rates, terms and conditions of service, accounting records, electric service territorial issues and other aspects of our operations, including when we issue, assume, or guarantee securities in Montana, or when we create liens on our regulated Montana properties. Montana's Electric Utility Industry Restructuring and Customer Choice Act was passed in 1997, which provided for deregulation and allowed for customer choice and competition among suppliers. During 2007, the Montana legislature passed House Bill 25 (HB 25), labeled The Generation Reintegration Act, which became effective October 1, 2007. This bill largely removed the remaining remnants of deregulation from Montana law that began in 1997 by eliminating customer choice for all customers except for the largest industrial customers using more than five MWs, and permits utilities to build and own electric generation assets that would be included in utility cost of service. In addition, the bill provided for a timely advanced approval process for electric supply resource projects and requires carbon offsets to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. Colstrip Unit 4 – In January 2008, we announced that we had retained a financial advisor to assist us in the evaluation of our strategic options related to our unregulated joint ownership interest in Colstrip Unit 4. Options reviewed included selling our ownership through a competitive bid process, putting the asset in rate base in Montana, or retaining the asset and contracting future sales of the plant output. On June 10, 2008, we entered into an agreement to sell our interest in Colstrip Unit 4 for $404 million in cash, subject to certain working capital adjustments. The agreement provided a timeline of 120 days for us to explore the viability of placing this asset into our Montana utility rate base. Consistent with these terms, and in accordance with HB 25, we submitted a filing with the MPSC to review and determine if it would be in the public interest to place our interest in Colstrip Unit 4 into rate base at an equivalent value to the negotiated selling price including certain adjustments. The determination of the selling price was based on a number of factors, including the existing below market commitments of 111 MWs to our Montana regulated electric supply load. The MPSC accepted the application and ordered the asset be placed into utility rate base effective January 1, 2009, at a value of $407 million. The order included a capital structure of 50% equity and 50% debt, an authorized return on equity of 10% and cost of debt of 6.5%, which are set for 34 years or the life of the plant. The difference in the rate base value of $407 million and the negotiated price of $404 million reflects termination fees owed to the potential purchaser upon termination of our June 2008 agreement to sell our interest, offset by avoided sale transaction fees. This resource will supply approximately 13% of our base-load requirements through 2010 and approximately 25% thereafter (upon expiration of an existing power sale agreement). The generation related costs and return on rate base of Colstrip Unit 4 will be included in our annual electric supply tracking filing for inclusion in customer rates. Mill Creek Generating Station - In August 2008, we filed a request with the MPSC for advanced approval to construct a 150 MW natural gas fired facility at an estimated cost of $206 million. The Mill Creek Generating Station would provide supply and regulating resources in Montana to maintain reliability and enable additional wind power to be integrated onto the network to meet future renewable energy portfolio needs. As part of the MPSC filing, we requested a capital structure of 50% equity and 50% debt and an authorized return on equity of 10.75% for this asset. A procedural schedule is currently in process and we anticipate an MPSC decision during the second quarter of 2009. Montana General Rate Case - On July 1, 2008, the MPSC approved our stipulated agreement with the MCC to settle our general electric and natural gas rate case filed in 2007. The settlement resulted in an annual increase to base electric rates of approximately $10 million, and included certain capital investment commitments. In addition, we will submit a Montana general electric and natural gas rate filing no later than July 31, 2009, based on a 2008 test year. 11 SOUTH DAKOTA Our South Dakota electric utility business operates as a vertically integrated generation, transmission and distribution utility. We have the exclusive right to serve an area in South Dakota comprised of 25 counties with a combined population of approximately 99,900 according to the 2000 census. We provide retail electricity to more than 60,100 customers in 110 communities in South Dakota. In 2008, by category, residential, commercial and industrial, wholesale, and other sales accounted for approximately 36%, 52%, 8% and 4% of our South Dakota electric utility revenue, respectively. Currently, we serve these customers principally from generation capacity obtained through our joint ownership interests in three base-load generation plants and other peaking facilities that provide us with 311 MWs of demonstrated capacity. In addition, we have contracted capacity with MidAmerican Energy Company (MidAmerican) for an additional 53 MWs. Peak demand was approximately 284 MWs, the average daily load was approximately 160 MWs, and more than 1.4 million MWHs were supplied during the year ended December 31, 2008. We use market purchases and internal peaking generation to provide peak supply in excess of our base-load capacity. Residential, commercial and industrial services are generally bundled packages of generation, transmission, distribution, meter reading, billing and other services. In addition, we provide wholesale transmission of electricity to a number of South Dakota municipalities, state government agencies and agency buildings. For these wholesale sales, we are responsible for the transmission of contracted electricity to a substation or other distribution point, and the purchaser is responsible for further distribution, billing, collection and other related functions. We also provide sales of electricity to resellers, primarily including power pools or other utilities. Sales to power pools fluctuate from year to year depending on a number of factors, including the availability of excess short-term generation and the ability to sell excess power to other utilities in the power pool. Our transmission and distribution network in South Dakota consists of approximately 3,200 miles of overhead and underground transmission and distribution lines as well as 120 substations. We have interconnection and pooling arrangements with the transmission facilities of Otter Tail Power Company; Montana-Dakota Utilities Co.; Xcel Energy, Inc.; and WAPA. We have emergency interconnections with the transmission facilities of East River Electric Cooperative, Inc. and West Central Electric Cooperative. These interconnection and pooling arrangements enable us to arrange purchases or sales of substantial quantities of electric power and energy with other pool members and to participate in the efficiency benefits of pool arrangements. Direct competition does not presently exist within our South Dakota service territory for the supply and delivery of electricity, except with regard to certain new large load customers with demand in excess of two MWs. The SDPUC, pursuant to the South Dakota Public Utilities Act, assigned the South Dakota service territory to us effective March 1976. Pursuant to that law, we have the exclusive right, other than as previously noted, to provide fully bundled services, as described above, to all present and future electric customers within our assigned territory for so long as the service provided is adequate. We are not aware of any allegations of inadequate service since assignment in 1976. The assignment of a service territory is perpetual under current South Dakota law; however, the local government of each of the municipalities we serve does have the right to condemn our facilities and establish a municipal utility distribution system. 12 Electric Supply Most of the electricity that we supply to customers in South Dakota is generated by power plants that we own jointly with unaffiliated parties. In addition, we have several wholly owned peaking/standby generating units at seven locations throughout our service territory. Details of our generating facilities are described further in the chart below. Each of the jointly owned plants is subject to a joint management structure. We are not the operator of any of these plants. Except as otherwise noted, we are entitled to a proportionate share of the electricity generated in our jointly owned plants and are responsible for a proportionate share of the operating expenses, based upon our ownership interest. Most of the power allocated to us from these facilities is distributed to our South Dakota customers. During periods of lower demand, electricity in excess of our load requirements is sold in the competitive wholesale market. In 2008, this was approximately 15% of our share of the power generated. Name and Location of Plant Fuel Source Our Ownership Interest Our Share of 2008 Peak Summer Demonstrated Capacity (MW) % of Total 2008 Peak Summer Demonstrated Capacity Big Stone Plant, located near Big Stone City in northeastern South Dakota Sub-bituminous coal 23.4 % 107.24 34.5 % Coyote I Electric Generating Station, located near Beulah, North Dakota Lignite coal 10.0 42.70 13.8 Neal Electric Generating Unit No. 4, located near Sioux City, Iowa Sub-bituminous coal 8.7 55.91 18.0 Miscellaneous combustion turbine units and small diesel units (used only during peak periods) Combination of fuel oil and natural gas 100.0 104.69 33.7 Total Capacity 310.54 100.0 % In December 2008, we entered into a 20-year power purchase agreement for 25 MWs of electric supply from the Titan I Wind Project in Hand County, South Dakota. Under this agreement, at the end of the fourth and fifth contract year we have an option to purchase the project. In addition, if additional capacity is built we have the first right of refusal to purchase the output. It is anticipated that the wind farm will be in operation by early 2010. MidAmerican provided 53 MWs of firm capacity during the summer months of 2008 and we have an agreement with them to supply firm capacity of 71 MWs in 2009. During 2008, we extended the current agreement with MidAmerican to provide firm capacity during the summer months of 2010 through 2012 for 74, 77 and 80 MWs, respectively, pending transmission availability. We are a member of the MAPP, which is an area power pool arrangement consisting of utilities and power suppliers having transmission interconnections located in a nine-state area in the North Central region of the United States and in two Canadian provinces. The terms and conditions of the MAPP agreement and transactions between MAPP members are subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC. We have a resource plan that includes estimates of customer usage and programs to provide for economic, reliable and timely supply of energy. We continue to update our load forecast to identify the future electric energy needs of our customers, and we evaluate additional generating capacity requirements on an ongoing basis. This forecast shows customer peak demand growing modestly, which will result in the need to add peaking capacity in the future; however, we believe we have adequate base-load generation capacity to meet customer supply needs through at least 2013. We are undergoing an evaluation of our needs for base-load supply beyond that point based on our current load forecast. Coal was used to generate approximately 99% of the electricity utilized for South Dakota operations for the year ended December 31, 2008. Our natural gas and fuel oil peaking units provided the balance of generating capacity. We have no interests in nuclear generating plants. The fuel for our jointly owned base-load generating plants is provided through supply contracts of various lengths with several coal companies. Coyote I is a mine-mouth generating facility. Neal #4 and Big Stone receive their fuel supply via rail. Continuing upward pressure on 13 coal prices and transportation costs could result in increases in costs to our customers due to mechanisms to recover fuel adjustments in our rates. The average cost, inclusive of transportation costs, by type of fuel burned is shown below for the periods indicated: Cost per Million Btu for the Year Ended December 31, Percent of 2008 Fuel Type – Generating Station 2008 2007 2006 MWH Generated Sub-bituminous-Big Stone $ 1.77 $ 1.55 $ 1.49 51.2 % Lignite-Coyote 1.18 1.06 0.96 19.7 Sub-bituminous-Neal 1.24 1.15 1.10 28.7 Natural Gas 8.52 7.41 7.17 0.2 Oil 19.34 13.11 15.38 0.2 During the year ended December 31, 2008, the average delivered cost per ton of fuel burned for our base-load plants was $29.15 at Big Stone, $16.21 at Coyote I and $18.69 at Neal #4. The average cost by type of fuel burned and delivered cost per ton of fuel varies between generation facilities due to differences in transportation costs and owner purchasing power for coal supply. Changes in our fuel costs are passed on to customers through the operation of the fuel adjustment clause in our South Dakota tariffs. The Big Stone facility currently burns sub-bituminous coal from the Powder River Basin delivered under a contract through 2010. Neal #4 also receives sub-bituminous coal from the Powder River Basin delivered under multiple firm and spot contracts with terms of up to several years in duration. The Coyote I facility has a contract for the supply of lignite coal that expires in 2016 and provides for an adequate fuel supply for Coyote's estimated economic life. The South Dakota Department of Environment and Natural Resources has given approval for Big Stone to burn a variety of alternative fuels, including tire-derived fuel and refuse-derived fuel. In 2008, approximately 0.9% of the fuel consumption at Big Stone was derived from alternative fuels. Although we have no firm contract for the supply of diesel fuel or natural gas for our electric peaking units, we have historically been able to purchase diesel fuel requirements from local suppliers and have enough diesel fuel in storage to satisfy our current requirements. We have been able to use excess capacity from our natural gas operations as the fuel source for our gas peaking units. We must pay fees to third parties to transmit the power generated at our Big Stone, Coyote I, and Neal #4 plants to our South Dakota transmission system. We have a 10-year agreement, expiring December 31, 2010, with WAPA for transmission services, including transmission of electricity from Big Stone and Neal #4 to our South Dakota service areas through seven points of interconnection on WAPA's system. Transmission services under this agreement, and our costs for such services, are variable and depend upon a number of factors, including the respective parties' system peak demand and the number of our transmission assets that are integrated into WAPA's system. In 2008, our costs for services under this contract totaled approximately $5.1 million. Our tariffs in South Dakota generally allow us to pass through these transmission costs to our customers. FERC Regulation Our South Dakota transmission operations underlie the MISO system and are part of the WAPA Control Area. The Coyote I and Big Stone power plants, of which we are a joint owner, are connected directly to the MISO system, and we have ownership rights in the transmission lines from these plants to our distribution system. We are not participating in the MISO markets, but continue to utilize WAPA to handle our scheduling and power marketing activities. We have negotiated a settlement as a grandfathered agreement with MISO and the other Big Stone and Coyote I power plant joint owners related to providing MISO with the information it needs to operate its system, while exempting us from assignment of MISO operational costs. MISO provides the reliability coordinator functions for MAPP. We updated the South Dakota OATT to accommodate the required planning functions that rely heavily on MAPP’s planning process and MAPP’s coordination with MISO. 14 See the “Montana - FERC Regulation” section related for a discussion of the NERC compliance requirements also applicable to our South Dakota operations. SDPUC Regulation Our South Dakota operations are subject to SDPUC jurisdiction with respect to rates, terms and conditions of service, accounting records, electric service territorial issues and other aspects of our operations. Our retail electric rates, approved by the SDPUC, provide several options for residential, commercial and industrial customers, including dual-fuel, interruptible, special all-electric heating, and other special rates, as well as various incentive riders to encourage business development. An adjustment clause provides for quarterly adjustment based on differences in the delivered cost of energy, delivered cost of fuel, ad valorem taxes paid and commission-approved fuel incentives. The adjustment goes into effect upon filing, and is deemed approved within 10 days after the information filing unless the SDPUC staff requests changes during that period. REGULATED NATURAL GAS OPERATIONS MONTANA We distribute natural gas to approximately 179,200 customers in 105 Montana communities. We also serve several smaller distribution companies that provide service to approximately 31,500 customers. Our natural gas distribution system consists of approximately 4,000 miles of underground distribution pipelines. We transmit natural gas in Montana from production receipt points and storage facilities to distribution points and other nonaffiliated transmission systems. We transported natural gas volumes of approximately 41 Bcf, and our peak capacity was approximately 335,000 dekatherms per day during the year ended December 31, 2008. Our natural gas transmission system consists of more than 2,000 miles of pipeline, which vary in diameter from two inches to 20 inches, and serve more than 130 city gate stations. We have connections in Montana with five major, nonaffiliated transmission systems: Williston Basin Interstate Pipeline, NOVA Gas Transmission Ltd., Colorado Interstate Gas, Encana and Havre Pipeline. Seven compressor sites provide more than 42,000 horsepower, capable of moving more than 325,000 dekatherms per day. In addition, we own and operate a pipeline border crossing through our wholly owned subsidiary, Canadian-Montana Pipe Line Corporation. We own and operate three working natural gas storage fields in Montana with aggregate working gas capacity of approximately 16.2 Bcf and maximum aggregate daily deliverability of approximately 195,000 dekatherms. We have nonexclusive municipal franchises to transport and distribute natural gas in the Montana communities we serve. The terms of the franchises vary by community, but most are for 30 to 50 years. During the next five years, 20 of our municipal franchises, which account for approximately 81,000 customers, are scheduled to expire. Our policy is to seek renewal of a franchise in the last year of its term. Natural Gas Supply We supply natural gas to customers that have not chosen other suppliers. Our natural gas supply requirements are fulfilled through third-party fixed-term purchase contracts and short-term market purchases. Our portfolio approach to natural gas supply enables us to maintain a diversified supply of natural gas sufficient to meet our supply requirements. We benefit from direct access to suppliers in the major natural gas producing regions in the United States, primarily the Rockies (Colorado), Mid-Continent, Panhandle (Texas/Oklahoma), Montana, and Alberta, Canada. These suppliers also provide us with market insight, which assists us in making procurement decisions. Our Montana natural gas supply requirements for the year ended December 31, 2008, were approximately 21 Bcf. We have contracted with several major producers and marketers with varying contract durations to provide the anticipated supply to meet ongoing requirements. Natural gas is used primarily for residential and commercial heating. As a result, the demand for natural gas depends upon weather conditions. Natural gas is a commodity that is subject to market price fluctuations. Our gas supply purchases are also recovered through a gas cost tracking process, which provides for the adjustment of rates on a monthly basis to reflect changes in gas prices. On an annual basis rates are adjusted to include any differences 15 in the previous tracking year's actual to estimated information, for recovery in the subsequent tracking year. The MPSC reviews the prudency of our gas procurement activities as part of this annual gas tracking filing. We filed a Biennial Natural Gas Procurement Plan in December 2008. This Gas Plan provides the MPSC the blueprint we will follow in procuring natural gas supply to meet our gas supply needs and reliability requirements and the implementation of hedging strategies to reduce price volatility. FERC Regulation FERC Order No. 636 requires that all companies with interstate natural gas pipelines separate natural gas supply and production services from interstate transportation service and underground storage services. The effect of the order was that natural gas distribution companies, such as us, and individual customers purchase natural gas directly from producers, third parties and various gas-marketing entities and transport it through interstate pipelines. We have established transportation rates on our transmission and distribution systems to allow customers to have supply choices. Our transportation tariffs have been designed to make us economically indifferent as to whether we sell and transport natural gas or merely deliver it for the customer. Our natural gas transportation pipelines are generally not subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC, although we are subject to state regulation. We conduct limited interstate transportation in Montana that is subject to FERC jurisdiction, but through a Hinshaw Exemption the FERC has allowed the MPSC to set the rates for this interstate service. MPSC Regulation Our Montana operations are subject to the jurisdiction of the MPSC with respect to natural gas rates, terms and conditions of service, accounting records, and other aspects of our operations. Montana General Rate Case – On July 1, 2008, the MPSC approved our stipulated agreement with the MCC to settle our general electric and natural gas rate case filed in 2007. The settlement resulted in an annual increase to base natural gas rates of approximately $5 million, and included certain capital investment commitments. In addition, we will submit a Montana general electric and natural gas rate filing no later than July 31, 2009, based on a 2008 test year. SOUTH DAKOTA AND NEBRASKA We provide natural gas to approximately 84,500 customers in 60 South Dakota communities and four Nebraska communities. We have approximately 2,200 miles of underground distribution pipelines in South Dakota and Nebraska. In South Dakota, we also transport natural gas for five gas-marketing firms and four large end-user accounts, currently serving 85 customers through our distribution systems. In Nebraska, we transport natural gas for three gas-marketing firms and one end-user account, servicing eight customers through our distribution system. We delivered approximately 21.4 Bcf of third-party transportation volume on our South Dakota distribution system and approximately 2.3 Bcf of third-party transportation volume on our Nebraska distribution system during 2008. We have nonexclusive municipal franchises to purchase, transport and distribute natural gas in the South Dakota and Nebraska communities we serve. The maximum term permitted under Nebraska law for these franchises is 25 years while the maximum term permitted under South Dakota law is 20 years. Our policy is to seek renewal of a franchise in the last year of its term. During the next five years, 43 of our South Dakota and Nebraska municipal franchises, which account for approximately 58,900 customers, are scheduled to expire. In South Dakota and Nebraska, we are subject to competition for natural gas supply. In addition, competition currently exists for commodity sales to large volume customers and for delivery in the form of system by-pass, alternative fuel sources such as propane and fuel oil and, in some cases, duplicate providers. We do not face material competition from alternative natural gas supply companies in the communities we serve in South Dakota and Nebraska. 16 Competition in the natural gas industry may result in the further unbundling of natural gas services. Separate markets may emerge for the natural gas commodity, transmission, distribution, meter reading, billing and other services currently provided by utilities. At present, it is unclear when or to what extent further unbundling of utility services will occur. Natural Gas Supply Our South Dakota natural gas supply requirements for the year ended December 31, 2008, were approximately 6.1 Bcf. We have contracted with Tenaska Marketing Ventures, Inc. in South Dakota to manage transportation, storage and procurement of supply to minimize cost and price volatility to our customers. Our Nebraska natural gas supply requirements for the year ended December 31, 2008, were approximately 5.7 Bcf. Our Nebraska natural gas supply, storage and pipeline requirements are fulfilled primarily through a third-party contract with ONEOK Energy Services Co. To supplement firm gas supplies in South Dakota and Nebraska, we also contract for firm natural gas storage services to meet the heating season and peak day requirements of our natural gas customers. We also maintain and operate two propane-air gas peaking units with a peak daily capacity of approximately 6,400 dekatherms. These plants provide an economic alternative to pipeline transportation charges to meet the peaks caused by customer demand on extremely cold days. Natural gas is used primarily for residential and commercial heating. As a result, the demand for natural gas depends upon weather conditions. Natural gas is a commodity that is subject to market price fluctuations. Purchase adjustment clauses contained in South Dakota and Nebraska tariffs allow us to pass through increases or decreases in gas supply and interstate transportation costs on a timely basis, so we are generally allowed to pass these changes in natural gas prices through to our customers. FERC Regulation Our natural gas transportation pipelines are generally not subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC, although we are subject to state regulation. We have capacity agreements with interstate pipelines that are subject to FERC jurisdiction. SDPUC Regulation Our South Dakota operations are subject to the jurisdiction of the SDPUC with respect to rates, terms and conditions of service, accounting records and other aspects of our natural gas distribution operations in South Dakota. A purchased gas adjustment provision in our natural gas rate schedules permits the monthly adjustment of charges to customers to reflect increases or decreases in purchased gas, gas transportation and ad valorem taxes. Our retail natural gas tariffs, approved by the SDPUC, include gas transportation rates for transportation through our distribution systems by customers and natural gas marketers from the interstate pipelines at which our systems take delivery to the end-user's premises. Such transporting customers nominate the amount of natural gas to be delivered daily. Usage for these customers is monitored daily through electronic metering equipment by us and balanced against respective supply agreements. 17 NPSC Regulation Our Nebraska natural gas rates and terms and conditions of service for residential and smaller commercial customers are regulated by the NPSC. High volume customers are not subject to such regulation but can file complaints if they allege discriminatory treatment. Under the Nebraska State Natural Gas Regulation Act, a regulated natural gas utility may propose a change in rates to its regulated customers, if it files an application for a rate increase with the NPSC and with the communities in which it serves customers. The utility may negotiate with those communities for a settlement with regard to the rate change, or it may proceed to have the NPSC review the filing and make a determination. Subsequent to the 2004 enactment of the State Natural Gas Regulation Act, our tariffs have been accepted by the NPSC, and the NPSC has adopted certain rules governing the terms and conditions of service of regulated natural gas utilities. Our retail natural gas tariffs provide residential, general service and commercial and industrial options, as well as firm and interruptible transportation service. A purchased gas adjustment clause provides for adjustments based on changes in gas supply and interstate pipeline transportation costs. UNREGULATED ELECTRIC OPERATIONS We have a 30% joint ownership interest in the Colstrip Unit 4 generation facility, a 740 MW demonstrated-capacity coal-fired power plant located in southeastern Montana. Our interest represents approximately 222 MWs at full load. We sell our output principally to Puget Sound Energy (Puget) and DB Energy Trading, LLC, (DB) under agreements expiring on December 29, 2010. When operating at full contract capacity, we deliver 97 MWs to Puget (plus line losses) and 111 MWs to DB. We have a separate agreement with DB to repurchase 111 MWs through December 2010. As discussed above in the “MPSC Regulation” section, the MPSC approved placing this asset into our Montana utility rate base. Effective January 1, 2009, we will no longer present an unregulated electric segment and the results of operations of our interest in Colstrip Unit 4 will be reflected in the regulated electric segment as a component of electric supply. We will continue to serve the contract obligations to Puget and DB through their expiration, and the buyback quantity plus any MWs not under contract will be used to serve Montana regulated base-load. A long-term coal supply contract with Western Energy Company provides the coal necessary to run the Colstrip facility. SEASONALITY AND CYCLICALITY Our electric and gas utility businesses are seasonal businesses, and weather patterns can have a material impact on operating performance. Because natural gas is used primarily for residential and commercial heating, the demand for this product depends heavily upon weather patterns throughout our market areas, and a significant amount of natural gas revenues are recognized in the first and fourth quarters related to the heating season. Demand for electricity is often greater in the summer and winter months for cooling and heating, respectively. Accordingly, our operations have historically generated less revenues and income when weather conditions are milder in the winter and cooler in the summer. When we experience unusually mild winters or summers in the future, these weather patterns could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. 18 ENVIRONMENTAL The operation of electric generating, transmission and distribution facilities, and gas transportation and distribution facilities, along with the development (involving site selection, environmental assessments, and permitting) and construction of these assets, are subject to extensive federal, state, and local environmental and land use laws and regulations. Our activities involve compliance with diverse laws and regulations that address emissions and impacts to air and water, and protection of natural resources. We continuously monitor federal, state, and local environmental initiatives to determine potential impacts on our financial results. As new laws or regulations are promulgated, our policy is to assess their applicability and implement the necessary modifications to our facilities or their operation to maintain ongoing compliance. Our environmental exposure includes a number of components, including remediation expenses related to the clean up of current or former properties, and costs to comply with changing environmental regulations related to our operations. At present, the majority of our environmental reserve relates to the remediation of former manufactured gas plant (MGP) sites owned by us. We use a combination of site investigations and monitoring to formulate an estimate of environmental remediation costs for specific sites. Our monitoring procedures and development of actual remediation plans depend not only on site specific information but also on coordination with the different environmental regulatory agencies in our respective jurisdictions, therefore, while remediation exposure exists, it may be many years before costs become fixed and reliably determinable. Our liability for environmental remediation obligations is estimated to range between $22.5 million to $43.8 million. As of December 31, 2008, we have a reserve of approximately $32.1 million. Environmental costs are recorded when it is probable we are liable for the remediation and we can reasonably estimate the liability. Over time, as specific laws are implemented and we gain experience in operating under them, a portion of the costs related to compliance with such laws will become determinable, and we may seek authorization to recover such costs in rates or seek insurance reimbursement as applicable; therefore, we do not expect these costs to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or ongoing operations. Coal-Fired Plants We have a joint ownership interest in four electric generating plants, all of which are coal fired and operated by other companies. We have an undivided interest in these facilities and are responsible for our proportionate share of the capital and operating costs while being entitled to our proportionate share of the power generated. In addition, a significant portion of the electric supply we procure in the market is generated by coal-fired plants. Global Climate Change - There is a growing concern nationally and internationally about global climate change and the contribution of emissions of greenhouse gases including, most significantly, carbon dioxide. This concern has led to increased interest in legislation at the federal level, actions at the state level, as well as litigation relating to greenhouse emissions, including a U.S. Supreme Court decision holding that the EPA relied on improper factors in deciding not to regulate carbon dioxide emissions from motor vehicles under the Clean Air Act. Investor organizations are also applying increased pressure for carbon dioxide emissions reduction. Specifically, coal-fired plants have come under scrutiny due to their emissions of carbon dioxide. In addition, there is a gap between proposed emissions reduction levels and the current capabilities of technology, as there is no currently available commercial scale technology that would achieve the proposed reduction levels. Such technology may not be available within a timeframe consistent with the implementation of climate change legislation or at all. To the extent that such technology does become available, we can provide no assurance that it will be suitable for installation at the generation facilities we have a joint interest in, or on a cost effective basis. If legislation or regulations are passed at the federal or state levels imposing mandatory reductions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases on generation facilities, the cost to us and / or our customers could be significant. Clean Air Act - The Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 and subsequent amendments stipulate limitations on sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide emissions from coal-fired power plants. We comply with these existing emission requirements through purchase of sub-bituminous coal, and we believe that we are in compliance with all presently applicable environmental protection requirements and regulations with respect to these plants. 19 Clean Air Mercury Rule – In March 2005, the EPA issued the Clean Air Mercury Regulations (CAMR) to reduce the emissions of mercury from coal-fired facilities through a market-based cap-and-trade program. Although the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit struck down CAMR, the state of Montana has finalized its own more stringent cap, which could require us to incur additional costs related to our joint ownership interest in Colstrip Unit 4. We are unable to estimate the ultimate financial impact of this matter in light of the uncertainty surrounding the anticipated federal and state rulemakings; however, the final resolution could have a material impact on capital expenditure estimates. We are continuing to work with the other Colstrip owners to determine the ultimate financial impact of these rules. For more information on environmental contingencies, see Note 20, Commitments and Contingencies, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 20 EMPLOYEES As of December 31, 2008, we had 1,385 employees. Of these, 1,059 employees were in Montana and 326 were in South Dakota or Nebraska. Of our Montana employees, 415 were covered by six collective bargaining agreements involving five unions. All six of these agreements were renegotiated in 2008 for terms of four years. In addition, our South Dakota and Nebraska operations had 190 employees covered by the System Council U-26 of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers. This collective bargaining agreement expires on December 31, 2009. We consider our relations with employees to be in good standing. Executive Officers Executive Officer Current Title and Prior Employment Age on Feb. 6, 2009 Robert C. Rowe President, Chief Executive Officer and Director since August 2008. Prior to joining NorthWestern, Mr. Rowe was a co-founder and senior partner at Balhoff, Rowe & Williams, LLC, a specialized national professional services firm providing financial and regulatory advice to clients in the telecommunications and energy industries (January 2005-August, 2008); and served as Chairman and Commissioner of the Montana Public Service Commission (1993–2004). 53 Brian B. Bird Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since December 2003. Director since August 2008. Prior to joining NorthWestern, Mr. Bird was Chief Financial Officer and Principal of Insight Energy, Inc., a Chicago-based independent power generation development company (2002-2003). Previously, he was Vice President and Treasurer of NRG Energy, Inc., in Minneapolis, MN (1997-2002). Mr. Bird serves on the board of directors of a NorthWestern subsidiary. 46 Miggie E. Cramblit Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since May 2008. Prior to joining NorthWestern, Ms. Cramblit held positions at DPL Inc. and its primary subsidiary, The Dayton Power and Light Company, including Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary (July 2007-October 2007); Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary (2004-July 2007); and Vice President and General Counsel (2003 to 2004). 53 Patrick R. Corcoran Vice President-Government and Regulatory Affairs since December 2004; formerly Vice President-Regulatory Affairs since February 2002; formerly Vice President-Regulatory Affairs for the former Montana Power Company (2000-2002). 57 David G. Gates Vice President-Wholesale Operations since September 2005; formerly Vice President-Transmission Operations since May 2003; formerly Executive Director-Distribution Operations since January 2003; formerly Executive Director-Distribution Operations for the former Montana Power Company (1996-2002). Mr. Gates serves on the board of directors of a NorthWestern subsidiary. 52 21 Kendall G. Kliewer Vice President and Controller since August 2006; Controller since June 2004; formerly Chief Accountant since November 2002. Prior to joining NorthWestern, Mr. Kliewer was a Senior Manager at KPMG LLP (1999-2002). 39 Curtis T. Pohl Vice President-Retail Operations since September 2005; formerly Vice President-Distribution Operations since August 2003; formerly Vice President-South Dakota/Nebraska Operations since June 2002; formerly Vice President-Engineering and Construction since June 1999. Mr. Pohl serves on the board of directors of a NorthWestern subsidiary. 44 Bobbi L. Schroeppel Vice President-Customer Care and Communications since September 2005; formerly Vice President-Customer Care since June 2002; formerly Director-Staff Activities and Corporate Strategy since August 2001; formerly Director-Corporate Strategy since June 2000. 40 Officers are elected annually by, and hold office at the pleasure of the Board, and do not serve a “term of office” as such. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risk factors described below, as well as all other information available to you, before making an investment in our shares or other securities. Economic conditions and instability in the financial markets could negatively impact our business. Our operations are impacted by local, national and worldwide economic conditions. The consequences of a prolonged recession may include a lower level of economic activity and uncertainty regarding energy prices and the capital and commodity markets. A lower level of economic activity may result in a decline in energy consumption and an increase in customers’ inability to pay their accounts, which may adversely affect our liquidity, results of operations and future growth. Access to the capital and credit markets, at a reasonable cost, is necessary for us to fund our operations, including capital requirements. We rely on a revolving credit facility for short-term liquidity needs due to the seasonality of our business, and on capital markets to raise capital for growth projects that are not otherwise provided by operating cash flows. Continued instability in the financial markets may increase the cost of capital, limit our ability to draw on our credit facility, negatively impact our ability to refinance debt maturing in 2009 and / or raise capital. If we are unable to obtain the liquidity needed to meet our business requirements on favorable terms, we may defer growth projects and/or capital expenditures. We are subject to extensive governmental laws and regulations that affect our industry and our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and results of operations. We are subject to regulation by federal and state governmental entities, including the FERC, MPSC, SDPUC and NPSC. Regulations can affect allowed rates of return, recovery of costs and operating requirements. Specifically, in our recent proceeding related to Colstrip Unit 4, the MPSC approved a 10% return on equity and 6.5% cost of debt for the expected 34-year life of the plant. In addition, existing regulations may be revised or reinterpreted, new laws, regulations, and interpretations thereof may be adopted or become applicable to us and future changes in laws and regulations may have a detrimental effect on our business. Our rates are approved by our respective commissions and are effective until new rates are approved. In addition, supply costs are recovered through adjustment charges that are periodically reset to reflect current and 22 projected costs. Inability to recover costs in rates or adjustment clauses could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and results of operations. We are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations and potential environmental liabilities, which could result in significant costs and liabilities. We are subject to extensive laws and regulations imposed by federal, state, and local government authorities in the ordinary course of operations with regard to the environment, including environmental laws and regulations relating to air and water quality, solid waste disposal, and other environmental considerations. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with environmental regulatory requirements and that maintaining compliance with current requirements will not materially affect our financial position or results of operations; however, possible future developments, including the promulgation of more stringent environmental laws and regulations, such as the new mercury emissions rules in Montana, and the timing of future enforcement proceedings that may be taken by environmental authorities could affect the costs and the manner in which we conduct our business and could require us to make substantial additional capital expenditures. In addition to the requirements related to the mercury emissions rules noted above, there is a growing concern nationally and internationally about global climate change and the contribution of emissions of greenhouse gases including, most significantly, carbon dioxide. This concern has led to increased interest in legislation at the federal level, actions at the state level, as well as litigation relating to greenhouse emissions, including a U.S. Supreme Court decision holding that the EPA relied on improper factors in deciding not to regulate carbon dioxide emissions from motor vehicles under the Clean Air Act. Increased pressure for carbon dioxide emissions reduction also is coming from investor organizations. If legislation or regulations are passed at the federal or state levels imposing mandatory reductions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases on generation facilities, the cost to us of such reductions could be significant. Many of these environmental laws and regulations create permit and license requirements and provide for substantial civil and criminal fines which, if imposed, could result in material costs or liabilities. We cannot predict with certainty the occurrence of private tort allegations or government claims for damages associated with specific environmental conditions. We may be required to make significant expenditures in connection with the investigation and remediation of alleged or actual spills, personal injury or property damage claims, and the repair, upgrade or expansion of our facilities to meet future requirements and obligations under environmental laws. To the extent that our environmental liabilities are greater than our reserves or we are unsuccessful in recovering anticipated insurance proceeds under the relevant policies or recovering a material portion of remediation costs in our rates, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. To the extent our incurred supply costs are deemed imprudent by the applicable state regulatory commissions, we would under recover our costs, which could adversely impact our results of operations and liquidity. Our wholesale costs for electricity and natural gas are recovered through various pass-through cost tracking mechanisms in each of the states we serve. The rates are established based upon projected market prices or contract obligations. As these variables change, we adjust our rates through our monthly trackers. To the extent our energy supply costs are deemed imprudent by the applicable state regulatory commissions, we would under recover our costs, which could adversely impact our results of operations. We are required to procure our entire natural gas supply and a large portion of our Montana electric supply pursuant to contracts with third-party suppliers. In light of this reliance on third-party suppliers, we are exposed to certain risks in the event a third-party supplier is unable to satisfy its contractual obligation. If this occurred, then we might be required to purchase gas and/or electricity supply requirements in the energy markets, which may not be on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If prices were higher in the energy markets, it could result in a temporary material under recovery that would reduce our liquidity. 23 Poor investment performance of plan assets of our defined benefit pension and post-retirement benefit plans, in addition to other factors impacting these costs, could unfavorably impact our results of operations and liquidity. We have two defined benefit pension plans that cover substantially all of our employees, and a post-retirement medical plan for our Montana employees. The costs of providing these plans are dependent upon a number of factors, including rate of return on plan assets, discount rates, other actuarial assumptions, and government regulation. While we have complied with the minimum funding requirements, our obligations for these plans exceed the value of plan assets. In addition, the Pension Protection Act of 2006 changed the minimum funding requirements for defined benefit pension plans beginning in 2008. Without sustained growth in the plan assets over time and depending upon the other factors noted above, we could be required to fund our plans with significant amounts of cash. Such cash funding obligations may change significantly from projections, and could have a material impact on our liquidity and results of operations. Our plans for future expansion through transmission grid expansion, the construction of power generation facilities and capital improvements to current assets involve substantial risks. Failure to adequately execute and manage significant construction plans, as well as the risk of recovering such costs, could materially impact our results of operations and liquidity. We have proposed capital investment projects in excess of $1 billion. The completion of these projects, which are primarily investments in electric transmission projects and electric generation projects, are subject to many construction and development risks, including, but not limited to, risks related to financing, regulatory recovery, obtaining and complying with terms of permits, escalating costs of materials and labor, meeting construction budgets and schedules, and environmental compliance. In addition, there are other proposed projects that may result in direct competition to our proposed transmission expansion. Should our efforts be unsuccessful, we could be subject to additional costs, termination payments under committed contracts, and/or the write-off of investments in these projects. We have capitalized approximately $6.7 million of costs associated with these projects as of December 31, 2008. Our obligation to supply a minimum annual quantity of power to the Montana electric supply could expose us to material commodity price risk if certain Qualifying Facilities (QF) under contract with us do not perform during a time of high commodity prices, as we are required to supply any quantity deficiency. We perform management of the QF portfolio of resources under the terms and conditions of the QF Tier II Stipulation with the MPSC. This Stipulation may subject us to commodity price risk if the QF portfolio does not perform in a manner to meet the annual minimum energy requirement. As part of the Stipulation and Settlement with the MPSC and other parties in the Tier II Docket, we agreed to supply the electric supply with a certain minimum amount of power at an agreed upon price per MW. The annual minimum energy requirement is achievable under normal QF operations, including normal periods of planned and forced outages. Furthermore, we will not realize commodity price risk unless any required replacement energy cost is in excess of the total amount recovered under the QF contracts. However, to the extent the supplied QF power for any year does not reach the minimum quantity set forth in the settlement, we are obligated to secure the quantity deficiency from other sources. The anticipated source for any quantity deficiency is the wholesale market which, in turn, would subject us to commodity price volatility. Our jointly owned electric generating facilities are subject to operational risks that could result in unscheduled plant outages, unanticipated operation and maintenance expenses and increased power purchase costs. Operation of electric generating facilities involves risks, which can adversely affect energy output and efficiency levels. Most of our generating capacity is coal-fired. We rely on a limited number of suppliers of coal for our regulated generation, making us vulnerable to increased prices for fuel as existing contracts expire or in the event of unanticipated interruptions in fuel supply. We are a captive rail shipper of the Burlington Northern Santa Fe Railway for shipments of coal to the Big Stone Plant (our largest source of generation in South Dakota), making us 24 vulnerable to railroad capacity and operational issues and/or increased prices for coal transportation from a sole supplier. Operational risks also include facility shutdowns due to breakdown or failure of equipment or processes, labor disputes, operator error and catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, floods, intentional acts of destruction or other similar occurrences affecting the electric generating facilities. The loss of a major regulated generating facility would require us to find other sources of supply, if available, and expose us to higher purchased power costs. Seasonal and quarterly fluctuations of our business could adversely affect our results of operations and liquidity. Our electric and natural gas utility business is seasonal, and weather patterns can have a material impact on our financial performance. Demand for electricity and natural gas is often greater in the summer and winter months associated with cooling and heating. Because natural gas is heavily used for residential and commercial heating, the demand for this product depends heavily upon weather patterns throughout our market areas, and a significant amount of natural gas revenues are recognized in the first and fourth quarters related to the heating season. Accordingly, our operations have historically generated less revenues and income when weather conditions are milder in the winter and cooler in the summer. In the event that we experience unusually mild winters or cool summers in the future, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, exceptionally hot summer weather or unusually cold winter weather could add significantly to working capital needs to fund higher than normal supply purchases to meet customer demand for electricity and natural gas. We must meet certain credit quality standards. If we are unable to maintain investment grade credit ratings, we would be required under certain credit agreements to provide collateral in the form of letters of credit or cash, which may materially adversely affect our liquidity and/or access to capital. A downgrade of our credit ratings to less than investment grade could adversely affect our liquidity, as counter parties could require us to post collateral. In addition, our ability to raise capital on favorable terms could be hindered, and our borrowing costs could increase. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 