ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risk factors described below, as well as all other information available to you, before making an investment in our shares or other securities. The agreement to sell NorthWestern to BBI will be completed only if certain conditions are met, including various federal and state regulatory approvals. If the sale is not completed, then our shareholders may not be able to obtain the premium for their shares of common stock offered in the proposed transaction. The agreement to sell NorthWestern to BBI is still subject to MPSC approval and certain other closing conditions. The inability to obtain MPSC approval or fulfill those closing conditions could result in the termination of the agreement. If the BBI transaction does not close, then our shareholders will not receive the agreed upon purchase price per share. We have incurred, and may continue to incur, significant costs associated with outstanding litigation and the formal investigation being conducted by the SEC relating to the restatement of our 2002 quarterly financial statements and other accounting and financial reporting matters (SEC investigation), which may adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. These costs, which are being expensed as incurred, have had, and may continue to have an adverse affect on our results of operations and cash flows. Pending litigation matters are discussed in detail under the Legal Proceedings section in Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. An adverse result in any of these matters could have an adverse effect on our business. We are subject to extensive governmental regulations that affect our industry and our operations. Existing and changed regulations and possible deregulation have the potential to impose significant costs, increase competition and change in rates which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning taxes, service areas, tariffs, rates, issuances of securities, employment, occupational health and safety, protection of the environment and other matters. In addition, we are required to obtain and comply with a wide variety of licenses, permits and other approvals in order to operate our facilities. In the course of complying with these requirements, we may incur significant costs. If we fail to comply with these requirements, then we could be subject to civil or criminal liability and the imposition of liens or fines. In addition, existing regulations may be revised or reinterpreted, new laws, regulations, and interpretations thereof may be adopted or become applicable to us and future changes in laws and regulations may have a detrimental effect on our business. We are regulated by commissions in the states we serve. As a result, these commissions review our books and records, including energy supply contracts, which could result in rate changes or other limitations on our ability to recover costs and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Competition for various aspects of electric and natural gas services has been introduced throughout the country that will 20 open these markets to new providers of some or all of traditional electric utility and natural gas services. Competition could result in the further unbundling of electric utility and natural gas services as has occurred in Montana for electricity and in Montana, South Dakota and Nebraska for natural gas. Separate markets may emerge for generation, transmission, distribution, meter reading, billing and other services currently provided by electric utility and natural gas providers as a bundled service. As a result, additional competitors could become active in the generation, transmission and distribution segments of our industry. To the extent our incurred supply costs are deemed imprudent by the applicable state regulatory commissions, we would under-recover our costs, which could adversely impact our results of operations and liquidity. Our wholesale costs for electricity and natural gas are recovered through various pass-through cost tracking mechanisms in each of the states we serve. The rates are established based upon projected market prices or contract obligations. As these variables change, we adjust our rates through our monthly trackers. To the extent our energy supply costs are deemed imprudent by the MPSC or other applicable state regulatory commissions, we would under-recover our costs, which could adversely impact our results of operations. During the fourth quarter of 2005, the MCC submitted testimony alleging we were imprudent and recommending the MPSC consider disallowing portions of our forecasted electric and natural gas supply costs contained in the 2005 tracker filings. In March 2006, upon signing a stipulation with the MCC, we recognized a loss of approximately $4.3 million related to the removal of replacement costs and certain forward sales contracts from our 2005-2006 electric tracking period forecast. The stipulation settles various issues relative to our electric supply costs raised by the MCC and has been approved by the MPSC in its final order regarding our 2005 electric tracker filing. Our actual costs for the 2005-2006 tracking period were presented in our 2006 tracker filing. The MPSC suspended the 2006 electric tracker docket and will combine it with our 2007 tracker filing for processing purposes. In May 2006, the MPSC approved our 2005 annual natural gas tracker as filed. We do not own any natural gas reserves or regulated electric generation assets to service our Montana operations. As a result, we are required to procure our entire natural gas supply and substantially all of our Montana electricity supply pursuant to contracts with third-party suppliers. In light of this reliance on third-party suppliers, we are exposed to certain risks in the event a third-party supplier is unable to satisfy its contractual obligation. If this occurred, then we might be required to purchase gas and/or electricity supply requirements in the energy markets, which may not be on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If prices were higher in the energy markets, it could result in a temporary material under recovery that would reduce our liquidity. Our obligation to supply a minimum annual quantity of power to the Montana default supply could expose us to material commodity price risk if certain qualifying facilities (QFs) under contract with us do not supply during a time of high commodity prices, as we are required to supply any quantity deficiency. We perform management of the QF portfolio of resources under the terms and conditions of the QF Tier II Stipulation. This Stipulation may subject us to commodity price risk if the QF portfolio does not perform in a manner to meet the annual minimum energy requirement. As part of the Stipulation and Settlement with the MPSC and other parties in the Tier II Docket, we agreed to supply the default supply with a certain minimum amount of power at an agreed upon price per megawatt. The annual minimum energy requirement is achievable under normal QF operations, including normal periods of planned and forced outages. Furthermore, we will not realize commodity price risk, unless any required replacement energy cost is in excess of the total amount recovered under the QF contracts. However, to the extent the supplied QF power for any year does not reach the minimum quantity set forth in the settlement, we are obligated to secure the quantity deficiency from other sources. Since we own no material generation in Montana, the anticipated source for any quantity deficiency is the wholesale market which, in turn, would subject us to commodity price volatility. The value of our Colstrip Unit 4 leasehold improvements could be impaired if we are unable to obtain adequate terms on 132 megawatts of power that are not under contract after 2010. Beginning July 1, 2007, 90 megawatts of base-load energy from Colstrip Unit 4 has been committed to supply a portion of the Montana default supply for a term of 11.5 years, commencing on July 1, 2007, at an average nominal price of $35.80 per megawatt hour. We expect that the sale of the 132 megawatts of our remaining output, which is not under contract after 21 2010, will be sufficient to allow us to recover the carrying value of our Colstrip Unit 4 leasehold improvements. If we are unable to sell the 132 megawatts at such a sufficient price, then the value of our Colstrip Unit 4 leasehold improvements would be materially adversely impacted. Our jointly owned electric generating facilities and our leasehold interest in Colstrip Unit 4 are subject to operational risks that could result in unscheduled plant outages, unanticipated operation and maintenance expenses and increased power purchase costs. Operation of electric generating facilities involves risks which can adversely affect energy output and efficiency levels. Most of our generating capacity is coal-fired. We rely on a limited number of suppliers of coal, making us vulnerable to increased prices for fuel as existing contracts expire or in the event of unanticipated interruptions in fuel supply. We are a captive rail shipper of the Burlington Northern Santa Fe Railway for shipments of coal to the Big Stone I Plant (our largest source of generation in South Dakota), making us vulnerable to railroad capacity issues and/or increased prices for coal transportation from a sole supplier. Operational risks also include facility shutdowns due to breakdown or failure of equipment or processes, labor disputes, operator error and catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, floods, intentional acts of destruction or other similar occurrences affecting the electric generating facilities. The loss of a major generating facility would require us to find other sources of supply, if available, and expose us to higher purchased power costs. Seasonal and quarterly fluctuations of our business could adversely affect our results of operations and liquidity. Our electric and natural gas utility business is seasonal and weather patterns can have a material impact on our financial performance. Demand for electricity and natural gas is often greater in the summer and winter months associated with cooling and heating. Because natural gas is heavily used for residential and commercial heating, the demand for this product depends heavily upon weather patterns throughout our market areas, and a significant amount of natural gas revenues are recognized in the first and fourth quarters related to the heating season. Accordingly, our operations have historically generated less revenues and income when weather conditions are milder in the winter and cooler in the summer. In the event that we experience unusually mild winters or cool summers in the future, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, exceptionally hot summer weather or unusually cold winter weather could add significantly to working capital needs to fund higher than normal supply purchases to meet customer demand for electricity and natural gas. Our utility business is subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations and potential environmental liabilities, which could result in significant costs and liabilities. Our utility business is subject to extensive laws and regulations imposed by federal, state and local government authorities in the ordinary course of operations with regard to the environment, including environmental laws and regulations relating to air and water quality, solid waste disposal and other environmental considerations. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with environmental regulatory requirements and that maintaining compliance with current requirements will not materially affect our financial position or results of operations. However, possible future developments, including the promulgation of more stringent environmental laws and regulations, such as the new mercury emissions rules in Montana, and the timing of future enforcement proceedings that may be taken by environmental authorities could affect the costs and the manner in which we conduct our business and could require us to make substantial additional capital expenditures. Many of these environmental laws and regulations create permit and license requirements and provide for substantial civil and criminal fines which, if imposed, could result in material costs or liabilities. We cannot predict with certainty the occurrence of private tort allegations or government claims for damages associated with specific environmental conditions. We may be required to make significant expenditures in connection with the investigation and remediation of alleged or actual spills, personal injury or property damage claims, and the repair, upgrade or expansion of our facilities in order to meet future requirements and obligations under environmental laws. Environmental laws and regulations require us to incur certain costs, which could be substantial, to operate existing facilities, construct and operate new facilities, and mitigate or remove the effect of past operations on the environment. Governmental regulations establishing environmental protection standards are continually evolving, and, therefore, the character, scope, cost and availability of the measures we may be required to take to ensure compliance with evolving laws or regulations cannot be predicted. Our range of exposure for environmental remediation obligations is estimated to be $20.4 million to $56.1 million. We had an environmental reserve of $34.1 million at December 31, 2006. This reserve was 22 established in anticipation of future remediation activities at our various environmental sites and does not factor in any exposure to us arising from new regulations, private tort actions or claims for damages allegedly associated with specific environmental conditions. To the extent that our environmental liabilities are greater than our reserves or we are unsuccessful in recovering anticipated insurance proceeds under the relevant policies or recovering a material portion of remediation costs in our rates, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. A downgrade in our credit ratings could negatively affect our ability to operate our business and/or access capital. A downgrade of our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity, as counter parties could require us to post collateral. In addition, our ability to raise capital on favorable terms could be hindered and our borrowing costs could increase. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 