ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risk factors described below, as well as all other information available to you, before making an investment in our shares or other securities. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, significant costs associated with outstanding litigation, which may adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant costs associated with outstanding litigation. These costs, which are being expensed as incurred, are expected to have an adverse affect on our results of operations and cash flows. Although our Plan of Reorganization (Plan) has been successfully consummated and we have emerged from bankruptcy, we expect to continue to incur significant costs in connection with the steps necessary to close the bankruptcy case which include, among other things, resolution of remaining unsecured claims, administration of the claim reserve, coordination with the Plan Committee and the resolution of appeals and certain pending litigation. Pending litigation includes significant matters such as Magten/Law Debenture and McGreevey, as well as various other matters, which are discussed in detail under Item 3, Legal Proceedings. An adverse result in any of these litigated matters could have an adverse effect on our business. 24 Certain of our prepetition creditors received NorthWestern common stock pursuant to our Plan and may have the ability to influence certain aspects of our business operations. Under our Plan, holders of certain claims received distributions of shares of our common stock. Harbinger Capital Partners Master Fund I, Ltd. f/k/a Harbert Distressed Investment Master Fund Ltd. (Harbinger) is affiliated with or manages funds, which based on the most recent information made available to us, collectively received more than 20% of our new common stock. Harbinger could acquire additional claims or shares, or divest claims or shares in the future. Our prepetition senior unsecured noteholders, trade vendors with claims in excess of $20,000 and holders of our trust preferred securities and our quarterly income preferred securities received, collectively, approximately 90% of our new common stock. Other than Harbinger, however, we are not aware of any entity that owns or controls 10% or more of our common stock distributed upon emergence pursuant to our Plan. On December 5, 2005, we adopted a shareholders’ rights plan in order to protect NorthWestern against coercive actions by third parties that could be detrimental to the best interests of all the shareholders and to permit the Board of Directors to review and evaluate its strategic alternatives in an orderly fashion. Under the rights plan, preferred stock purchase rights will be distributed as a dividend at the rate of one right for each share of common stock of NorthWestern held by shareholders of record as of the close of business on December 15, 2005. The rights will expire on December 5, 2015. The rights generally will be exercisable only if a person or group acquires beneficial ownership of 15% or more of our common stock. A person or group who beneficially owns 15% or more of the outstanding shares of our common stock prior to the adoption of the rights plan will not cause the rights to become exercisable upon adoption of the rights plan. As a result, the rights will not be triggered even though Harbinger beneficially owned approximately 20% of the outstanding shares of our common stock prior to the adoption of the rights plan. However, Harbinger will cause the rights to become exercisable if it (subject to certain exceptions) becomes the beneficial owner of additional shares of our common stock or its beneficial ownership decreases below 15% and subsequently, increases to 15% or more. If any holders of a significant number of the shares of our common stock were to act as a group, then such holders could cause the rights to become exercisable. If the rights plan could not be enforced as a result of an adverse decision by the federal District Court in the City of Livonia lawsuit or by the Court of Chancery in the Harbinger lawsuit, holders of a significant number of the shares of our common stock were to act as a group, then such holders could be in a position to control the outcome of actions requiring shareholder approval, such as an amendment to our articles of incorporation, the authorization of additional shares of capital stock, and any merger, consolidation, or sale of all or substantially all of our assets, and could prevent or cause a change of control of NorthWestern. We are the subject of a formal investigation by the SEC relating to the restatement of our 2002 quarterly financial statements and other accounting and financial reporting matters. If the investigation was to result in a regulatory proceeding or action against us, then our business and financial condition could be harmed. In December 2003, the SEC notified NorthWestern that it had issued a formal order of private investigation and subsequently subpoenaed documents from NorthWestern, NorthWestern Communications Solutions, Expanets and Blue Dot. This development followed the SEC’s requests for information made in connection with the previously disclosed SEC informal inquiry into questions regarding the restatements and other accounting and financial reporting matters. Since December 2003, we have periodically received and continue to receive subpoenas and informal requests from the SEC requesting documents and testimony from former and current employees as well as third parties regarding these matters. In January 2006, the SEC issued several Wells notices to individuals formerly associated with a now-defunct subsidiary. There have been no findings or adjudication of the underlying allegations in the Wells notices, and the SEC’s investigation is ongoing and it could issue additional Wells notices. In addition, certain of our former directors and several former and current employees of NorthWestern and our subsidiary affiliates have been interviewed by representatives of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and Internal Revenue Service (IRS) concerning certain of the allegations made in the now resolved class action securities and derivative litigation as well as 25 other matters. We have not been advised that NorthWestern is the subject of any FBI or IRS investigation. We are not aware of any other governmental inquiry or investigation related to these matters. We are fully cooperating with the SEC’s investigation and intend to cooperate with the FBI and IRS if we are requested to do so in connection with any investigation. We cannot predict whether or not any other governmental inquiry or investigation will be commenced. We cannot predict when the SEC investigation will be completed or its outcome. If the SEC determines that we have violated federal securities laws and institutes civil enforcement proceedings against us, as a result of a ruling by the Bankruptcy Court, the SEC may not be able to pursue civil sanctions, including, but not limited to, monetary penalties against NorthWestern. The SEC has not appealed such order. The SEC could, however, pursue other remedies and penalties against NorthWestern. We are subject to extensive governmental regulations that affect our industry and our operations. Existing and changed regulations and possible deregulation have the potential to impose significant costs, increase competition and change rates which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning taxes, service areas, tariffs, rates, issuances of securities, employment, occupational health and safety, protection of the environment and other matters. In addition, we are required to obtain and comply with a wide variety of licenses, permits and other approvals in order to operate our facilities. In the course of complying with these requirements, we may incur significant costs. If we fail to comply with these requirements, then we could be subject to civil or criminal liability and the imposition of liens or fines. In addition, existing regulations may be revised or reinterpreted, new laws, regulations, and interpretations thereof may be adopted or become applicable to us and future changes in laws and regulations may have a detrimental effect on our business. Our utility businesses are regulated by certain state commissions. As a result, these commissions review the regulated utility’s books and records, which could result in rate changes and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Competition for various aspects of electric and natural gas services has been introduced throughout the country that will open these markets to new providers of some or all of traditional electric utility and natural gas services. Competition could result in the further unbundling of electric utility and natural gas services as has occurred in Montana for electricity and Montana, South Dakota and Nebraska for natural gas. Separate markets may emerge for generation, transmission, distribution, meter reading, billing and other services currently provided by electric utility and natural gas providers as a bundled service. As a result, additional competitors could become active in the generation, transmission and distribution segments of our industry. To the extent our incurred supply costs are deemed imprudent by the applicable state regulatory commissions, we would under-recover our costs, which could adversely impact our results of operations. Our wholesale costs for electricity and natural gas are recovered through various pass-through cost tracking mechanisms in each of the states we serve. The rates are established based upon projected market prices or contract obligations. As these variables change, we adjust our rates through our monthly trackers. During the fourth quarter of 2005, the Montana Consumer Counsel submitted testimony alleging we were imprudent and recommending the MPSC consider disallowing portions of our electric and natural gas supply costs for the 2005 and 2006 tracker years. We cannot predict how the MPSC will act on these recommendations and to the extent our energy supply costs are deemed imprudent by the MPSC or other applicable state regulatory commissions, we would under-recover our costs, which could adversely impact our results of operations. We do not own any natural gas reserves or regulated electric generation assets to service our Montana operations. As a result, we are required to procure our entire natural gas supply and substantially all of our Montana electricity supply pursuant to contracts with third-party suppliers. In light of this reliance on third-party suppliers, we are exposed to certain risks in the event a third-party supplier is unable to satisfy its contractual obligation. If this occurred, we might be required to purchase gas and/or electricity supply 26 requirements in the energy markets, which may not be on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If prices were higher in the energy markets, it could result in a temporary material under-recovery that would reduce our liquidity. Our obligation to supply a minimum annual quantity of qualifying facility (QF) power to the Montana default supply could expose us to material commodity price risk if we are required to supply any quantity deficiency during a time of high commodity prices. We perform management of the QF portfolio of resources under the terms and conditions of the QF Tier II Stipulation. This Stipulation, may subject us to commodity price risk if the QF portfolio does not perform in a manner to meet the annual minimum energy requirement. As part of the Stipulation and Settlement with the MPSC and other parties in the Tier II Docket, we agreed to supply the default supply with a certain minimum amount of QF power at an agreed upon price per megawatt. The annual minimum energy requirement is achievable under normal operations, including normal periods of planned and forced outages. Furthermore, we will not realize commodity price risk, unless any required replacement energy cost is in excess of the total amount recovered under the QF contracts, which is currently approximately $65.00 per MWH for base-load energy. However, to the extent the supplied QF power for any year does not reach the minimum quantity set forth in the settlement, we are obligated to secure the quantity deficiency from other sources. Since we own no material generation in Montana, the anticipated source for any quantity deficiency is the wholesale market which, in turn, would subject us to commodity price volatility. A recent stipulation with the MCC addresses how any energy shortfall will be managed and further restricts some of our ability to protect against such events. The value of our Colstrip Unit 4 leasehold improvements could be impaired if we are unable to obtain adequate terms on 132 megawatts of power that are not under contract after 2010. During the course of our bankruptcy reorganization proceedings, we offered to provide 90 megawatts of baseload energy from Colstrip 4 into the Montana default supply for a term of 11.5 years, commencing on July 1, 2007, at an average nominal price of $35.80 per megawatt hour. This offer was made as part of a negotiated process with the MPSC and the MCC to settle their intervention in opposition to our request that the Bankruptcy Court approve our contract amendment with Duke and was below prevailing market prices. We expect that the sale of the 132 megawatts of our remaining output, which is not under contract after 2010, will be sufficient to allow us to recover the carrying value of our Colstrip Unit 4 leasehold improvements. If we are unable to sell the 132 megawatts at such a sufficient price, the value of our Colstrip Unit 4 leasehold improvements would be materially adversely impacted. Our electric and natural gas distribution systems are subject to municipal condemnation. The government of each of the municipalities in which we provide electric or natural gas service has the right to condemn our facilities in that community and to establish a municipal utility distribution system to serve customers by use of such facilities, subject to the approval of the voters of the community and the payment to NorthWestern of fair market value for our facilities, including compensation for the cancellation of our service rights. If we lose a material portion of our distribution systems to municipal condemnation, then our results of operations and financial condition could be harmed because we may not be able to replace or repurchase income generating assets in a timely manner, if at all. Seasonal and quarterly fluctuations of our business could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our electric and natural gas utility business is seasonal and weather patterns can have a material impact on their financial performance. Demand for electricity is often greater in the summer and winter months associated with cooling and heating. Because natural gas is heavily used for residential and commercial heating, 27 the demand for this product depends heavily upon weather patterns throughout our market areas, and a significant amount of natural gas revenues are recognized in the first and fourth quarters related to the heating season. Accordingly, our operations have historically generated less revenues and income when weather conditions are milder in the winter and cooler in the summer. In the event that we experience unusually mild winters or cool summers in the future, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, exceptionally hot summer weather or unusually cold winter weather could add significantly to working capital needs to fund higher than normal supply purchases to meet customer demand for electricity and natural gas. Our utility business is subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations and potential environmental liabilities, which could result in significant costs and liabilities. Our utility business is subject to extensive laws and regulations imposed by federal, state and local government authorities in the ordinary course of operations with regard to the environment, including environmental laws and regulations relating to air and water quality, solid waste disposal and other environmental considerations. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with environmental regulatory requirements and that maintaining compliance with current requirements will not materially affect our financial position or results of operations. However, possible future developments, such as the promulgation of more stringent environmental laws and regulations, and the timing of future enforcement proceedings that may be taken by environmental authorities could affect the costs and the manner in which we conduct our business and could cause us to make substantial additional capital expenditures. There is no assurance that we would be able to recover these increased costs from our customers or that our business, financial condition and results of operations would not be materially adversely affected. Many of these environmental laws and regulations create permit and license requirements and provide for substantial civil and criminal fines which, if imposed, could result in material costs or liabilities. We cannot predict with certainty the occurrence of a private tort allegation or government claim for damages associated with specific environmental conditions. We may be required to make significant expenditures in connection with the investigation and remediation of alleged or actual spills, personal injury or property damage claims, and the repair, upgrade or expansion of our facilities in order to meet future requirements and obligations under environmental laws. Environmental laws and regulations require us to incur certain costs, which could be substantial, to operate existing facilities, construct and operate new facilities, and mitigate or remove the effect of past operations on the environment. Governmental regulations establishing environmental protection standards are continually evolving, and, therefore, the character, scope, cost and availability of the measures we may be required to take to ensure compliance with evolving laws or regulations cannot be predicted. Our range of exposure for environmental remediation obligations is estimated to be $29.5 million to $66.2 million. We had an environmental reserve of $44.6 million at December 31, 2005. This reserve was established in anticipation of future remediation activities at our various environmental sites and does not factor in any exposure to us arising from new regulations, private tort actions or government claims for damages allegedly associated with specific environmental conditions. These environmental liabilities will continue and any claims with respect to environmental liabilities were not extinguished pursuant to our Plan. To the extent that our environmental liabilities are greater than our reserves or we are unsuccessful in recovering anticipated insurance proceeds under the relevant policies or recovering a material portion of remediation costs in our rates, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our non-investment grade credit ratings has impacted our borrowing costs and liquidity, and we expect that our non-investment grade status will continue to affect our cash flows and liquidity. Upon emergence from bankruptcy, we were assigned a non-investment grade credit rating. Our current non-investment grade ratings have impacted our borrowing costs. While we have obtained favorable credit terms with many of our suppliers, we cannot be assured these suppliers will continue to allow such terms if we 28 do not achieve an investment grade rating. A reduction in credit terms could adversely affect our liquidity. We also began payment of quarterly dividends on our common stock in the first quarter of 2005, which may delay our ability to achieve an investment grade rating for our debt securities. While we are working to resolve many of the concerns cited by the credit rating agencies, we cannot assure you that our credit ratings will improve in the foreseeable future. Our ability to access the capital markets is dependent on our ability to obtain certain regulatory approvals and constrained by the covenants contained in our debt instruments. We may need to continue to support working capital and capital expenditures, and to refinance maturing debt, through external financing. Often, we must obtain federal and certain state regulatory approvals in order to borrow money or to issue securities and therefore will be dependent on the federal and state regulatory authorities to issue favorable orders in a timely manner to permit us to finance our operations. We cannot assure you that these regulatory entities will issue such orders or that such orders will be issued on a timely basis. In addition, prior to our obtaining investment grade ratings, specific debt convents restrict our ability to borrow above a 60% debt to capital threshold without further lender approval. We may receive, respond to and not pursue, as appropriate, unsolicited indications of interest, proposals or offers to acquire us or some or all of our assets, and if not pursued, our shareholders may not be able to obtain a premium for their shares of common stock offered in the proposed transaction. We have in the past received and may receive in the future unsolicited indications of interest, proposals or offers to acquire us or some or all of our assets or our outstanding stock. We have begun a process of evaluating strategic alternatives with a view to maximizing long-term shareholder value. As we have stated on prior occasions, as a public company we may receive such indications of interest, proposals or offers, and if we do, our Board of Directors will evaluate them to consider the best interests of all shareholders and respond as appropriate. There can be no assurance that we will pursue any such indication of interest, proposal or offer, and our Board of Directors reserves the right not to pursue any offer to acquire us, or any of our assets. As a consequence of any decision not to pursue an acquisition of us, our shareholders would not be able to sell or exchange their shares of common stock at any premium offered by the prospective buyer in the proposed transaction. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 