ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSYou should carefully consider the risk factors described below, as well as all other information available to you, before making an investment in our common stock or other securities. We are subject to extensive and changing governmental laws and regulations that affect our industry and our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and results of operations. The profitability of our operations is dependent on our ability to recover the costs of providing energy and utility services to our customers and earn a return on our capital investment in our utility operations. We provide service at rates approved by one or more regulatory commissions. These rates are generally regulated based on an analysis of our costs incurred in a historical test year. In addition, each regulatory commission sets rates based in part upon their acceptance of an allocated share 16of total utility costs. When commissions adopt different methods to calculate inter-jurisdictional cost allocations, some costs may not be recovered. Thus, the rates we are allowed to charge may or may not match our costs at any given time. While rate regulation is premised on providing a reasonable opportunity to earn a reasonable rate of return on invested capital, there can be no assurance that the applicable regulatory commission will judge all of our costs to have been prudently incurred or that the regulatory process in which rates are determined will always result in rates that will produce full recovery of such costs. For example, in our regulatory filings related to DGGS, we proposed an allocation of approximately 80% of costs to retail customers subject to the MPSC's jurisdiction and approximately 20% allocated to wholesale customers subject to FERC's jurisdiction. There is significant uncertainty related to the ultimate resolution of cost allocations being consistent with our proposal between the two jurisdictions, which could result in an inability to fully recover our costs, as well as requiring us to refund more interim revenues than our current estimate. We are also subject to the jurisdiction of FERC with regard to electric system reliability standards. We must comply with the standards and requirements established, which apply to the NERC functions for which we have registered in both the MRO for our South Dakota operations and the WECC for our Montana operations. The FERC can impose penalties for violation of FERC statutes, rules and orders of $1 million per violation per day. In addition, more than 120 electric reliability standards are mandatory and subject to potential financial penalties by NERC or FERC for violations. If a serious reliability incident did occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating and financial results. In addition, changes in laws and regulations may have a detrimental effect on our business. In July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which is intended to improve regulation of financial markets was signed into law. Certain provisions of the Act relating to derivatives could result in increased capital and/or collateral requirements. Despite certain exemptions in the law, we will not know if we qualify for the exemptions until the rule making has been completed, and, even if we qualify for the exemptions, concern remains that counterparties not qualifying for the exemption will pass along the increased cost and margin requirements through higher prices and reductions in unsecured credit limits. We are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations and potential environmental liabilities, which could result in significant costs and additional liabilities. We are subject to extensive laws and regulations imposed by federal, state, and local government authorities in the ordinary course of operations with regard to the environment, including environmental laws and regulations relating to air and water quality, protection of natural resources and wildlife, solid waste disposal, coal ash and other environmental considerations. We believe that we are in compliance with environmental regulatory requirements; however, possible future developments, such as more stringent environmental laws and regulations, and the timing of future enforcement proceedings that may be taken by environmental authorities could affect our costs and the manner in which we conduct our business and could require us to make substantial additional capital expenditures. There are national and international efforts to adopt measures related to global climate change and the contribution of emissions of GHGs including, most significantly, carbon dioxide. These efforts include legislative proposals and agency regulations at the federal level, actions at the state level, as well as litigation relating to GHG emissions. Increased pressure for carbon dioxide emissions reduction also is coming from investor organizations. If legislation or regulations are passed at the federal or state levels imposing mandatory reductions of carbon dioxide and other GHGs on generation facilities, the cost to us of such reductions could be significant. Many of these environmental laws and regulations create permit and license requirements and provide for substantial civil and criminal fines which, if imposed, could result in material costs or liabilities. We cannot predict with certainty the occurrence of private tort allegations or government claims for damages associated with specific environmental conditions. We may be required to make significant expenditures in connection with the investigation and remediation of alleged or actual spills, personal injury or property damage claims, and the repair, upgrade or expansion of our facilities to meet future requirements and obligations under environmental laws. To the extent that costs exceed our estimated environmental liabilities and/or we are not successful recovering a material portion of remediation costs in our rates, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. Our plans for future expansion through capital improvements to current assets, new electric generation or natural gas reserves, and transmission grid expansion involve substantial risks. Failure to adequately execute and manage significant construction plans, as well as the risk of recovering such costs, could materially impact our results of operations and liquidity.17 We have proposed capital investment projects in excess of $1 billion, which includes investment in capital improvements and additions to modernize existing infrastructure, generation investments and transmission capacity expansion. The age of our existing assets may result in them being more costly to maintain and susceptible to outages in spite of diligent efforts by us to properly maintain these assets through inspection, scheduled maintenance and capital investment. The failure of such assets could result in increased expenses which may not be fully recoverable from customers and/or a reduction in revenue. The completion of generation and natural gas investments and transmission projects are subject to many construction and development risks, including, but not limited to, risks related to financing, regulatory recovery, escalating costs of materials and labor, meeting construction budgets and schedules, and environmental compliance. Construction of new transmission facilities required to support future growth is subject to certain additional risks, including but not limited to: (i) our ability to obtain necessary approvals and permits from regulatory agencies on a timely basis and on terms that are acceptable to us; (ii) potential changes in federal, state and local statutes and regulations, including environmental requirements, that prevent a project from proceeding or increase the anticipated cost of the project; (iii) inability to acquire rights-of-way or land rights on a timely basis on terms that are acceptable to us; and (iv) insufficient customer throughput commitments. In addition, there are projects proposed by other parties that may result in direct competition to our proposed transmission expansion. As of December 31, 2011, we have capitalized approximately $20.9 million in preliminary survey and investigative costs related to MSTI. If we are unable to complete the development and ultimate construction of MSTI or decide to delay or cancel construction for any reason, including failure to receive necessary regulatory approvals and/or siting or environmental permits, we may not be able to recover our investment. Even if MSTI is completed, the total costs may be higher than estimated and there is no assurance that we will be able to recover such costs from MSTI customers. If our efforts to complete MSTI are not successful we may have to write-off all or a portion of these costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. See Note 16 - Regulatory Matters to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of this project. Our capital projects will require a significant amount of capital expenditures. We cannot provide certainty that adequate external financing will be available to support these projects. Additionally, borrowings incurred to finance construction may adversely impact our leverage, which could increase our cost of capital. We may pursue joint ventures or similar arrangements with third parties in order to share some of the financing and operational risks associated with these projects, but we cannot be certain we will be able to successfully negotiate any such arrangement. Furthermore, joint ventures or joint ownership arrangements also present risks and uncertainties, including those associated with sharing control over the construction and operation of a facility and reliance on the other party's financial or operational strength. Our proposed capital investment projects are based on assumptions regarding future growth and resulting power demand that may not be realized. This planning process must look many years into the future in order to accommodate the long lead times associated with the permitting and construction of new generation facilities. Inherent risk exists in predicting demand this far into the future as these future loads are dependent on many uncertain factors, including regional economic conditions, customer usage patterns, efficiency programs, and customer technology adoption. We may increase our transmission and/or baseload capacity and have excess capacity if anticipated growth levels are not realized. The resulting excess capacity could exceed our obligation to serve retail customers or demand for transmission capacity and, as a result, may not be recoverable from customers. Our owned and jointly owned electric generating facilities are subject to operational risks that could result in unscheduled plant outages, unanticipated operation and maintenance expenses and increased power purchase costs. Operation of electric generating facilities involves risks, which can adversely affect energy output and efficiency levels. Most of our generating capacity is coal-fired. We rely on a limited number of suppliers of coal for our electric generation, making us vulnerable to increased prices for fuel as existing contracts expire or in the event of unanticipated interruptions in fuel supply. We are a captive rail shipper of the Burlington Northern Santa Fe Railway for shipments of coal to the Big Stone Plant (our largest source of generation in South Dakota), making us vulnerable to railroad capacity and operational issues and/or increased prices for coal transportation from a sole supplier. Operational risks also include facility shutdowns due to breakdown or failure of equipment or processes, labor disputes, operator error, catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, floods, and intentional acts of destruction or other similar occurrences affecting the electric generating facilities; and operational changes necessitated by environmental legislation or regulation. The loss of a major electric generating facility would require us to find other sources of supply, if available, and expose us to higher purchased power costs. For example, DGGS was shut down on January 31, 2012 and will be down for a period of up to several months following the discovery of a problem within the gas turbines on each of the three generation 18units. We expect to incur incremental costs for contracts with third parties for replacement regulation service. To the extent that the repair costs are not covered by the manufacturer's warranty or the incremental contract costs are not fully recoverable from customers, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected.Our revenues, results of operations and financial condition are impacted by customer growth and usage in our service territories and may fluctuate with current economic conditions. We are also impacted by market conditions outside of our service territories related to demand for transmission capacity and wholesale electric pricing. Our revenues, results of operations and financial condition are impacted by customer growth and usage, which can be impacted by population growth as well as by economic factors. The consequences of a prolonged recession may include a lower level of economic activity and uncertainty regarding energy prices and the capital and commodity markets. While our service territories have been less impacted than some other parts of the country, residential customer consumption patterns may change and our revenues may be negatively impacted. Our commercial and industrial customers have been impacted by the economic downturn, resulting in a decline in their consumption of electricity. Additionally, our customers may voluntarily reduce their consumption of electricity in response to increases in prices, decreases in their disposable income or individual energy conservation efforts. In addition, demand for our Montana transmission capacity fluctuates with regional demand, fuel prices and weather related conditions. Our natural gas distribution activities involve numerous risks that may result in accidents and other operating risks and costs. Inherent in our natural gas distribution activities are a variety of hazards and operating risks, such as leaks, explosions and mechanical problems, which could cause substantial financial losses. In addition, these risks could result in loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of our operations and substantial losses to us. In accordance with customary industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses. The occurrence of any of these events not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. For our distribution lines located near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, industrial sites and other public gathering areas, the level of damages resulting from these risks is greater. To the extent our incurred supply costs are deemed imprudent by the applicable state regulatory commissions, we would not recover some of our costs, which could adversely impact our results of operations and liquidity. Our wholesale costs for electricity and natural gas are recovered through various pass-through cost tracking mechanisms in each of the states we serve. The rates are established based upon projected market prices or contractual obligations. As these variables change, we adjust our rates through our monthly trackers. To the extent our energy supply costs are deemed imprudent by the applicable state regulatory commissions, we would not recover some of our costs, which could adversely impact our results of operations. We currently procure almost all of our natural gas supply and a large portion of our Montana electric supply pursuant to contracts with third-party suppliers. In light of this reliance on third-party suppliers, we are exposed to certain risks in the event a third-party supplier is unable to satisfy its contractual obligation. If this occurred, then we might be required to purchase gas and/or electricity supply requirements in the energy markets, which may not be on favorable terms, if at all. If prices were higher in the energy markets, it could result in a temporary material under recovery that would reduce our liquidity. Poor investment performance of plan assets of our defined benefit pension and post-retirement benefit plans, in addition to other factors impacting these costs, could unfavorably impact our results of operations and liquidity. Our costs for providing defined benefit retirement and postretirement benefit plans are dependent upon a number of factors. Assumptions related to future costs, return on investments and interest rates have a significant impact on our funding requirements related to these plans. These estimates and assumptions may change based on economic conditions, actual stock market performance and changes in governmental regulations. Without sustained growth in the plan assets over time and depending upon interest rate changes as well as other factors noted above, the costs of such plans reflected in our results of operations and financial position and cash funding obligations may change significantly from projections. 19Our obligation to include a minimum annual quantity of power in our Montana electric supply portfolio at an agreed upon price per MWH could expose us to material commodity price risk if certain QFs under contract with us do not perform during a time of high commodity prices, as we are required to supply any quantity deficiency. In addition, we are subject to price escalation risk with one of our largest QF contracts. As part of a previous stipulation in 2002 with the MPSC and other parties, we agreed to include a minimum annual quantity of power in our Montana electric supply portfolio at an agreed upon price per MWH. The annual minimum energy requirement is achievable under normal QF operations, including normal periods of planned and forced outages. Furthermore, we will not realize commodity price risk unless any required replacement energy cost is in excess of the total amount recovered under the QF obligation. However, to the extent the supplied QF power for any year does not reach the minimum quantity set forth in the settlement, we are obligated to secure the quantity deficiency from other sources. The anticipated source for any quantity deficiency is the wholesale market which, in turn, would subject us to commodity price volatility. In addition, we are subject to price escalation risk with one of our largest QF contracts due to variable contract terms. In estimating our QF liability, we have estimated an annual escalation rate of 1.9% over the term of the contract (through June 2024). To the extent the annual escalation rate exceeds 1.9%, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. Weather and weather patterns, including normal seasonal and quarterly fluctuations of weather, as well as extreme weather events that might be associated with climate change, could adversely affect our results of operations and liquidity. Our electric and natural gas utility business is seasonal, and weather patterns can have a material impact on our financial performance. Demand for electricity and natural gas is often greater in the summer and winter months associated with cooling and heating. Because natural gas is heavily used for residential and commercial heating, the demand for this product depends heavily upon weather patterns throughout our market areas, and a significant amount of natural gas revenues are recognized in the first and fourth quarters related to the heating season. Accordingly, our operations have historically generated less revenues and income when weather conditions are milder in the winter and cooler in the summer. In the event that we experience unusually mild winters or cool summers in the future, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. In addition, exceptionally hot summer weather or unusually cold winter weather could add significantly to working capital needs to fund higher than normal supply purchases to meet customer demand for electricity and natural gas. There is also a concern that the physical risks of climate change could include changes in weather conditions, such as an increase in changes in precipitation and extreme weather events. Climate change and the costs that may be associated with its impacts have the potential to affect our business in many ways, including increasing the cost incurred in providing electricity and natural gas, impacting the demand for and consumption of electricity and natural gas (due to change in both costs and weather patterns), and affecting the economic health of the regions in which we operate. Extreme weather conditions creating high energy demand on our own and/or other systems may raise market prices as we buy short-term energy to serve our own system. Severe weather impacts our service territories, primarily through thunderstorms, tornadoes and snow or ice storms. To the extent the frequency of extreme weather events increase, this could increase our cost of providing service. Changes in precipitation resulting in droughts or water shortages could adversely affect our ability to provide electricity to customers, as well as increase the price they pay for energy. In addition, extreme weather may exacerbate the risks to physical infrastructure. We may not recover all costs related to mitigating these physical and financial risks. Our business is dependent on our ability to successfully access capital markets on favorable terms. Limits on our access to capital may adversely impact our ability to execute our business plan or pursue improvements that we would otherwise rely on for future growth. Our cash requirements are driven by the capital-intensive nature of our business. Access to the capital and credit markets, at a reasonable cost, is necessary for us to fund our operations, including capital requirements. We rely on a revolving credit facility and commercial paper market for short-term liquidity needs due to the seasonality of our business, and on capital markets to raise capital for growth projects that are not otherwise provided by operating cash flows. Instability in the financial markets may increase the cost of capital, limit our ability to draw on our revolving credit facility, access the commercial paper market and/or raise capital. If we are unable to obtain the liquidity needed to meet our business requirements on favorable terms, we may defer growth projects and/or capital expenditures. 20We must meet certain credit quality standards. If we are unable to maintain investment grade credit ratings, our liquidity, access to capital and operations could be materially adversely affected. A downgrade of our credit ratings to less than investment grade could adversely affect our liquidity. Certain of our credit agreements and other credit arrangements with counterparties require us to provide collateral in the form of letters of credit or cash to support our obligations if we fall below investment grade. Also, a downgrade below investment grade could hinder our ability to raise capital on favorable terms, including through the commercial paper markets. Higher interest rates on short-term borrowings with variable interest rates or on incremental commercial paper issuances could also have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our secured credit ratings are also tied to our ability to invest in unregulated ventures due to an existing stipulation with the MPSC and MCC, which includes diminishing limits for such investment at certain credit rating levels. The stipulation does not limit investment in unregulated ventures so long as we maintain credit ratings on a secured basis of at least BBB+ from Standard and Poor's Ratings Service and Baa1 from Moody's Investors Service. Threats of terrorism and catastrophic events that could result from terrorism, cyber attacks, or individuals and/or groups attempting to disrupt our business, or the businesses of third parties, may impact our operationsin unpredictable ways and could adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations.We are subject to the potentially adverse operating and financial effects of terrorist acts and threats, as wellas cyber attacks and other disruptive activities of individuals or groups. Our generation, transmission anddistribution facilities, information technology systems and other infrastructure facilities and systems could be direct targets of, or indirectly affected by, such activities.Terrorist acts or other similar events could harm our business by limiting our ability to generate, purchaseor transmit power and by delaying the development and construction of new generating facilities and capital improvements to existing facilities. These events, and governmental actions in response, could result in a material decrease in revenues and significant additional costs to repair and insure assets, and could adversely affect our operations by contributing to disruption of supplies and markets for natural gas, oil and other fuels. These events could also impair our ability to raise capital by contributing to financial instability and lower economic activity.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone