ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risk factors described below, as well as all other information available to you, before making an investment in our shares or other securities. We have incurred, and may continue to incur, significant costs associated with outstanding litigation, which may adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. These costs, which are being expensed as incurred, have had, and may continue to have, an adverse affect on our results of operations and cash flows. Pending litigation matters are discussed in detail under the Legal Proceedings section in Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. An adverse result in any of these matters could have an adverse effect on our business. Seasonal and quarterly fluctuations of our business could adversely affect our results of operations and liquidity. Our electric and natural gas utility business is seasonal, and weather patterns can have a material impact on our financial performance. Demand for electricity and natural gas is often greater in the summer and winter months associated with cooling and heating. Because natural gas is heavily used for residential and commercial heating, the demand for this product depends heavily upon weather patterns throughout our market areas, and a significant amount of natural gas revenues are recognized in the first and fourth quarters related to the heating season. Accordingly, our operations have historically generated less revenues and income when weather conditions are milder in the winter and cooler in the summer. In the event that we experience unusually mild winters or cool summers in the future, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, exceptionally hot summer weather or unusually cold winter weather could add significantly to working capital needs to fund higher than normal supply purchases to meet customer demand for electricity and natural gas. We are subject to extensive governmental laws and regulations that affect our industry and our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to regulation by federal and state governmental entities, including the FERC, MPSC, SDPUC and NPSC. Regulations can affect allowed rates of return, recovery of costs and operating requirements. In addition, existing regulations may be revised or reinterpreted, new laws, regulations, and interpretations thereof may be adopted or become applicable to us 21 and future changes in laws and regulations may have a detrimental effect on our business. Our rates are approved by our respective commissions and are effective until new rates are approved. In addition, supply costs are recovered through adjustment charges that are periodically reset to reflect current and projected costs. Inability to recover costs in rates or adjustment clauses could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. We are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations and potential environmental liabilities, which could result in significant costs and liabilities. We are subject to extensive laws and regulations imposed by federal, state and local government authorities in the ordinary course of operations with regard to the environment, including environmental laws and regulations relating to air and water quality, solid waste disposal and other environmental considerations. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with environmental regulatory requirements and that maintaining compliance with current requirements will not materially affect our financial position or results of operations; however, possible future developments, including the promulgation of more stringent environmental laws and regulations, such as the new mercury emissions rules in Montana, and the timing of future enforcement proceedings that may be taken by environmental authorities could affect the costs and the manner in which we conduct our business and could require us to make substantial additional capital expenditures. In addition to the requirements related to the mercury emissions rules noted above, there is a growing concern nationally and internationally about global climate change and the contribution of emissions of greenhouse gases including, most significantly, carbon dioxide. This concern has led to increased interest in legislation at the federal level, actions at the state level, as well as litigation relating to greenhouse emissions, including a recent US Supreme Court decision holding that the EPA has the authority to regulate carbon dioxide emissions from motor vehicles under the Clean Air Act. Increased pressure for carbon dioxide emissions reduction also is coming from investor organizations. If legislation or regulations are passed at the federal or state levels imposing mandatory reductions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases on generation facilities, the cost to us of such reductions could be significant. Many of these environmental laws and regulations create permit and license requirements and provide for substantial civil and criminal fines which, if imposed, could result in material costs or liabilities. We cannot predict with certainty the occurrence of private tort allegations or government claims for damages associated with specific environmental conditions. We may be required to make significant expenditures in connection with the investigation and remediation of alleged or actual spills, personal injury or property damage claims, and the repair, upgrade or expansion of our facilities in order to meet future requirements and obligations under environmental laws. Our range of exposure for current environmental remediation obligations is estimated to be $19.8 million to $57.0 million. We had an environmental reserve of $32.7 million at December 31, 2007. This reserve was established in anticipation of future remediation activities at our various environmental sites and does not factor in any exposure to us arising from new regulations, private tort actions or claims for damages allegedly associated with specific environmental conditions. To the extent that our environmental liabilities are greater than our reserves or we are unsuccessful in recovering anticipated insurance proceeds under the relevant policies or recovering a material portion of remediation costs in our rates, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. To the extent our incurred supply costs are deemed imprudent by the applicable state regulatory commissions, we would under recover our costs, which could adversely impact our results of operations and liquidity. Our wholesale costs for electricity and natural gas are recovered through various pass-through cost tracking mechanisms in each of the states we serve. The rates are established based upon projected market prices or contract obligations. As these variables change, we adjust our rates through our monthly trackers. To the extent our energy supply costs are deemed imprudent by the applicable state regulatory commissions, we would under recover our costs, which could adversely impact our results of operations. We do not own any natural gas reserves or regulated electric generation assets to service our Montana operations. As a result, we are required to procure our entire natural gas supply and substantially all of our Montana electricity supply pursuant to contracts with third-party suppliers. In light of this reliance on third-party suppliers, we are exposed to certain risks in the event a third-party supplier is unable to satisfy its contractual obligation. If this occurred, then we might be required to purchase gas and/or electricity supply requirements in the energy markets, which may not be on commercially 22 reasonable terms, if at all. If prices were higher in the energy markets, it could result in a temporary material under recovery that would reduce our liquidity. Our obligation to supply a minimum annual quantity of power to the Montana electric supply could expose us to material commodity price risk if certain QFs under contract with us do not perform during a time of high commodity prices, as we are required to supply any quantity deficiency. We perform management of the QF portfolio of resources under the terms and conditions of the QF Tier II Stipulation. This Stipulation may subject us to commodity price risk if the QF portfolio does not perform in a manner to meet the annual minimum energy requirement. As part of the Stipulation and Settlement with the MPSC and other parties in the Tier II Docket, we agreed to supply the electric supply with a certain minimum amount of power at an agreed upon price per MW. The annual minimum energy requirement is achievable under normal QF operations, including normal periods of planned and forced outages. Furthermore, we will not realize commodity price risk unless any required replacement energy cost is in excess of the total amount recovered under the QF contracts. However, to the extent the supplied QF power for any year does not reach the minimum quantity set forth in the settlement, we are obligated to secure the quantity deficiency from other sources. Since we own no material generation in Montana, the anticipated source for any quantity deficiency is the wholesale market which, in turn, would subject us to commodity price volatility. Our jointly owned regulated electric generating facilities and our joint ownership in Colstrip Unit 4 are subject to operational risks that could result in unscheduled plant outages, unanticipated operation and maintenance expenses and increased power purchase costs. Operation of electric generating facilities involves risks which can adversely affect energy output and efficiency levels. Most of our generating capacity is coal-fired. We rely on a limited number of suppliers of coal for our regulated generation, making us vulnerable to increased prices for fuel as existing contracts expire or in the event of unanticipated interruptions in fuel supply. We are a captive rail shipper of the Burlington Northern Santa Fe Railway for shipments of coal to the Big Stone I Plant (our largest source of generation in South Dakota), making us vulnerable to railroad capacity issues and/or increased prices for coal transportation from a sole supplier. Operational risks also include facility shutdowns due to breakdown or failure of equipment or processes, labor disputes, operator error and catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, floods, intentional acts of destruction or other similar occurrences affecting the electric generating facilities. The loss of a major regulated generating facility would require us to find other sources of supply, if available, and expose us to higher purchased power costs. We must meet certain credit quality standards. If we are unable to maintain an investment grade credit rating, we would be required under certain commodity purchase agreements to provide collateral in the form of letters of credit or cash, which may materially adversely affect our liquidity and /or access to capital. A downgrade of our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity, as counter parties could require us to post collateral. In addition, our ability to raise capital on favorable terms could be hindered, and our borrowing costs could increase. 23 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None ITEM 