ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risk factors described below, as well as all other information available to you, before making an investment in our common stock or other securities. Economic conditions and instability in the financial markets could negatively impact our business. Our operations are impacted by local, national and worldwide economic conditions. The consequences of a prolonged recession may include a lower level of economic activity and uncertainty regarding energy prices and the capital and commodity markets. A lower level of economic activity has resulted in a decline in energy consumption and a decrease in customers’ ability to pay their accounts, which may adversely affect our liquidity, results of operations and future growth. While our territories have been less impacted than other parts of the country, during 2009 we experienced declines in electric and natural gas usage per customer and lower electric transmission sales, due in part to the recession. In addition, demand for our Montana transmission capacity is impacted by market conditions in states to the South and West of our service territory, which have been more significantly impacted by the economic downturn. Access to the capital and credit markets, at a reasonable cost, is necessary for us to fund our operations, including capital requirements. We rely on a revolving credit facility for short-term liquidity needs due to the seasonality of our business, and on capital markets to raise capital for growth projects that are not otherwise provided by operating cash flows. Instability in the financial markets may increase the cost of capital, limit our ability to draw on our revolving credit facility and/or raise capital. If we are unable to obtain the liquidity needed to meet our business requirements on favorable terms, we may defer growth projects and/or capital expenditures. We are subject to extensive governmental laws and regulations that affect our industry and our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and results of operations. We are subject to regulation by federal and state governmental entities, including the FERC, MPSC, SDPUC and NPSC. Regulations can affect allowed rates of return, recovery of costs and operating requirements. For example, in our 2008 proceeding related to Colstrip Unit 4, the MPSC approved a 10% return on equity and 6.5% cost of debt for the expected 34-year life of the plant. In addition, existing regulations may be revised or reinterpreted, new laws, regulations, and interpretations thereof may be adopted or become applicable to us and future changes in laws and regulations may have a detrimental effect on our business. Our rates are approved by our respective commissions and are effective until new rates are approved. The outcome of our Montana electric and natural gas rate case filed in 2009 could have a significant impact on our liquidity and results of operations. The filing is based upon a 2008 test period, and we anticipate a final determination on the filing during the fourth quarter of 2010, which creates a delay between the timing of when such costs are incurred and when the costs are recovered from customers. This lag can adversely impact our cash flows. In addition, supply costs are recovered through adjustment charges that are periodically reset to reflect current and projected costs. Inability to recover costs in rates or adjustment clauses could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and results of operations. 23 We are also subject to the jurisdiction of FERC with regard to electric system reliability standards. We must comply with the standards and requirements established, which apply to the NERC functions for which we have registered in both the Midwest Reliability Organization for our South Dakota operations and the WECC for our Montana operations. To the extent we are deemed to not be compliant with these standards, we could be subject to fines or penalties. We are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations and potential environmental liabilities, which could result in significant costs and liabilities. We are subject to extensive laws and regulations imposed by federal, state, and local government authorities in the ordinary course of operations with regard to the environment, including environmental laws and regulations relating to air and water quality, solid waste disposal, and other environmental considerations. We believe that we are in compliance with environmental regulatory requirements and that maintaining compliance with current requirements will not materially affect our financial position or results of operations; however, possible future developments, including the promulgation of more stringent environmental laws and regulations, and the timing of future enforcement proceedings that may be taken by environmental authorities could affect the costs and the manner in which we conduct our business and could require us to make substantial additional capital expenditures. There is a growing concern nationally and internationally about global climate change and the contribution of emissions of greenhouse gases including, most significantly, carbon dioxide. This concern has led to increased interest in legislation at the federal level, actions at the state level, as well as litigation relating to greenhouse emissions, including a U.S. Supreme Court decision holding that the EPA relied on improper factors in deciding not to regulate carbon dioxide emissions from motor vehicles under the Clean Air Act and two federal courts of appeal have reinstated nuisance claims against emitters of carbon dioxide, including several utility companies, alleging that such emissions contribute to global warming. Increased pressure for carbon dioxide emissions reduction also is coming from investor organizations. If legislation or regulations are passed at the federal or state levels imposing mandatory reductions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases on generation facilities, the cost to us of such reductions could be significant. Many of these environmental laws and regulations create permit and license requirements and provide for substantial civil and criminal fines which, if imposed, could result in material costs or liabilities. We cannot predict with certainty the occurrence of private tort allegations or government claims for damages associated with specific environmental conditions. We may be required to make significant expenditures in connection with the investigation and remediation of alleged or actual spills, personal injury or property damage claims, and the repair, upgrade or expansion of our facilities to meet future requirements and obligations under environmental laws. To the extent that our environmental liabilities are greater than our reserves or we are unsuccessful in recovering anticipated insurance proceeds under the relevant policies or recovering a material portion of remediation costs in our rates, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. We are subject to physical and financial risks associated with climate change. Physical risks from climate change could include changes in weather conditions, such as an increase in changes in precipitation and extreme weather events. Our customers' energy needs vary with weather conditions, primarily temperature and humidity. For residential customers, heating and cooling represent their largest energy use. To the extent weather conditions are affected by climate change, our customers' energy use could increase or decrease depending on the duration and magnitude of the changes. Increased energy use due to weather changes may require us to invest in additional electric generation assets, transmission and other infrastructure to serve increased loads. Decreased energy use due to weather changes could result in decreased revenues. Extreme weather conditions in general increase the stress on our system. Weather conditions outside of our service territories could have an impact on our results of operations through impacts to the market prices for supply and transmission capacity. We purchase and sell electric and natural gas supply depending upon system needs and market opportunities. Extreme weather conditions creating high energy demand on our own and/or other systems may raise market prices as we buy short-term energy to serve our own system. Severe weather impacts our service territories, primarily through thunderstorms, tornadoes and snow or ice storms. To the extent the frequency of extreme weather events increase, this could increase our cost of providing service. Changes in precipitation resulting in droughts or water shortages could adversely affect our ability to provide electricity to customers, as well as increase the price they pay for energy. We may not recover all costs related to mitigating these physical and financial risks. 24 To the extent climate change impacts a region's economic health, it also may impact our revenues. Our financial performance is tied to the health of the regional economies we serve. The price of energy, as a factor in a region's cost of living as well as an important input into the cost of goods, has an impact on the economic health of our communities. The cost of additional regulatory requirements, such as a tax on greenhouse gases or additional environmental regulation, would normally be borne by consumers through higher prices for energy and purchased goods. To the extent financial markets view climate change and emissions of greenhouse gases as a financial risk, this could negatively affect our ability to access capital markets or cause us to receive less than ideal terms and conditions. To the extent our incurred supply costs are deemed imprudent by the applicable state regulatory commissions, we would under recover our costs, which could adversely impact our results of operations and liquidity. Our wholesale costs for electricity and natural gas are recovered through various pass-through cost tracking mechanisms in each of the states we serve. The rates are established based upon projected market prices or contract obligations. As these variables change, we adjust our rates through our monthly trackers. To the extent our energy supply costs are deemed imprudent by the applicable state regulatory commissions, we would under recover our costs, which could adversely impact our results of operations. We are required to procure our entire natural gas supply and a large portion of our Montana electric supply pursuant to contracts with third-party suppliers. In light of this reliance on third-party suppliers, we are exposed to certain risks in the event a third-party supplier is unable to satisfy its contractual obligation. If this occurred, then we might be required to purchase gas and/or electricity supply requirements in the energy markets, which may not be on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If prices were higher in the energy markets, it could result in a temporary material under recovery that would reduce our liquidity. Poor investment performance of plan assets of our defined benefit pension and post-retirement benefit plans, in addition to other factors impacting these costs, could unfavorably impact our results of operations and liquidity. Our costs for providing defined benefit retirement and postretirement benefit plans are dependent upon a number of factors, including rate of return on plan assets, discount rates, other actuarial assumptions, and government regulation. Due to the unprecedented volatility in equity markets, we experienced plan asset market gains during 2009 in excess of 20%, and plan asset market losses during 2008 in excess of 30%. Without sustained growth in the plan assets over time and depending upon the other factors noted above, the costs of such plans reflected in our results of operations and financial position and cash funding obligations may change significantly from projections. Our plans for future expansion through transmission grid expansion, the construction of power generation facilities and capital improvements to current assets involve substantial risks. Failure to adequately execute and manage significant construction plans, as well as the risk of recovering such costs, could materially impact our results of operations and liquidity. We have proposed capital investment projects in excess of $1 billion. The completion of these projects, which are primarily investments in electric transmission projects and electric generation projects, is subject to many construction and development risks, including, but not limited to, risks related to financing, regulatory recovery, obtaining and complying with terms of permits, escalating costs of materials and labor, meeting construction budgets and schedules, and environmental compliance. In addition, there are projects proposed by other parties that may result in direct competition to our proposed transmission expansion. 25 Our proposed capital investment projects are based on assumptions regarding future growth and resulting power demand that may not be realized. The timing and extent of the recovery of the economy, and its impact on demand cannot be predicted. Additionally, our customers may undertake further individual energy conservation measures, which could decrease the demand for electricity. We may increase our transmission and/or baseload capacity and have excess capacity if anticipated growth levels are not realized. The resulting excess capacity could exceed our obligation to serve retail customers or demand for transmission capacity and, as a result, may not be recoverable from customers. The construction of new generation and expansion of our transmission system will require a significant amount of capital expenditures. We cannot provide certainty that adequate external financing will be available to support these projects. Additionally, borrowings incurred to finance construction may adversely impact our leverage, which could increase our cost of capital. We may pursue joint ventures or similar arrangements with third parties in order to share some of the financing and operational risks associated with these projects, but we cannot be certain we will be able to successfully negotiate any such arrangement. Furthermore, joint ventures or joint ownership arrangements also present risks and uncertainties, including those associated with sharing control over the construction and operation of a facility and reliance on the other party’s financial or operational strength. We have filed for and received advanced approval from the MPSC to construct the Mill Creek Generating Station. The MPSC determined the cost of the gas turbines is prudent, with the remainder of the project costs to be submitted for review upon completion of construction. A portion of these future costs could potentially be deemed imprudent, which we would not be able to recover from customers. Should our efforts be unsuccessful, we could be subject to additional costs, termination payments under committed contracts, and/or the write-off of investments in these projects. As of December 31, 2009, we have capitalized approximately $84.7 million in construction work in progress associated with the Mill Creek Generating Station and $11.4 million in preliminary survey and investigative costs associated with transmission projects. Our obligation to include a minimum annual quantity of power in our Montana electric supply portfolio at an agreed upon price per MWh could expose us to material commodity price risk if certain QFs under contract with us do not perform during a time of high commodity prices, as we are required to supply any quantity deficiency. In addition, we are subject to price escalation risk with one of our largest QF contracts. As part of a previous stipulation with the MPSC and other parties, we agreed to include a minimum annual quantity of power in our Montana electric supply portfolio at an agreed upon price per MWh. The annual minimum energy requirement is achievable under normal QF operations, including normal periods of planned and forced outages. Furthermore, we will not realize commodity price risk unless any required replacement energy cost is in excess of the total amount recovered under the QF obligation. However, to the extent the supplied QF power for any year does not reach the minimum quantity set forth in the settlement, we are obligated to secure the quantity deficiency from other sources. The anticipated source for any quantity deficiency is the wholesale market which, in turn, would subject us to commodity price volatility. In addition, we are subject to price escalation risk with one of our largest QF contracts due to variable contract terms. In estimating our QF liability, we have estimated an annual escalation rate of 1.9% over the term of the contract (through June 2024). To the extent the annual escalation rate exceeds 1.9%, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. Our jointly owned electric generating facilities are subject to operational risks that could result in unscheduled plant outages, unanticipated operation and maintenance expenses and increased power purchase costs. Operation of electric generating facilities involves risks, which can adversely affect energy output and efficiency levels. Most of our generating capacity is coal-fired. We rely on a limited number of suppliers of coal for our regulated generation, making us vulnerable to increased prices for fuel as existing contracts expire or in the event of unanticipated interruptions in fuel supply. We are a captive rail shipper of the Burlington Northern Santa Fe Railway for shipments of coal to the Big Stone Plant (our largest source of generation in South Dakota), making us vulnerable to railroad capacity and operational issues and/or increased prices for coal transportation from a sole supplier. Operational risks also include facility shutdowns due to breakdown or failure of equipment or processes, labor disputes, operator error and catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, floods, and intentional acts of destruction or other similar occurrences affecting the electric generating facilities. The loss of a major regulated generating facility would require us to find other sources of supply, if available, and expose us to higher purchased power costs. 26 Seasonal and quarterly fluctuations of our business could adversely affect our results of operations and liquidity. Our electric and natural gas utility business is seasonal, and weather patterns can have a material impact on our financial performance. Demand for electricity and natural gas is often greater in the summer and winter months associated with cooling and heating. Because natural gas is heavily used for residential and commercial heating, the demand for this product depends heavily upon weather patterns throughout our market areas, and a significant amount of natural gas revenues are recognized in the first and fourth quarters related to the heating season. Accordingly, our operations have historically generated less revenues and income when weather conditions are milder in the winter and cooler in the summer. In the event that we experience unusually mild winters or cool summers in the future, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. In addition, exceptionally hot summer weather or unusually cold winter weather could add significantly to working capital needs to fund higher than normal supply purchases to meet customer demand for electricity and natural gas. We must meet certain credit quality standards. If we are unable to maintain investment grade credit ratings, our liquidity, access to capital and operations could be materially adversely affected. A downgrade of our credit ratings to less than investment grade could adversely affect our liquidity. Certain of our credit agreements and other credit arrangements with counterparties require us to provide collateral in the form of letters of credit or cash to support our obligations if we fall below investment grade. Also, a downgrade below investment grade could hinder our ability to raise capital on favorable terms and increase our borrowing costs. Our secured credit ratings are also tied to our ability to invest in unregulated ventures due to an existing stipulation with the MPSC and MCC, which establishes diminishing limits for such investment at certain credit rating levels. The stipulation does not limit investment in unregulated ventures so long as we maintain credit ratings on a secured basis of at least BBB+ (S&P) and Baa1 (Moody’s). For a further discussion of how a lack of liquidity and access to adequate capital could affect our operations, please see the Risk Factor above, “Economic conditions and instability in the financial markets could negatively impact our business.” ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 