ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSYou should carefully consider the risk factors described below, as well as all other information available to you, before making an investment in our common stock or other securities. We are subject to potential unfavorable government and regulatory outcomes, including extensive and changing lawsand regulations that affect our industry and our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and results of operations. Our profitability is dependent on our ability to recover the costs of providing energy and utility services to our customers and earn a return on our capital investment in our utility operations. We provide service at rates established by several regulatory commissions. These rates are generally set based on an analysis of our costs incurred in a historical test year. In addition, each regulatory commission sets rates based in part upon their acceptance of an allocated share of total utility costs. When commissions adopt different methods to calculate inter-jurisdictional cost allocations, some costs may not be recovered. Thus, the rates we are allowed to charge may or may not match our costs at any given time. While rate regulation is premised on providing a reasonable opportunity to earn a reasonable rate of return on invested capital, there can be no assurance that the applicable regulatory commission will judge all of our costs to have been prudently incurred or that the regulatory process in which rates are determined will always result in rates that will produce full recovery of such costs. For example, in our regulatory filings related to DGGS, we proposed an allocation of approximately 80% of costs to retail customers subject to the MPSC's jurisdiction and approximately 20% allocated to wholesale customers subject to FERC's jurisdiction. In March 2012, the MPSC's final order approved using our proposed cost allocation methodology, but requires us to complete a study of the relative contribution of retail and wholesale customers to regulation capacity needs. The results of this study may be used in determining future cost allocations between retail and wholesale customers. However, there is no assurance that both the MPSC and FERC will agree on the results of this study, which could result in an inability to fully recover our costs.In September 2012, we received a non-binding decision from a FERC Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) concluding that we should only recover approximately 4.4% of the revenue requirement from FERC jurisdictional customers. Although we are asking the FERC to reject this decision, there is significant uncertainty related to the FERC's ultimate treatment of our cost allocation methodology, which could result in an inability to fully recover our costs.In October 2013, the MPSC concluded that $1.4 million of incremental costs associated with regulation service acquired from third parties during a 2012 outage at DGGS were imprudently incurred, and disallowed recovery. We have appealed that decision to the Montana district court. While we believe this to be an isolated incident associated with specific circumstances at DGGS, the MPSC may use this determination as precedent for disallowing replacement costs in the future. We are subject to many FERC rules and orders that regulate our electric and natural gas business. We must also comply with established reliability standards and requirements, which apply to the NERC functions for which we have registered in both the MRO for our South Dakota operations and the WECC for our Montana operations. The FERC, NERC, or a regional reliability organization may assess penalties against any responsible entity that violates their rules, regulations or standards. Violations may be discovered through various means, including self-certification, self-reporting, compliance investigations, periodic data submissions, exception reporting, and complaints. Penalties for the most severe violations can reach as high as $1 million per violation, per day. If a serious reliability incident or other incidence of noncompliance did occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating and financial results. We are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations and potential environmental liabilities, which could result in significant costs and additional liabilities. We are subject to extensive laws and regulations imposed by federal, state, and local government authorities in the ordinary course of operations with regard to the environment, including environmental laws and regulations relating to air and water quality, protection of natural resources, migratory birds and other wildlife, solid waste disposal, coal ash and other environmental considerations. We believe that we are in compliance with environmental regulatory requirements; however, possible future developments, such as more stringent environmental laws and regulations, and the timing of future enforcement proceedings that may be taken by environmental authorities, could affect our costs and the manner in which we conduct our business and could require us to make substantial additional capital expenditures or abandon certain projects. 16National and international actions have been initiated to address global climate change and the contribution of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions including, most significantly, carbon dioxide. These actions include legislative proposals, executive and EPA actions at the federal level, actions at the state level, and private party litigation relating to GHG emissions. In June 2013, President Obama announced that he would use Executive Powers to require reductions in the amount of carbon dioxide emitted by the nation's power plants. Under the President's plan, it is possible that existing power plants may be required to comply with GHG emission performance standards as soon as July, 2016. If legislation or regulations are passed at the federal or state levels imposing mandatory reductions of carbon dioxide and other GHGs on generation facilities, the cost to us of such reductions could be significant. Many of these environmental laws and regulations provide for substantial civil and criminal fines for noncompliance which, if imposed, could result in material costs or liabilities. In addition, there is a risk of environmental damages claims from private parties or government entities. We may be required to make significant expenditures in connection with the investigation and remediation of alleged or actual spills, personal injury or property damage claims, and the repair, upgrade or expansion of our facilities to meet future requirements and obligations under environmental laws. To the extent that costs exceed our estimated environmental liabilities and/or we are not successful recovering a material portion of remediation costs in our rates, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected.Our plans for future expansion through the acquisition of assets including hydro-electric generating facilities and natural gas reserves, capital improvements to current assets, generation investments, and transmission grid expansion involve substantial risks. Acquisitions include a number of risks, including but not limited to, additional costs, the assumption of material liabilities, the diversion of management’s attention from daily operations to the integration of the acquisition, difficulties in assimilation and retention of employees, securing adequate capital to support the transaction, and regulatory approval. Uncertainties exist in assessing the value, risks, profitability, and liabilities associated with certain businesses or assets and there is a possibility that anticipated operating and financial synergies expected to result from an acquisition do not develop. The failure to complete an acquisition successfully, or to integrate future acquisitions that we may choose to undertake could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.In order to complete the Hydro Transaction, we must obtain certain approvals from the MPSC and other state and federal agencies. These regulatory agencies may not approve the transaction, or may approve the transaction subject to terms or conditions that could delay closing, impose additional costs, impact the transaction's anticipated benefits, or cause the transaction to terminate. In addition, failure to obtain approvals on terms consistent with our application could negatively affect credit ratings and equity valuation, and our ability to invest in our Montana utility operations, including but not limited to supply.In connection with the Hydro Transaction, we entered into a $900 million 364-day senior bridge credit facility (bridge facility), which may be used to temporarily finance a significant portion of the acquisition and pay related fees and expenses in the event that permanent financing is not in place at the time of the closing of the transaction. The permanent financing is anticipated to include a mix of long-term debt and common equity. Although we believe we have taken prudent steps to position ourselves for successful capital raises, there can be no assurance as to the ultimate cost or availability of permanent financing. Our business strategy also includes significant investment in capital improvements and additions to modernize existing infrastructure, generation investments and transmission capacity expansion. The completion of generation and natural gas investments and transmission projects are subject to many construction and development risks, including, but not limited to, risks related to permitting, financing, regulatory recovery, escalating costs of materials and labor, meeting construction budgets and schedules, and environmental compliance. In addition, these capital projects may require a significant amount of capital expenditures. We cannot provide certainty that adequate external financing will be available to support such projects. Additionally, borrowings incurred to finance construction may adversely impact our leverage, which could increase our cost of capital. Our owned and jointly owned electric generating facilities are subject to operational risks that could result in unscheduled plant outages, unanticipated operation and maintenance expenses and increased power purchase costs. Operation of electric generating facilities involves risks, which can adversely affect energy output and efficiency levels. Operational risks include facility shutdowns due to breakdown or failure of equipment or processes, labor disputes, operator error, catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, floods, and intentional acts of destruction or other similar occurrences 17affecting the electric generating facilities; and operational changes necessitated by environmental legislation, litigation or regulation. The loss of a major electric generating facility would require us to find other sources of supply or ancillary services, if available, and expose us to higher purchased power costs.For example, in early July 2013, following the return to service from a scheduled maintenance outage, Colstrip Unit 4 tripped off-line and incurred damage to its stator and rotor. Colstrip Unit 4 returned to service in early 2014. There is no assurance that we will be able to fully recover our costs for the purchase of replacement power while Colstrip Unit 4 was out of service. In addition, most of our generating capacity is coal-fired. We rely on a limited number of suppliers of coal for our electric generation, making us vulnerable to increased prices for fuel as existing contracts expire or in the event of unanticipated interruptions in fuel supply. We are a captive rail shipper of the Burlington Northern Santa Fe Railway for shipments of coal to the Big Stone Plant (our largest source of generation in South Dakota), making us vulnerable to railroad capacity and operational issues and/or increased prices for coal transportation from a sole supplier. Our revenues, results of operations and financial condition are impacted by customer growth and usage in our service territories and may fluctuate with current economic conditions or response to price increases. We are also impacted by market conditions outside of our service territories related to demand for transmission capacity and wholesale electric pricing. Our revenues, results of operations and financial condition are impacted by customer growth and usage, which can be impacted by population growth as well as by economic factors. Our customers may voluntarily reduce their consumption of electricity and natural gas from us in response to increases in prices, decreases in their disposable income, individual energy conservation efforts or the use of distributed generation for electricity. Demand for our Montana transmission capacity fluctuates with regional demand, fuel prices and weather related conditions. The levels of wholesale sales depend on the wholesale market price, transmission availability and the availability of generation for wholesale sales, among other factors. Declines in wholesale market price, availability of generation, transmission constraints in the wholesale markets, or low wholesale demand could reduce wholesale sales. These events could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We implemented a new customer information system, and we may experience additional difficulties, delays and interruptions associated with the transition to this new system. Any unexpected significant difficulties in completing the transition could negatively impact our business.During September 2013, we implemented a new customer information system. There are inherent risks associated with replacing and changing these types of systems, such as delayed and / or inaccurate customer bills, potential disruption of our business, and substantial unplanned costs, any of which could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Consistent with our expectations, we have experienced billing delays, which resulted in delays in collections of customer receivables and increased bad debt expense during the transition to this new system. Any additional unexpected significant difficulties in completing the transition of our customer information system could materially impact our ability to timely and accurately record, process and report information that is important to our business. Our natural gas distribution services involve numerous activities that may result in accidents and other operating risks and costs. Inherent in our natural gas distribution services are a variety of hazards and operating risks, such as leaks, explosions and mechanical problems. These risks could cause a loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of our operations, and substantial financial losses to us. In accordance with customary industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses. The occurrence of any of these events not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. For our distribution lines located near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, industrial sites and other public gathering areas, the level of damages resulting from these risks potentially is greater. 18To the extent our incurred supply costs are deemed imprudent by the applicable state regulatory commissions, we would not recover some of our costs, which could adversely impact our results of operations and liquidity. Our wholesale costs for electricity and natural gas are recovered through various pass-through cost tracking mechanisms in each of the states we serve. The rates are established based upon projected market prices or contractual obligations. As these variables change, we adjust our rates through our monthly trackers. To the extent our energy supply costs are deemed imprudent by the applicable state regulatory commissions, we would not recover some of our costs, which could adversely impact our results of operations. We currently procure a large portion of our natural gas supply and our Montana electric supply pursuant to contracts with third-party suppliers. In light of this reliance on third-party suppliers, we are exposed to certain risks in the event a third-party supplier is unable to satisfy its contractual obligation. If this occurred, then we might be required to purchase gas and/or electricity supply requirements in the energy markets, which may not be on favorable terms, if at all. If prices were higher in the energy markets, it could result in a temporary material under recovery that would reduce our liquidity. Poor investment performance of plan assets of our defined benefit pension and post-retirement benefit plans, in addition to other factors impacting these costs, could unfavorably impact our results of operations and liquidity. Our costs for providing defined benefit retirement and postretirement benefit plans are dependent upon a number of factors. Assumptions related to future costs, return on investments and interest rates have a significant impact on our funding requirements related to these plans. These estimates and assumptions may change based on economic conditions, actual stock market performance and changes in governmental regulations. Without sustained growth in the plan assets over time and depending upon interest rate changes as well as other factors noted above, the costs of such plans reflected in our results of operations and financial position and cash funding obligations may change significantly from projections. Our obligation to include a minimum annual quantity of power in our Montana electric supply portfolio at an agreed upon price per MWH could expose us to material commodity price risk if certain QFs under contract with us do not perform during a time of high commodity prices, as we are required to make up the difference. In addition, we are subject to price escalation risk with one of our largest QF contracts. As part of a stipulation in 2002 with the MPSC and other parties, we agreed to include a minimum annual quantity of power in our Montana electric supply portfolio at an agreed upon price per MWH through June 2029. The annual minimum energy requirement is achievable under normal QF operations, including normal periods of planned and forced outages. However, to the extent the supplied QF power for any year does not reach the minimum quantity set forth in the settlement, we are obligated to purchase the difference from other sources. The anticipated source for any QF shortfall is the wholesale market, which would subject us to commodity price risk if the cost of replacement power is higher than contracted QF rates. In addition, we are subject to price escalation risk with one of our largest QF contracts due to variable contract terms. In estimating our QF liability, we have estimated an annual escalation rate of 3% over the remaining term of the contract (through June 2024). To the extent the annual escalation rate exceeds 3%, our results of operations, cash flows and financial position could be adversely affected. Weather and weather patterns, including normal seasonal and quarterly fluctuations of weather, as well as extreme weather events that might be associated with climate change, could adversely affect our results of operations and liquidity. Our electric and natural gas utility business is seasonal, and weather patterns can have a material impact on our financial performance. Demand for electricity and natural gas is often greater in the summer and winter months associated with cooling and heating. Because natural gas is heavily used for residential and commercial heating, the demand for this product depends heavily upon weather patterns throughout our market areas, and a significant amount of natural gas revenues are recognized in the first and fourth quarters related to the heating season. Accordingly, our operations have historically generated less revenue and income when weather conditions are milder in the winter and cooler in the summer. In the event that we experience unusually mild winters or cool summers in the future, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. In addition, exceptionally hot summer weather or unusually cold winter weather could add significantly to working capital needs to fund higher than normal supply purchases to meet customer demand for electricity and natural gas. There is also a concern that the physical risks of climate change could include changes in weather conditions, such as an increase in changes in precipitation and extreme weather events. Climate change and the costs that may be associated with its impacts have the potential to affect our business in many ways, including increasing the cost incurred in providing electricity 19and natural gas, impacting the demand for and consumption of electricity and natural gas (due to change in both costs and weather patterns), and affecting the economic health of the regions in which we operate. Extreme weather conditions creating high energy demand on our own and/or other systems may raise market prices as we buy short-term energy to serve our own system. Severe weather impacts our service territories, primarily through thunderstorms, tornadoes and snow or ice storms. To the extent the frequency of extreme weather events increase, this could increase our cost of providing service. Changes in precipitation resulting in droughts or water shortages could adversely affect our ability to provide electricity to customers, as well as increase the price they pay for energy. In addition, extreme weather may exacerbate the risks to physical infrastructure. We may not recover all costs related to mitigating these physical and financial risks. Our business is dependent on our ability to successfully access capital markets on favorable terms. Limits on our access to capital may adversely impact our ability to execute our business plan or pursue improvements that we would otherwise rely on for future growth. Our cash requirements are driven by the capital-intensive nature of our business. Access to the capital and credit markets, at a reasonable cost, is necessary for us to fund our operations, including capital requirements. We rely on a revolving credit facility and commercial paper market for short-term liquidity needs due to the seasonality of our business, and on capital markets to raise capital for growth projects that are not otherwise provided by operating cash flows. Instability in the financial markets may increase the cost of capital, limit our ability to draw on our revolving credit facility, access the commercial paper market and/or raise capital. If we are unable to obtain the liquidity needed to meet our business requirements on favorable terms, we may defer growth projects and/or capital expenditures. We must meet certain credit quality standards. If we are unable to maintain investment grade credit ratings, our liquidity, access to capital and operations could be materially adversely affected. A downgrade of our credit ratings to less than investment grade could adversely affect our liquidity. Certain of our credit agreements and other credit arrangements with counterparties require us to provide collateral in the form of letters of credit or cash to support our obligations if we fall below investment grade. Also, a downgrade below investment grade could hinder our ability to raise capital on favorable terms, including through the commercial paper markets. Higher interest rates on short-term borrowings with variable interest rates or on incremental commercial paper issuances could also have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Threats of terrorism and catastrophic events that could result from terrorism, cyber attacks, or individuals and/or groups attempting to disrupt our business, or the businesses of third parties, may affect our operationsin unpredictable ways and could adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations.We are subject to the potentially adverse operating and financial effects of terrorist acts and threats, as well as cyber attacks and other disruptive activities of individuals or groups. Our generation, transmission and distribution facilities, information technology systems and other infrastructure facilities and systems could be direct targets of, or indirectly affected by, such activities. Any significant interruption of these systems could prevent us from fulfilling our critical business functions, and sensitive, confidential and other data could be compromised.Terrorist acts, cyber attacks (such as hacking and viruses) or other similar events could harm our business by limiting our ability to generate, purchase or transmit power and by delaying the development and construction of new generating facilities and capital improvements to existing facilities. These events, and governmental actions in response, could result in a material decrease in revenues and significant additional costs to repair and insure assets, and could adversely affect our operations by contributing to the disruption of supplies and markets for natural gas, oil and other fuels. These events could also impair our ability to raise capital by contributing to financial instability and reduced economic activity. 20ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone