ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. - ---------------------- We make forward-looking statements in this report, other public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and through oral discussions which senior management has with analysts, investors, the media and others. Generally, forward-looking statements may include statements on; projections of revenues, net income, earnings per share, cash flows and other financial data. Additionally, we may make forward-looking statements relating to business objectives of management and evaluations of the market we serve. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results or objectives to differ materially from those projected. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Some of the risk factors, which are beyond our control, that could cause results to differ significantly from our projections are described below. We have one client, a nursing home chain, which due to its significant contribution to our total revenues, we consider a major client. Beverly Enterprises, Inc, our major client accounted for 19% of our 2005 total consolidated revenues, consisting of 18% and 27% of our Housekeeping segment and Food segment revenues, respectively. At December 31, 2005, amounts due from such client represented less than 1% of our accounts receivable balance. According to public filings, the client's Board of Directors has entered into a merger agreement on August 16, 2005 and the transaction is expected to close in the first quarter of 2006. Although we expect to continue the relationship with this client's successor, there can be no assurance thereof, and the loss of such client's business would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations. Additionally, if such client's successor changes their payment terms, it would increase our accounts receivable balance and have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and cash and cash equivalents. Our clients are concentrated in the health care industry. We provide our services primarily to providers of long-term care. The Balance Budget Act of 1997 changed Medicare policy in a number of ways, most notably the phasing in, effective July 1, 1998 of a Medicare Prospective Payment System for skilled nursing facilities which significantly changed the manner and the amounts of reimbursement they receive. Many of our clients' revenues are highly contingent on Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement funding rates. Therefore, they have been and continue to be adversely affected by changes in applicable laws and regulations, as well as other trends in the long-term care industry. This has resulted in certain of our clients filing for bankruptcy protection. Others may follow. These factors, in addition to delays in payments from clients have resulted in, and could continue to result in, significant additional bad debts in the near future. 9 We have a Paid Loss Retrospective Insurance Plan for general liability and workers' compensation insurance. Under our insurance plans for general liability and workers' compensation, predetermined loss limits are arranged with our insurance company to limit both our per occurrence cash outlay and annual insurance plan cost. We regularly evaluate our claims pay-out experience, present value factor and other factors related to the nature of specific claims in arriving at the basis for our accrued insurance claims estimate. Our evaluation is based primarily on current information derived from reviewing our claims experience and industry trends. In the event that our claims experience and/or industry trends result in an unfavorable change, it would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We provide services in 45 states and are subject to numerous local taxing jurisdictions within those states. The taxability of our services is subject to various interpretations within the taxing jurisdictions of our markets. Consequently, in the ordinary course of business, a jurisdiction may contest our reporting positions with respect to the application of its tax code to our services. A jurisdiction's conflicting position on the taxability of our services could result in additional tax liabilities which we may not be able to pass on to our clients or could negatively impact our competitive position in the respective location. We primarily provide our services pursuant to agreements which have a one year term, cancelable by either party upon 30 to 90 days' notice after the initial 90-day service agreement period. We do not enter into long-term contractual agreements with our clients for the rendering or our services. Consequently, our clients have the ability to unilaterally decrease the amount of services we provide or terminate all services pursuant to the terms of our service agreements. Any loss of clients during the first year of providing services, for which we have incurred significant start-up costs or invested in an equipment installation, could in the aggregate materially adversely affect our consolidated results of operations and financial position. We are dependent on the management experience of our key personnel. We manage and provide our services through a network of management personnel, from the on-site facility manager up to the executive officers of the company. Therefore, we believe that our ability to recruit and sustain the internal development of managerial personnel is an important factor impacting future operating results and our ability to successfully execute projected growth strategies. Our professional management personnel are the key personnel in maintaining and selling additional services to current clients and obtaining new clients. We may in general be adversely affected by inflationary or market fluctuations in the cost of products consumed in providing our services or our cost of labor. The prices we pay for the principal items we consume in performing our services are dependent primarily on current market price. Additionally, our cost of labor may be influenced by unanticipated factors in certain market areas or increases in collective bargaining agreements of our clients, to which we ascend. Although we endeavor to pass on, as price increases, to our clients such increased costs, any inability or delay in passing on such increases in costs could negatively impact our profitability. 10 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. - ----------------------------------- Not applicable. 