Item 1A. Risk Factors. We make forward-looking statements, within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, in this report and documents incorporated by reference into this report, other public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and in our press releases. Such forward-looking statements are not historical facts but rather are based on current expectations, estimates and projections about our business and industry, our beliefs and assumptions. Generally they may include statements on: projections of revenues, net income, earnings per share, cash flows and other financial data. Additionally, we may make forward-looking statements relating to business objectives of management and evaluations of the market we serve. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results or objectives to differ materially from those projected. The inclusion of forward-looking statements should not be regarded as a representation by us that any of our plans will be achieved. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. We have described below what we believe are our most significant risk factors, which may be beyond our control and could cause results to differ significantly from our projections. 8 Table of Contents We have one client, a nursing home chain, which due to its significant contribution to our total revenues, we consider a Major Client. Our Major Client accounted for 11% of our 2010 total consolidated revenues, consisting of 11% and 9% of our Housekeeping and Dietary revenues, respectively. At December 31, 2010, amounts due from such client represented less than 1% of our accounts receivable balance. Although we expect to continue the relationship with this client, there can be no assurance thereof. The loss of such client, or a significant reduction in the revenues we receive from such client, would have a material adverse effect on the results of operations of our two operating segments. In addition, if such client changes its payment terms it would increase our accounts receivable balance and have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and cash and cash equivalents. Although we expect our acquisition of Contract Environmental Services, Inc. will result in benefits to our Company, those benefits may not occur, or may be delayed, because of integration and other challenges associated with the acquisition. On May 1, 2009, we acquired essentially all of the assets of Contract Environmental Services, Inc. (“CES”), a South Carolina based corporation which is a provider of professional housekeeping, laundry and dietary department services to long-term care and related facilities. Achieving the benefits we expect from the acquisition of CES depends in part on our ability to integrate CES and our operations and personnel in a timely and efficient manner. Although this integration has largely occurred, there remain aspects of the integration, known and unknown, which will take time to fully accomplish. Such integration challenges include, but are not limited to: • potential loss of key employees and management; • integration of acquired personnel into our culture and philosophies; • diversion of management focus and attention; • assumption of liabilities and potentially unknown liabilities including past failures to comply with healthcare or other authorities’ regulations; • potential loss of clients acquired through the acquisition if there were changes in management of CES or if our operations do not meet the financial or service expectations of such clients. Our clients are concentrated in the health care industry which is currently undergoing considerable legislative proposals to reform it. We provide our services primarily to providers of long-term care. In March 2010, the U.S. Congress enacted the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, and is considering legislation to reform healthcare in the United States which could significantly impact our clients. We cannot predict what efforts, and to what extent, such legislation and proposals to contain healthcare costs will ultimately impact our clients’ revenues through government reimbursements. Congress has enacted a number of major laws during the past decade that have significantly altered, or may alter, overall government reimbursement for nursing home services. Because our clients’ revenues are generally highly reliant on Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement funding rates and mechanisms, the overall effect of these laws and trends in the long term care industry have affected and could adversely affect the liquidity of our clients, resulting in their inability to make payments to us on agreed upon payment terms. These factors, in addition to delays in payments from clients have resulted in, and could continue to result in, significant additional bad debts in the future. 9 Table of Contents Federal health care reform legislation’s eventual impact, including requiring most individuals to have health insurance and establish new regulation on health plans, may adversely affect our business and results of operations. The Act includes a large number of health-related provisions that become effective over the next four years, including requiring most individuals to have health insurance and establishing new regulations on health plans. While much of the cost of the recent healthcare legislation enacted will occur on or after 2014 due to provisions of the legislation being phased in over time, changes to our healthcare cost structure could have an impact on our business and operating costs. Providing such additional health insurance benefits to our employees or the payment of penalties if such coverage is not provided, would increase our expense. If we are unable to pass-through these charges to our clients to cover this expense, such increases in expense could adversely impact our business and operating costs. We have clients located in many states which have had and may continue to experience significant budget deficits and such deficits may result in reduction of reimbursements to nursing homes. Many states, in which our clients are located, have significant budget deficits as a result of lower than projected revenue collections and increased demand for the funding of entitlements. As a result of these and other adverse economic factors, state Medicaid programs are reconsidering previously approved increases in nursing home reimbursement or are considering delaying those increases. Some states have over the past year indicated it is possible they may be unable to make entitlement payments, including Medicaid payments to nursing homes. Any disruption or delay in the distribution of Medicaid and related payments to our clients will adversely affect their liquidity and impact their ability to pay us as agreed upon for the services provided. The Company has substantial investment in the credit worthiness and financial condition of our customers. The largest current asset on the Company’s balance sheet on a net basis is our accounts and notes receivable balances from our customers. We grant credit to substantially all of our customers. A decline in financial condition across a significant component of our customer base could hinder our ability to collect amounts from our customers. The potential causes of such decline include national or local economic downturns, customers’ dependence on continued Medicare and Medicaid funding and the impact of additional regulatory actions. When contractual terms are not met, we generally encounter difficulty in collecting amounts due from certain of our clients. Therefore, we have sometimes been required to extend the period of payment for certain clients beyond contractual terms. These clients include those who have terminated service agreements and slow payers experiencing financial difficulties. In making our credit evaluations, in addition to analyzing and anticipating, where possible, the specific cases described above, we consider the general collection risk associated with trends in the long-term care industry. We also establish credit limits, perform ongoing credit evaluation and monitor accounts to minimize the risk of loss. Notwithstanding our efforts to minimize credit risk exposure, our clients could be adversely affected if future industry trends change in such a manner as to negatively impact their cash flows. If our clients experience a negative impact in their cash flows, it would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We have a Paid Loss Retrospective Insurance Plan for general liability and workers’ compensation insurance. Under our insurance plans for general liability and workers’ compensation, predetermined loss limits are arranged with our insurance company to limit both our per occurrence cash outlay and annual insurance plan cost. We 10 Table of Contents regularly evaluate our claims pay-out experience, present value factor and other factors related to the nature of specific claims in arriving at the basis for our accrued insurance claims estimate. Our evaluation is based primarily on current information derived from reviewing our claims experience and industry trends. In the event that our claims experience and/or industry trends result in an unfavorable change, it would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We provide services in 47 states and are subject to numerous local taxing jurisdictions within those states. The taxability of our services is subject to various interpretations within the taxing jurisdictions of our markets. Consequently, in the ordinary course of business, a jurisdiction may contest our reporting positions with respect to the application of its tax code to our services. A jurisdiction’s conflicting position on the taxability of our services could result in additional tax liabilities which we may not be able to pass on to our clients or could negatively impact our competitive position in the respective location. Additionally, if we or one of our employees fail to comply with applicable tax laws and regulations we could suffer civil or criminal penalties in addition to the delinquent tax assessment. In the taxing jurisdictions where our services have been determined to be subject to tax, the jurisdiction may increase the tax rate assessed on such services. We endeavor to pass-through to our clients such tax increases. In the event we are not able to pass-through any portion of the tax increase, it may have an adverse impact on our gross margin. Our business and financial results could be adversely affected by unfavorable results of material litigation or governmental inquiries. We may from time to time become the subject in the ordinary course of business to material legal action related to, among other things, general liability, payroll or employee-related matters, as well as inquiries from governmental agencies. Legal actions could result in substantial monetary damages as well as adversely affect our reputation and business status with our clients. As a result of the risks and consequences of legal actions, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. We primarily provide our services pursuant to agreements which have a one year term, cancelable by either party upon 30 to 90 days’ notice after the initial 90-day service agreement period. We do not enter into long-term contractual agreements with our clients for the rendering of our services. Consequently, our clients can unilaterally decrease the amount of services we provide or terminate all services pursuant to the terms of our service agreements. Any loss of a significant number of clients during the first year of providing services, for which we have incurred significant start-up costs or invested in an equipment installation, could in the aggregate materially adversely affect our consolidated results of operations and financial position. We are dependent on the management experience of our key personnel. We manage and provide our services through a network of management personnel, from the on-site facility manager up to the executive officers of our Company. Therefore, we believe that our ability to recruit and sustain the internal development of managerial personnel is an important factor impacting future operating results and our ability to successfully execute projected growth strategies. Our professional management personnel are the key personnel in maintaining and selling additional services to current clients and obtaining new clients. 11 Table of Contents We may be adversely affected by inflationary or market fluctuations in the cost of products consumed in providing our services or our cost of labor. Additionally, we rely on certain vendors for certain housekeeping, laundry and dietary supplies. The prices we pay for the principal items we consume in performing our services are dependent primarily on current market prices. Additionally, our cost of labor may be influenced by unanticipated factors in certain market areas or increases in collective bargaining agreements of our clients, to which we assent. We have consolidated certain supply purchases with national vendors through agreements containing negotiated prospective pricing. In the event such vendors are not able to comply with their obligations under the agreements and we are required to seek alternative suppliers, we may incur increased costs of supplies. Additionally we may experience increased pricing upon the renegotiation of our contracted agreements. Although we endeavor to pass on such increased costs to our clients, any inability or delay in passing on such increases in costs could negatively impact our profitability. Our investments represent a significant amount of our assets that may be subject to fluctuating and even negative returns depending upon interest rate movements and financial market conditions. Although management believes we have a prudent investment policy, we are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates and in the market values of our investment portfolio which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our marketable securities are primarily invested in municipal bonds. We believe that our investment criteria which includes reducing our exposure to individual states, requiring certain credit ratings and limiting our investments’ duration period, reduces our exposure related to the financial duress and budget shortfalls that many state and local governments currently face. Market expectations are high and rely greatly on execution of our growth strategy and related increases in financial performance. Management believes the historical price increases of our Common Stock reflect high market expectations for our future operating results. In particular, our ability to attract new clients, through organic growth or acquisitions, has enabled us to execute our growth strategy and increase market share. If, in the event we are not able to continue historical client and revenue growth rates, our operating performance may be adversely affected and the high expectations for our market performance may not be met. Any failure to meet the market’s high expectations for our revenue and operating results may have an adverse effect on the market price of our Common Stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 