Item 1A. Risk Factors. We make forward-looking statements, within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, in this report and documents incorporated by reference into this report, other public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and in our press releases. Such forward-looking statements are not historical facts but rather are based on current expectations, estimates and projections about our business and industry, our beliefs and assumptions. Generally they may include statements on; projections of revenues, net income, earnings per share, cash flows and other financial data. Additionally, we may make forward-looking statements relating to business objectives of management and evaluations of the market we serve. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results or objectives to differ materially from those projected. The inclusion of forward-looking statements should not be regarded as a representation by us that any of our plans will be achieved. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. We have described below what we believe are our most significant risk factors, which may be beyond our control and could cause results to differ significantly from our projections. We have one client, a nursing home chain, which due to its significant contribution to our total revenues, we consider a major client. Golden Horizons, our major client accounted for 18% of our 2006 total consolidated revenues, consisting of 16% and 26% of our Housekeeping and Food revenues, respectively. At December 31, 2006, amounts due from such client represented less than 1% of our accounts receivable balance. This client completed its previously announced merger on March 14, 2006. Our relationship with the successor entity remains under the same terms and conditions as existed prior to the merger. Although we expect to continue the relationship with this client, there can be no assurance thereof. The loss of such client, or a significant reduction in the revenues we receive from such client, would have a material adverse effect on the results of operations of our two operating segments. In addition, if such client changes its payment terms it would increase our accounts receivable balance and have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and cash and cash equivalents. Although we expect that the acquisition of Summit will result in benefits to our company, those benefits may not occur, or may be delayed, because of integration and other challenges associated with the acquisition. On September 18, 2006, effective as of August 31, 2006, we acquired Summit. Achieving the benefits we expect from the acquisition of Summit depends in part on our ability to integrate Summit’s and our operations and personnel in a timely and efficient manner. Although much of this integration has already occurred, there remain aspects of the integration, known and unknown, which will take time to fully accomplish. Such integration challenges include, but are not limited to: • potential loss of key employees and management. • integration of acquired personnel into our culture and philosophies. • diversion of management focus and attention. • assumption of liabilities and potentially unknown liabilities including past failures to comply with healthcare or other authorities’ regulations. • potential loss of clients acquired through the acquisition due to changes in management of Summit or if our operations do not meet the financial or service expectations of such clients. Our clients are concentrated in the health care industry. We provide our services primarily to providers of long-term care. Congress has enacted a number of major laws during the past decade that have significantly altered, or may alter, overall government reimbursement for nursing home services. Because our clients’ revenues are generally highly reliant on Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement funding rates and mechanisms, the overall effect of these laws and trends in the long term care industry have affected and could adversely affect the liquidity of our clients, resulting in their inability to 8 Table of Contents make payments to us on agreed upon payment terms. These factors, in addition to delays in payments from clients have resulted in, and could continue to result in, significant additional bad debts in the future. We have a Paid Loss Retrospective Insurance Plan for general liability and workers’ compensation insurance. Under our insurance plans for general liability and workers’ compensation, predetermined loss limits are arranged with our insurance company to limit both our per occurrence cash outlay and annual insurance plan cost. We regularly evaluate our claims pay-out experience, present value factor and other factors related to the nature of specific claims in arriving at the basis for our accrued insurance claims estimate. Our evaluation is based primarily on current information derived from reviewing our claims experience and industry trends. In the event that our claims experience and/or industry trends result in an unfavorable change, it would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We provide services in 47 states and are subject to numerous local taxing jurisdictions within those states. The taxability of our services is subject to various interpretations within the taxing jurisdictions of our markets. Consequently, in the ordinary course of business, a jurisdiction may contest our reporting positions with respect to the application of its tax code to our services. A jurisdiction’s conflicting position on the taxability of our services could result in additional tax liabilities which we may not be able to pass on to our clients or could negatively impact our competitive position in the respective location. Additionally, if we or one of our employees fail to comply with applicable tax laws and regulations we could suffer civil or criminal penalties in addition to the delinquent tax assessment. We primarily provide our services pursuant to agreements which have a one year term, cancelable by either party upon 30 to 90 days’ notice after the initial 90-day service agreement period. We do not enter into long-term contractual agreements with our clients for the rendering of our services. Consequently, our clients can unilaterally decrease the amount of services we provide or terminate all services pursuant to the terms of our service agreements. Any loss of a significant number of clients during the first year of providing services, for which we have incurred significant start-up costs or invested in an equipment installation, could in the aggregate materially adversely affect our consolidated results of operations and financial position. We are dependent on the management experience of our key personnel. We manage and provide our services through a network of management personnel, from the on-site facility manager up to the executive officers of the company. Therefore, we believe that our ability to recruit and sustain the internal development of managerial personnel is an important factor impacting future operating results and our ability to successfully execute projected growth strategies. Our professional management personnel are the key personnel in maintaining and selling additional services to current clients and obtaining new clients. We may in general be adversely affected by inflationary or market fluctuations in the cost of products consumed in providing our services or our cost of labor The prices we pay for the principal items we consume in performing our services are dependent primarily on current market prices. Additionally, our cost of labor may be influenced by unanticipated factors in certain market areas or increases in collective bargaining agreements of our clients, to which we assent. Although we endeavor to pass on such increased costs to our clients, any inability or delay in passing on such increases in costs could negatively impact our profitability. Market expectations are high and rely greatly on execution of our growth strategy and related increases in financial performance. Management believes the historical price increases of our Common Stock reflect high market expectations for our future operating results. In particular, our ability to attract new clients, through organic growth or 9 Table of Contents acquisitions, has enabled us to execute our growth strategy and increase market share. If, in the event we are not able to continue historical client and revenue growth rates, our operating performance may be adversely affected. Any failure to meet the market’s high expectations for our revenue and operating results may trigger our Common Stock price to decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 