Item 1A. Risk Factors. We make forward-looking statements, within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, in this report and documents incorporated by reference into this report, other public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and in our press releases. Such forward-looking statements are not historical facts but rather are based on current expectations, estimates and projections about our business and industry, our beliefs and assumptions. Generally they may include statements on: projections of revenues, net income, earnings per share, cash flows and other financial data. Additionally, we may make forward-looking statements relating to business objectives of management and evaluations of the market we serve. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results or objectives to differ materially from those projected. The inclusion of forward-looking statements should not be regarded as a representation by us that any of our plans will be achieved. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You should carefully consider the risk factors we have described below, as well as other information related to such contained within this annual report on Form 10-K because these factors could cause the actual results and our financial condition to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. We believe that the risks described below are our most significant risk factors but there may be risks and uncertainties that are not currently known to us or that we currently deemed to be immaterial. Therefore, any such unknown or deemed immaterial risks and uncertainties, as well as those noted below could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations and cash flows. We provide services to several clients who have substantial national nursing home operations which contribute significantly, on an individual, as well as aggregate basis, to our total revenues. We have one such national client that we consider a Major Client. Our Major Client accounted for 9% of our 2011 total consolidated revenues, consisting of 11% and 5% of our Housekeeping and Dietary revenues, respectively. At December 31, 2011, amounts due from such client represented less than 1% of our accounts receivable balance. Additionally, we have several other clients who have 8 Table of Contents an individual contribution to our total consolidated revenues ranging from 3% to 6%. Although we expect to continue the relationship with these significant clients, there can be no assurance thereof. The loss, individually or in combination, of such clients, or a significant reduction in the revenues we receive from such clients, would have a material adverse effect on the results of operations of our two operating segments. In addition, if any of these clients change or alter current payment terms it could increase our accounts receivable balance and have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and cash and cash equivalents. Our clients are concentrated in the health care industry which is currently facing considerable legislative proposals to reform it. Therefore, many of our Clients rely on reimbursement from Medicare, Medicaid and other third-party payors. Rates from such payors may be altered or reduced affecting our Clients’ results of operations and cash flows. We provide our services primarily to providers of long-term care. In March 2010, the U.S. Congress enacted the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (the “Act”), and is considering further legislation to reform healthcare in the United States which could significantly impact our clients. Most recently, in July 2011, CMS issued final rulings which, among other things, reduced, effective October 1, 2011, Medicare payments to nursing centers by 11.1% and changed the reimbursement for the provision of group rehabilitation therapy services to Medicare beneficiaries. In addition, some states have enacted or are considering enacting measures designed to reduce their Medicaid expenditures. We cannot predict what efforts, and to what extent, such legislation and proposals to contain healthcare costs will ultimately impact our clients’ revenues through reimbursement rate modifications. Congress has enacted a number of major laws during the past decade that have significantly altered, or may alter, overall government reimbursement for nursing home services. Because our clients’ revenues are generally highly reliant on Medicare, Medicaid and other third-party payors’ reimbursement funding rates and mechanisms, the overall effect of these laws and trends in the long term care industry have affected and could adversely affect the liquidity of our clients, resulting in their inability to make payments to us on agreed upon payment terms. These factors, in addition to delays in payments from clients have resulted in, and could continue to result in, significant additional bad debts in the future. Federal health care reform legislation’s eventual impact, including requiring most individuals to have health insurance and establish new regulation on health plans, may adversely affect our business and results of operations. The Act includes a large number of health-related provisions that become effective over the next three years, including requiring most individuals to have health insurance and establishing new regulations on health plans. While much of the cost of the recent healthcare legislation enacted will occur on or after 2014 due to provisions of the legislation being phased in over time, changes to our healthcare cost structure could have an impact on our business and operating costs. Providing such additional health insurance benefits to our employees or the payment of penalties if such coverage is not provided, would increase our expense. If we are unable to pass-through these charges to our clients to cover this expense, such increases in expense could adversely impact our business and operating costs. We have clients located in many states which have had and may continue to experience significant budget deficits and such deficits may result in reduction of reimbursements to nursing homes. Many states, in which our clients are located, have significant budget deficits as a result of lower than projected revenue collections and increased demand for the funding of entitlements. As a result of these and other adverse economic factors, States Medicaid programs are reconsidering previously approved increases in nursing home reimbursement or are considering delaying those increases. Some states have over the past year indicated they may be unable to make entitlement payments, including Medicaid payments to nursing homes. Any disruption or delay in the distribution of Medicaid and related payments to our clients will adversely affect their liquidity and impact their ability to pay us as agreed upon for the services provided. 9 Table of Contents The Company has substantial investment in the creditworthiness and financial condition of our customers. The largest current asset on our balance sheet on a net basis is our accounts and notes receivable balances from our customers. We grant credit to substantially all of our customers. Deterioration in financial condition across a significant component of our customer base could hinder our ability to collect amounts from our customers. The potential causes of such decline include national or local economic downturns, customers’ dependence on continued Medicare and Medicaid funding and the impact of additional regulatory actions. When contractual terms are not met, we generally encounter difficulty in collecting amounts due from certain of our clients. Therefore, we have sometimes been required to extend the period of payment for certain clients beyond contractual terms. These clients include those who have terminated service agreements and slow payers experiencing financial difficulties. In making our credit evaluations, in addition to analyzing and anticipating, where possible, the specific cases described above, we consider the general collection risk associated with trends in the long-term care industry. We also establish credit limits, perform ongoing credit evaluation and monitor accounts to minimize the risk of loss. Notwithstanding our efforts to minimize credit risk exposure, our clients could be adversely affected if future industry trends change in such a manner as to negatively impact their cash flows. If our clients experience a negative impact in their cash flows, it would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We have a Paid Loss Retrospective Insurance Plan for general liability and workers’ compensation insurance. We self-insure or carry a high deductible, and therefore retain a substantial portion of the risk associated with the expected losses under our general liability and workers compensation programs. Under our insurance plans for general liability and workers’ compensation, predetermined loss limits are arranged with our insurance company to limit both our per occurrence cash outlay and annual insurance plan cost. We regularly evaluate our claims pay-out experience, present value factor and other factors related to the nature of specific claims in arriving at the basis for our accrued insurance claims estimate. Our evaluation is based primarily on current information derived from reviewing our claims experience and industry trends. In the event that our known claims experience and/or industry trends result in an unfavorable change in initial estimates of costs to settle such claims resulting from, among other factors, the severity levels of reported claims and medical cost inflation, it would have an adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Federal, State and Local tax rules can adversely impact our results of operations and financial position. We are subject to Federal, State and Local taxes in the United States and Canada. Significant judgment is required in determining the provision of income taxes. We believe our income tax estimates are reasonable. Although, if the Internal Revenue Service or other taxing authority disagrees with a taken tax position and upon final adjudication we are unsuccessful, we could incur additional tax liability, including interest and penalty. Such costs and expenses could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial position. Additionally, the taxability of our services is subject to various interpretations within the taxing jurisdictions of our markets. Consequently, in the ordinary course of business, a jurisdiction may contest our reporting positions with respect to the application of its tax code to our services. A jurisdiction’s conflicting position on the taxability of our services could result in additional tax liabilities which we may not be able to pass on to our clients or could negatively impact our competitive position in the respective location. Additionally, if we or one of our employees fail to comply with applicable tax laws and regulations we could suffer civil or criminal penalties in addition to the delinquent tax assessment. In the taxing jurisdictions where our services have been determined to be subject to tax, the jurisdiction may increase the tax rate assessed on such services. We endeavor to pass-through to our clients such tax increases. In the event we are not able to pass-through any portion of the tax increase, it may have an adverse impact on our gross margin. 10 Table of Contents Our business and financial results could be adversely affected by unfavorable results of material litigation or governmental inquiries. We are currently involved in civil litigations and government inquiries which arise in the ordinary course of business. These matters are related to, among other things, general liability, payroll or employee-related matters, as well as inquiries from governmental agencies. Legal actions could result in substantial monetary damages as well as adversely affect our reputation and business status with our clients whether we are ultimately determined to be liable or not. The outcome of litigation, particularly class action lawsuits and regulatory actions, is difficult to assess or quantity. The plaintiffs in these types of actions may seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and such amounts may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. We assess contingencies to determine the degree of probability and range of possible loss of potential accrual in our financial statements. We would accrue an estimated loss contingency in our financial statements if it were probable that a liability had been incurred and the amount of the loss could be reasonably estimated. Due to the unpredictable and unfavorable nature of litigation, assessing contingencies is highly subjective and requires judgments about future events. The amount of actual losses may differ from our current assessment. As a result of the costs and expenses of defending ourselves against lawsuits or claims, and risks and consequences of legal actions, regardless of merit, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected or cause variability in our results compared to expectations. We primarily provide our services pursuant to agreements which have a one year term, cancelable by either party upon 30 to 90 days’ notice after the initial 90-day service agreement period. We do not enter into long-term contractual agreements with our clients for the rendering of our services. Consequently, our clients can unilaterally decrease the amount of services we provide or terminate all services pursuant to the terms of our service agreements. Any loss of a significant number of clients during the first year of providing services, for which we have incurred significant start-up costs or invested in an equipment installation, could in the aggregate materially adversely affect our consolidated results of operations and financial position. We are dependent on the management experience of our key personnel. We manage and provide our services through a network of management personnel, from the on-site facility manager up to our executive officers. Therefore, we believe that our ability to recruit and sustain the internal development of managerial personnel is an important factor impacting future operating results and our ability to successfully execute projected growth strategies. Our professional management personnel are the key personnel in maintaining and selling additional services to current clients and obtaining new clients. We may be adversely affected by inflationary or market fluctuations in the cost of products consumed in providing our services or our cost of labor. Additionally, we rely on certain vendors for certain housekeeping, laundry and dietary supplies. The prices we pay for the principal items we consume in performing our services are dependent primarily on current market prices. We have consolidated certain supply purchases with national vendors through agreements containing negotiated prospective pricing. In the event such vendors are not able to comply with their obligations under the agreements and we are required to seek alternative suppliers, we may incur increased costs of supplies. Dietary supplies, to a much greater extent than Housekeeping supplies, are impacted by commodity pricing factors, which in many cases are unpredictable and outside of our control. Although we endeavor to pass on to clients such increased costs, from time to time, sporadic unanticipated increases in the costs of certain supply items due to market economic conditions may result in a timing delay in passing on such increases to our clients. It is this type of spike in Dietary supplies’ costs that could most adversely affect Dietary’s operating performance. The adverse effect would be realized if we delay in passing on such costs to our clients or in instances where we may not be able to pass such increase on to our clients until the time of our next scheduled service billing review. We endeavor to mitigate the impact of unanticipated increase in such supplies’ costs thought consolidation of vendors, which increases our ability to obtain reduced pricing. 11 Table of Contents Our cost of labor may be influenced by unanticipated factors in certain market areas or increases in the respective collective bargaining agreement of our clients, to which we assent. A substantial amount of our employees are hourly employees whose wage rates are affected by increases in the federal or state minimum wage rate. We are subject to the Fair Labor Standards Act, which governs such matters as minimum wages, overtime and other working conditions. As collective bargaining agreements are renegotiated or minimum wage rates increases, which will occur in eight states in 2012, we may need to increase the wages paid to employees. This may be applicable to not only minimum wage employees but also to employees at wage rates which are currently above the minimum wage. Although we have contractual rights to pass such wage increases through to our clients, our delay in, or inability to pass such wage increases through to our clients could have a material adverse effect on financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Any perceived or real health risks related to the food industry could adversely affect our dietary segment. We are subject to risks affecting the food industry generally, including food spoilage and food contamination. Our products are susceptible to contamination by disease-producing organisms, or pathogens, such as listeria monocytogenes, salmonella, campylobacter, hepatitis A, trichinosis and generic E. coli. Because these pathogens are generally found in the environment, there is a risk that these pathogens could be introduced to our products as a result of improper handling at the manufacturing, processing or foodservice level. Our suppliers’ manufacturing facilities and products are subject to extensive laws and regulations relating to health, food preparation, sanitation and safety standards. Difficulties or failures by these companies in obtaining any required licenses or approvals or otherwise complying with such laws and regulations could adversely affect our revenue that is generated from these companies. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that compliance with governmental regulations by our suppliers will eliminate the risks related to food safety. Events reported in the media, such as incidents involving food-borne illnesses or food tampering, whether or not accurate, can cause damage to the reputation of our dietary segment. In addition, to the extent there is an outbreak of food related illness in any of our client facilities; it could materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our investments represent a significant amount of our assets that may be subject to fluctuating and even negative returns depending upon interest rate movements and financial market conditions. Although management believes we have a prudent investment policy, we are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates and in the market values of our investment portfolio which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our marketable securities are primarily invested in municipal bonds. We believe that our investment criteria which includes reducing our exposure to individual states, requiring certain credit ratings and limiting our investments’ duration period, reduces our exposure related to the financial duress and budget shortfalls that many state and local governments currently face. Market expectations are high and rely greatly on execution of our growth strategy and related increases in financial performance. Management believes the historical price increases of our Common Stock reflect high market expectations for our future operating results. In particular, our ability to attract new clients, through organic growth or acquisitions, has enabled us to execute our growth strategy and increase market share. Our business strategy focuses on growth and improving profitability through obtaining service agreements with new clients, providing new services to existing clients, obtaining modest price increases on current service agreements with existing clients and maintaining internal cost reduction strategies at our various operational levels. In respect to providing new services to new or existing clients, our strategy is to achieve corresponding profit margins in each of our segments. If, in the event we are not able to continue either historical client, revenue and profitability growth rates or projected improvement in such factors, our operating performance may be adversely affected and the high expectations for our market performance may not be met. Any failure to meet the market’s high expectations for our revenue and operating results may have an adverse effect on the market price of our Common Stock. 12 Table of Contents Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis. We are required to maintain internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Rule 13a-15 under the Exchange Act. Failure to maintain such controls could result in misstatements in our financial statements and potentially subject us to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities or could cause us to delay the filing of required reports with the SEC and our reporting of financial results. Any of these events could result in a decline in the price of shares of our common stock. Although we have taken steps to maintain our internal control structure as required, we cannot assure you that control deficiencies will not result in a misstatement in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 