ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluation of our business. Our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Additional risks not presently known to us, or which we currently consider immaterial, may also impair our business and operations. We have limited working capital and may not be able to continue as a going concern. At December 31, 2014, the Company had a loss from continuing operations. This, combined with a history of operating losses and working capital deficiency, has been detrimental to our operations and could potentially affect our ability to meet our obligations and continue as a going concern. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon the successful execution of our business plan to achieve profitability and to increase working capital, raising debt and / or equity. Volatility in capital and credit markets, or other unfavorable changes in economic conditions, could adversely impact us. The capital and credit markets are subject to volatility and disruption. We may not be able to obtain new debt financing or refinance our existing debt on favorable terms or at all, which would adversely affect our liquidity, our ability to make distributions to stockholders and acquire and dispose of assets. Other weakened economic conditions, including job losses and high unemployment rates, could adversely affect rental rates and occupancy levels. Unfavorable changes in economic conditions may have a material adverse impact on our cash flows and operating results. Additional key economic risks which may adversely affect conditions in the markets in which we operate include the following: · local conditions, such as an oversupply of office space available to rent, or a reduction in demand for office space in the area; 5 · declines in the financial condition of our tenants, which may make it more difficult for us to collect rents from some tenants; · declines in market rental rates; · regional economic downturns which affect one or more of our geographical markets; and · increased operating costs, if these costs cannot be passed through to tenants. Difficulties of selling real estate could limit our flexibility. We intend to continue to evaluate the potential disposition of assets which may no longer meet our investment objectives. When we decide to sell an asset, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers in a timely manner as real estate investments generally cannot be disposed of quickly, especially when market conditions are poor. These factors may limit our ability to vary our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions and may also limit our ability to utilize sales proceeds as a source of liquidity, which would adversely affect our ability to make distributions to stockholders or repay debt. Competition could limit our ability to lease our properties or increase or maintain rental income. There are numerous alternatives which compete with our properties in attracting tenants. Some of these other properties may be newer and offer more modern amenities. This competitive environment could have a material adverse effect on our ability to lease our present properties as well as on the rents realized. Our acquisition strategy may not produce the cash flows expected. We may acquire additional operating properties on a selective basis. Our acquisition activities are subject to a number of risks, including the following: · our percentage ownership in any new property may be small; · we may not be able to successfully integrate acquired properties into our existing operations; · our estimates of the costs, if any, of repositioning or redeveloping the acquired property may prove inaccurate; · the expected occupancy and rental rates may differ from the actual results; and · we may not be able to obtain adequate financing. A portion of any acquisitions we may make in the near future will have to be made through the issuance and/or sale of shares of our common stock and will likely result in our ownership together with other partners. We may not be able to identify suitable partners or properties on terms acceptable to us and may not achieve expected returns or other benefits. Losses from catastrophes may exceed our insurance coverage. We carry comprehensive property and liability insurance on our properties, which we believe is of the type and amount customarily obtained on similar real property assets by similar types of owners. We intend to obtain similar coverage for properties we acquire in the future. However, some losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as losses from floods, hurricanes, or earthquakes, may be subject to coverage limitations. We exercise our discretion in determining amounts, coverage limits, and deductible provisions of insurance to maintain appropriate insurance on our investments at a reasonable cost and on suitable terms. If we suffer a catastrophic loss, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to pay the full current market value or current replacement value of our lost investment, as well as the anticipated future revenues from the property. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations, and other factors also may reduce the feasibility of using insurance proceeds to replace a property after it has been damaged or destroyed. Investments through joint ventures involve risks not present in investments in which we are the sole investor. We have invested, and may continue to invest, as a joint venture partner in joint ventures. These investments involve risks, including the possibility the other joint venture partner may have business goals which are inconsistent with ours, possess the ability to take action or withhold consent contrary to our requests, or become insolvent and require us to assume and fulfill the joint venture’s financial obligations. We and our joint venture partner may each have the right to initiate a buy-sell arrangement, which could cause us to sell our interest, or acquire our joint venture partner’s interest, at a time when we otherwise would not have entered into such a transaction. Each joint venture agreement is individually negotiated, and our ability to operate, finance, and/or dispose of a community in our sole discretion may be limited to varying degrees depending on the terms of the joint venture agreement. 6 Tax matters, including failure to qualify as a REIT, could have adverse consequences. We may not continue to qualify as a REIT in the future. The Internal Revenue Service may challenge our qualification as a REIT for prior years and new legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations, or court decisions may change the tax laws or the application of the tax laws with respect to qualification as a REIT or the federal tax consequences of such qualification. For any taxable year that we fail to qualify as a REIT and do not qualify under statutory relief provisions: · we would be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates, including any applicable alternative minimum tax; · we would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which we failed to qualify, thereby reducing our net income, including any distributions to shareholders, as we would be required to pay significant income taxes for the year or years involved; and · our ability to expand our business and raise capital would be impaired, which may adversely affect the value of our common shares. We may face other tax liabilities in the future which may impact our cash flow. These potential tax liabilities may be calculated on our income or property values at either the corporate or individual property levels. Any additional tax expense incurred would decrease the cash available for cash distributions to our common shareholders, perpetual preferred unit holders, and non-controlling interest holders. We depend on our key personnel. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract and retain the services of executive officers and other personnel. There is substantial competition for qualified personnel in the real estate industry, and the loss of key personnel could have an adverse effect on us. Insufficient cash flows could limit our ability to pay our operating expenses to make required payments for debt obligations or pay distributions to shareholders. All of our income is derived from rental and other income from our Mapletree property. As a result, our performance depends in large part on our ability to collect rent from tenants, which could be negatively affected by a number of factors, including the following: · delay in lease commencements; · decline in occupancy; · failure of tenants to make rental payments when due; · the attractiveness of our properties to tenants and potential tenants; · our ability to adequately manage and maintain our properties; · competition from other available commercial alternatives; and · changes in market rents. Cash flow could be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest with respect to debt financing. In order for us to continue to qualify as a REIT, we must meet a number of organizational and operational requirements, including a requirement to distribute annual dividends to our stockholders equal to a minimum of 90% of our REIT taxable income, computed without regard to the dividends paid deduction and our net capital gains. This requirement limits the cash available to meet required principal payments on our debt. We may be unable to renew, repay or refinance our outstanding debt. We are subject to the risk that indebtedness on our properties will not be renewed, repaid or refinanced when due or the terms of any renewal or refinancing will not be as favorable as the existing terms of such indebtedness. If we are unable to refinance our indebtedness on acceptable terms, or at all, we might be forced to dispose of one or more of the properties on disadvantageous terms, which might result in losses to us. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and pay amounts due on our debt. Furthermore, if a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and we are unable to meet mortgage payments, the mortgagee could foreclose on the property, appoint a receiver and exercise rights under an assignment of rents and leases, or pursue other remedies, all with a consequent loss of our revenues and asset value. Foreclosures could also create taxable income without accompanying cash proceeds, thereby hindering our ability to meet the REIT distribution requirements of the Code. 7 Issuances of additional debt may adversely impact our financial condition. Our capital requirements depend on numerous factors, including the rental and occupancy rates of our properties, dividend payment rates to our stockholders, capital expenditures, costs of operations and potential acquisitions. If our capital requirements vary materially from our plans, we may require additional financing earlier than anticipated. If we issue more debt, we could become more leveraged, resulting in increased risk of default on our obligations and an increase in our debt service requirements, both of which could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to access debt and equity capital markets in the future. Share ownership limits and our ability to issue additional equity securities may prevent takeovers beneficial to shareholders. For us to maintain our qualification as a REIT, we must have 100 or more shareholders during the year and not more than 50% in value of our outstanding shares may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals. As defined for federal income tax purposes, the term “individuals” includes a number of specified entities. To minimize the possibility of us failing to qualify as a REIT under this test, our articles of incorporation include restrictions on transfers of our shares and ownership limits. The ownership limits, as well as our ability to issue other classes of equity securities, may delay, defer, or prevent a change in control. These provisions may also deter tender offers for our common shares which may be attractive to you or limit your opportunity to receive a premium for your shares which might otherwise exist if a third party were attempting to effect a change in control transaction. Our share price will fluctuate. The market price and trading volume of our common shares are subject to fluctuation due to general market conditions, the risks discussed in this report and other matters, including the following: · operating results which vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors; · investor interest in our property portfolio; · the reputation and performance of REITs; · the attractiveness of REITs as compared to other investment vehicles; · the results of our financial condition and operations; · the perception of our growth and earnings potential; · dividend payment rates; · increases in market interest rates, which may lead purchasers of our common shares to demand a higher yield; and · changes in financial markets and national economic and general market conditions. The form, timing and/or amount of dividend distributions in future periods may vary and be impacted by economic and other considerations. The form, timing and/or amount of dividend distributions will be declared at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on actual cash from operations, our financial condition, capital requirements, the annual distribution requirements under the REIT provisions of the Code and other factors as the Board may consider relevant. The Board may modify the form, timing and/or amount of dividends from time to time. Our common stock is quoted on the Pink Sheets OTCQB market which may have an unfavorable impact on our stock price and liquidity. Our common stock is quoted on the Pink Sheets OTCQB market, which is a significantly more limited trading market than the New York Stock Exchange or The NASDAQ Stock Market. The quotation of the Company’s shares on the OTCQB may result in a less liquid market available for existing and potential stockholders to trade shares of our common stock, could depress the trading price of our common stock and could have a long-term adverse impact on our ability to raise capital in the future. When fewer shares of a security are being traded on the OTCQB, volatility of prices may increase and price movement may outpace the ability to deliver accurate quote information. Due to lower trading volumes in shares of our common stock, there may be a lower likelihood of one’s orders for shares of our common stock being executed, and current prices may differ significantly from the price one was quoted at the time of one’s order entry. 8 Our common stock is thinly traded, so stockholders may be unable to sell at or near asking prices or at all if you need to sell your shares to raise money or otherwise desire to liquidate your shares. Currently, our common stock is quoted in the Pink Sheets OTCQB market and the trading volume the Company anticipates to develop may be limited by the fact that many major institutional investment funds, including mutual funds, as well as individual investors follow a policy of not investing in unlisted stocks and certain major brokerage firms restrict their brokers from recommending unlisted stocks because they are considered speculative, volatile and thinly traded. The Pink Sheets OTCQB market is an inter-dealer market much less regulated than the major exchanges, and our common stock is subject to abuses, volatility and shorting. Thus, there is currently no broadly followed and established trading market for our common stock. An established trading market may never develop or be maintained. Active trading markets generally result in lower price volatility and more efficient execution of buy and sell orders. Absence of an active trading market reduces the liquidity of the shares traded there. The trading volume of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, limited and sporadic. As a result of such trading activity, the quoted price for our common stock on the OTCQB may not necessarily be a reliable indicator of its fair market value. Further, if we cease to be quoted, holders would find it more difficult to dispose of our common stock or to obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our common stock and as a result, the market value of our common stock likely would decline. We are subject to the penny stock rules adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) that require brokers to provide extensive disclosure to its customers prior to executing trades in penny stocks. These disclosure requirements may cause a reduction in the trading activity of our common stock, which in all likelihood would make it difficult for our stockholders to sell their securities. Rule 3a51-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, establishes the definition of a “penny stock,” for purposes relevant to us, as any equity security that has a minimum bid price of less than $5.00 per share or with an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to a limited number of exceptions which are not available to us. This classification would severely and adversely affect any market liquidity for our common stock. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the penny stock rules require that a broker or dealer approve a person’s account for transactions in penny stocks and the broker or dealer receive from the investor a written agreement to the transaction setting forth the identity and quantity of the penny stock to be purchased. In order to approve a person’s account for transactions in penny stocks, the broker or dealer must obtain financial information and investment experience and objectives of the person and make a reasonable determination that the transactions in penny stocks are suitable for that person and that that person has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial matters to be capable of evaluating the risks of transactions in penny stocks. The broker or dealer must also deliver, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, a disclosure schedule required by the SEC relating to the penny stock market, which, in highlight form, sets forth: · The basis on which the broker or dealer made the suitability determination; and · That the broker or dealer received a signed, written agreement from the investor prior to the transaction. Disclosure also has to be made about the risks of investing in penny stocks in both public offerings and in secondary trading and commission payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and the rights and remedies available to an investor in cases of fraud in penny stock transactions. Finally, monthly statements have to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. Because of these regulations, broker-dealers may not wish to engage in the above-referenced necessary paperwork and disclosures and/or may encounter difficulties in their attempt to sell shares of our common stock, which may affect the ability of selling stockholders or other holders to sell their shares in any secondary market and have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in any secondary market. These additional sales practice and disclosure requirements could impede the sale of our common stock, if and when our common stock becomes publicly traded. In addition, the liquidity for our common stock may decrease, with a corresponding decrease in the price of our common stock. Our common stock, in all probability, will be subject to such penny stock rules for the foreseeable future and our stockholders will, in all likelihood, find it difficult to sell their common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 