Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business Changing Market Conditions and Increased Competitive Risks. The market for our multi-protocol storage area networking (SAN) products and solutions has grown and will continue to become more competitive with (a) the entrance of competitors from the IP based switching market into our SAN market, (b) pricing pressures resulting from this increase in competitive SAN networking products and solutions, (c) challenges to our direct-assist sales model with distribution through channels when our competitors engage end-user customers directly or otherwise have the ability to drive end-user customer preference for SAN equipment through their traditional IP networking presence and relationships, and (d) anticipated competition from our own storage OEM partners through their recent acquisitions of, or alliances with, competitive software management products and/or application providers that would utilize the intelligence in the network. As a result of these market changes, we anticipate continued lengthened sales cycles and price erosion in an environment where storage OEM certification of our products may still be required for end-user customer acceptance. Given our direct-assist sales model with distribution through our channel partners, we are highly dependent upon our channel partners' relationships with end-user customers to promote the value of our products. If our channel partners do not promote the value of our products or competitors begin to control end-user customer preference, we may lose sales in key enterprise accounts that would materially adversely affect our revenues. We are highly dependent on our OEM partners, especially EMC, and efforts by them to reduce the prices of their suppliers may decrease our revenue and gross margins. We are highly dependent on our OEM partners, especially EMC, and efforts by them to reduce the prices of their suppliers may decrease our revenue and gross margins. For example, given our concentration of sales with EMC, and the revenue decline with EMC experienced during the fiscal year 2004, we may continue to experience decreases in sales revenue and gross margins that may lead us to be unprofitable. Moreover, the introduction of such new products and any pending qualification and certification by our partners may stall sales of our existing products with end user customers. Given the dependencies on our limited number of OEM resellers combined with an increasingly competitive environment, we may experience continued adverse price pressure at critical times near the end of the fiscal quarters. We may not be able to successfully compete against existing or potential competitors. The market for our multi-protocol SAN switching hardware and software products is highly competitive, especially with the entrance of competitors from the IP based switch market. Our competitors are providing SAN switching hardware, service blades solutions and software that is multi-protocol capable (such as Fibre Channel over IP (FCIP), SCSI over Internet (iSCSI), Internet Fibre Channel (iFCP) and InfiniBand). Our competitors in the this market include Brocade, CNT, Cisco, QLogic Corp., Emulex Corporation (which acquired Vixel Corporation), Broadcom Corporation (which acquired the assets of Gadzoox Networks), Veritas Software Corporation, Fujitsu Softech and others, including storage hardware device providers. Given the market share gain by Cisco, other IP based switching companies such as Juniper, Extreme, Foundry and others may enter the market for multi-protocol SAN products. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, access to larger customer bases, more established distribution channels and substantially greater financial and managerial resources than McDATA. Given the highly competitive market, we anticipate continued lengthened sales cycles and continued downward pricing pressures. To be competitive, we may have to increase headcount in our direct-assist sales model and migrate to a direct end-user customers touch and possibly to direct sales, which we may not be able to do successfully and which, in any case, will increase expenses. Continued or increased competition 13 could result in pricing pressures, reduced sales, reduced margins, reduced profits, reduced market share, further elongating of sales cycles, or the failure of our products to achieve or maintain market acceptance. We incurred a substantial loss for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2005, January 31, 2004 and December 31, 2002 and may not be profitable in the future. We incurred losses of $20.9 million, $43.1 million and $10.0 million, respectively, for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2005, January 31, 2004 and December 31, 2002. Our future operating results will depend on many factors, including the growth of the multi-protocol (Fibre Channel and IP) market, market acceptance of new products we introduce, demand for our products, levels of product and price competition and our reaching and maintaining targeted costs for our products. In addition, we expect to incur continued significant product development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses. We cannot provide assurance that we will generate sufficient revenue to achieve or sustain profitability. The prices and gross margins of our products may decline, which would reduce our revenues and profitability. In response to changes in product mix, competitive pricing pressures, increased sales discounts, introductions of new competitive products, product enhancements by our competitors, increases in manufacturing or labor costs or other operating expenses, we may experience declines in the prices, gross margins and profitability. To maintain our gross margins we must maintain or increase current shipment volumes, develop and introduce new products and product enhancements and reduce the costs to produce our products. Moreover, most of our expenses are fixed in the short-term or incurred in advance of receipt of corresponding revenue. As a result, we may not be able to decrease our spending to offset any unexpected shortfall in revenues. If this occurs, we could incur losses, and our revenue, gross margins and operating results may be below our expectations and those of investors and stock market analysts. We depend on two key distribution relationships for most of our revenue and the loss of either of them could significantly reduce our revenues. We depend on EMC and IBM, for a significant portion of our total revenue. Sales to EMC and IBM represented approximately 47% and 25%, respectively, of our revenue for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2005. The 25% of our revenue attributable to IBM does not include $15.3 million of ESCON product revenue recognized from July 1 through January 31, 2005. We anticipate that our future operating results will continue to depend heavily on sales to EMC and IBM. EMC and IBM resell products offered by our competitors, and nothing restricts EMC and IBM from expanding those relationships in a manner that could be adverse to us. Therefore, the loss of either EMC and IBM as a customer, or a significant reduction in sales to either EMC and IBM could significantly reduce our revenue. While we are aware that Dell sources some of our switch product through EMC, it is unclear whether this mitigates our dependency on EMC. Our product sales agreements with sales partners do not provide for the purchase of a guaranteed minimum amount of product. We currently have limited product offerings and must successfully introduce new products and product enhancements that respond to rapid technological changes and evolving industry standards. For the fiscal year ended January 31, 2005, we derived a significant portion of our revenue from sales of our director-class Intrepid switch products. We expect that revenue from our director-class Intrepid products will continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future. Factors such as performance, market positioning, the availability and price of competing products, the introduction of new technologies and the success of our OEM, reseller and systems integrator customers will affect the market acceptance of our products. Therefore, continued market 14 acceptance of these products and their successor products, along with our Intrepid 10000 Director, are critical to our future success. In addition, our future success depends upon our ability to address the changing needs of customers and to transition to new technologies and industry standards. The introduction of competing products embodying new technologies or the emergence of new industry standards could render our products non-competitive, obsolete or unmarketable and seriously harm our market share, revenue and gross margin. Risks inherent in transitions to new technology, industry standards and new protocols include the inability to expand production capacity to meet demand for new products, write-downs of our existing inventory due to obsolescence, the impact of customer demand for new products or products being replaced, and delays in the introduction or initial shipment of new products. There can be no assurance that we will successfully manage these transitions. We are currently developing products that contain untested devices and subassemblies. As with any development, there are inherent risks should such devices or subassemblies require redesign or rework. In particular, in conjunction with the transition of our products from fibre channel to multi-protocol, 2 Gb to 4 Gb to 8 Gb to 10 Gb transmission speed technology, higher port densities, and advanced management capabilities, we will be introducing products with new features and functionality, such as our next generation director-class switch product, the Intrepid 10000 Director. We face risks relating to this product transition, including risks relating to getting storage and system OEMs to qualify such products, forecasting of demand, as well as possible product and software defects and a potentially different sales and support environment due to the complexity of these new systems. Finally, if we fail to timely introduce new products, or to add new features and functions to existing products to compete against new entrants in the market, or if there is no demand for these or our current products, our business could be seriously harmed. Risks related to our recently announced acquisition. In January 2005, we announced our intent to acquire Computer Network Technology Corporation (CNT). While management believes that such acquisitions are an integral part of the Company's long-term strategy, there are risks and uncertainties related to acquiring companies. Once the CNT acquisition is completed, our success will depend upon retaining customers and existing contracts, integrating CNT and their products with McDATA, finalizing a combined roadmap retaining critical employees from CNT and ramping sales. Our business is subject to risks from global operations. We conduct significant sales and customer support operations in countries outside of the United States and also depend on non-U.S. operations of our contract manufacturers, and our distribution partners. Further, we utilize an India based firm to provide certain software engineering services, and our virtualization chip supplier, Aarohi Communications, is also reliant on offshore engineering. We derived approximately 38% of our revenue for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2005, from customers located outside of the United States. We believe that our continued growth and profitability will require us to continue to expand marketing and selling efforts internationally. We have limited experience in marketing, distributing and supporting our products internationally and may not be able to maintain or increase international market demand for our products. In addition, our international operations are generally subject to inherent risks and challenges that could harm our operating results, including: •expenses associated with developing and customizing our products for foreign countries; •difficulties in staffing and managing international operations, including reliance on third parties to manage certain aspects of our foreign operations, including hub inventory locations; •multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations; 15 •tariffs, quotas and other import or export restrictions, trade protection measures and other regulatory requirements on computer peripheral equipment; •longer sales cycles for our products; •reduced or limited protections of intellectual property rights; •adverse tax consequences, including imposition of withholding or other taxes on payments by subsidiaries and customers; •compliance with international standards that differ from domestic standards; •risks surrounding any product and software outsourcing activities in foreign countries; and •political, social and economic instability in a specific country or region. Any negative effects on our international business could harm our business, operating results and financial condition as a whole. To date, substantially all of our international revenue or costs have been denominated in U.S. dollars. As a result, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products more expensive and thus less competitive in foreign markets. A portion of our international revenue may be denominated in foreign currencies in the future, which will subject us to risks associated with fluctuations in those foreign currencies. Unforeseen environmental costs could impact our future net earnings. Some of our operations use substances regulated under various federal, state and international laws governing the environment, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. Certain of our products are subject to various federal, state and international laws governing chemical substances in electronic products. We could incur costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, loss of revenue, third-party property damage or personal injury claims if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws. The ultimate costs under environmental laws and the timing of these costs are difficult to predict. The European Union has finalized the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive, which makes producers of electrical goods financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products. This directive must now be enacted and implemented by individual European Union governments (such legislation together with the directive, the "WEEE Legislation"), and certain producers are to be financially responsible under the WEEE Legislation beginning in August 2005. In addition, the European Parliament has enacted a requirement for the elimination or reduction of hazardous substances (RoHS). This legislation governs the recovery of such substances as mercury, lead, cadmium, and hexavalent cadmium. We are currently reviewing the applicability of WEEE and RoHS Legislation to our electronic products. Accordingly, we cannot currently estimate the extent of increased costs resulting from the WEEE and RoHS Legislation. Similar legislation may be enacted in other geographies, including federal and state legislation in the United States, the cumulative impact of which could be significant costs. Increased international political instability may decrease customer purchases, increase our costs and disrupt our business. Increased international political instability as demonstrated by the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, disruption in air transportation and enhanced security measures as a result of the terrorist attacks and increasing tension in the Middle East, may hinder our ability to do business and may increase our costs. Additionally, this increased instability may, for example, negatively impact the capital markets and the reliability and cost of transportation and adversely affect our ability to obtain adequate insurance at reasonable rates or require us to incur costs for extra security precautions for our operations. In addition, to the extent that air transportation is delayed or disrupted, the operations 16 of our contract manufacturers and suppliers may be disrupted, particularly if shipments of components and raw materials are delayed. If this international political instability continues or increases, our business and results of operations could be seriously harmed and we may not be able to obtain financing in the capital markets. Risks related to internal controls. Public companies in the United States are required to review their internal controls under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. It should be noted that any system of controls, however well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system are met. In addition, the design of any control system is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events. Because of these and other inherent limitations of control systems, there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions, regardless of how remote. If the internal controls put in place by us are not adequate or in conformity with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, we may be forced to restate our financial statements and take other actions which will take significant financial and managerial resources, as well as be subject to fines and other government enforcement actions. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, we may not be able to compete effectively. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. We also enter into confidentiality and/or license agreements with our employees, consultants and corporate partners. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology. Monitoring unauthorized use of our products is difficult and we may not be aware that someone is using our rights without our authorization. In addition, the steps we have taken, and those we may take in the future, may not prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. We may be a party to intellectual property litigation in the future, either to protect our intellectual property or as a result of alleged infringements of others' intellectual property. These or other claims and any resulting litigation or arbitration could subject us to significant costs, liability for damages or could cause our proprietary rights to be invalidated or deemed unenforceable, which could allow third parties to use our rights without reservation. Litigation or arbitration, regardless of the merits of the claim or outcome, would likely be time consuming and expensive to resolve and would divert management time and attention. Any potential intellectual property litigation filed against us could also force us to do one or more of the following: •stop using the challenged intellectual property or selling our products or services that incorporate it; •obtain a license to use the challenged intellectual property or to sell products or services that incorporate it, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; and •redesign those products or services that are based on or incorporate the challenged intellectual property. If we are forced to take any of these actions, we may be unable to manufacture and sell our products, our customer relationships would be seriously harmed and our revenue would be reduced. In March 1999, we, as an EMC subsidiary, granted IBM a license to all of our patents under a cross license agreement between IBM and EMC. Under the terms of that agreement, effective upon EMC's February 7, 2001 distribution of our Class A common stock to its stockholders, the sublicense 17 we previously held to those IBM patents terminated. We believe that the termination of the sublicense does not materially affect our business. We are not aware of any issued or pending IBM patents that are infringed by our products, but if IBM were to allege any such infringement, and we were unable to negotiate a settlement with IBM, our ability to produce the alleged infringing product could be affected, which could materially and adversely affect our business. The multi-protocol SAN market in which we compete is still developing, and if this market does not continue to develop and expand as we anticipate, our business will suffer. The market for multi-protocol SAN and related products is still developing and continues to evolve. Because this market is relatively new, it is difficult to predict its potential size or future growth rate. Potential end-user customers who have invested substantial resources in their existing data storage and management systems may be reluctant or slow to adopt a new approach, like multi-protocol SANs. Our success in generating net revenue in this developing market will therefore depend on, among other things, our ability to: •educate potential OEMs, reseller and systems integrator customers and end users about the benefits and the use of our products in the SAN environment; and •predict, develop and base our products on standards that ultimately become industry standards. Accordingly, because substantially all of our revenues are derived from our Fibre Channel SAN solutions, our ability to provide multi-protocol and multi-capable products and solutions is critical to our future success and delays or a failure to provide such products and solutions could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and operations. If we fail to optimize our distribution channels and manage our distribution relationships, our revenue or operating results could be significantly reduced. Our competitors may sell their products directly to end-user customers. Our success will depend on our continuing ability to develop and manage relationships with significant OEMs, resellers and systems integrators, as well as on the sales efforts and success of these customers. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to expand our distribution channels or manage our distribution relationships successfully or that our customers will market our products effectively. Our failure to expand our distribution channels or manage successfully our distribution relationships or the failure of our OEM and reseller customers to sell our products could reduce our revenue and operating results. Moreover, to the extent our competitors sell directly to end-user customers, we may not be able to compete given the lack of a direct sales force and the current inability to directly provide first and second level customer support. If this occurs, we may need to substantially invest in a direct sales force and direct customer support which would increase our expenses. We are dependent on a single or limited number of suppliers for certain key components of our products, and the failure of any of those suppliers to meet our production needs could seriously harm our ability to manufacture our products, result in delays in the delivery of our products and harm our revenue. We currently purchase several key components from single or limited sources. We purchase application specific integrated circuits (ASICs), special purpose processors and power supplies from single sources, and gigabit interface converters and optic transceivers from limited sources. Additional sole or limited sourced components may be incorporated into our products in the future. Delays in the delivery of components for our products could result in delays or the inability to meet our customers' demands and result in decreased revenue. We do not have any long-term supply contracts to ensure sources of supply of components. In addition, our suppliers may enter into exclusive arrangements with our competitors, stop selling their products or components to us at commercially reasonable prices or 18 refuse to sell their products or components to us at any price, which could harm our operating results. Further, we have purchased components from our suppliers from time to time that have been subsequently found not to meet the supplier's published specifications. If our suppliers are unable to provide (or we are unable otherwise to obtain) components for our products on the schedule and in the quantities and quality we require, we will be unable to manufacture our products. We have experienced and may continue to experience production delays and quality control problems with certain of our suppliers, which, if not effectively managed, could prevent us from satisfying our production requirements. If we fail to effectively manage our relationships with these key suppliers, or if our suppliers experience delays, disruptions, capacity constraints or quality control problems in their manufacturing operations, our ability to manufacture and ship products to our customers could be delayed, and our competitive position, reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. The loss of our contract manufacturers, or the failure to forecast demand accurately for our products or to manage our relationship with our contract manufacturers successfully, would negatively impact our ability to manufacture and sell our products. We rely on Sanmina SCI, Inc. (SSCI), Solectron Corporation, IBM and LSI Logic, together our contract manufacturers, to manufacture our products. Our contract manufacturers are not obligated to supply products to us for any specific period, or in any specific quantity, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. In addition, our contract manufacturers do not guarantee that adequate capacity will be available to us within the time required to meet additional demand for our products. We generally place forecasts for products with our contract manufacturers approximately four to five months prior to the anticipated delivery date, with order volumes based on forecasts of demand for our products. We generally place purchase orders sixty calendar days in advance of delivery. If we fail to forecast demand for our products accurately, we may be unable to obtain adequate manufacturing capacity from our contract manufacturers to meet our customers' delivery requirements or unexpected increases in customer purchase orders. As a result, we may not be able to benefit from any incremental demand and could lose customers. If we over-estimate demand for our product, we may accumulate excess inventories and obligations to our contract manufacturers under binding purchase orders in excess of our needs. At January 31, 2005, our commitment with our contract manufacturers for purchases and anticipated transformation costs over the next sixty days totaled approximately $36.1 million. In addition, we coordinate our efforts with those of our component suppliers and contract manufacturers in order to rapidly achieve volume production. We have experienced and may continue to experience production delays and quality control problems with certain of our suppliers and with our contract manufacturers, which, if not effectively managed, could prevent us from satisfying our production requirements on a timely basis and could harm our customer relationships. If we should fail to manage effectively our relationships with our component suppliers or contract manufacturers, or if any of our suppliers or our manufacturers experience delays, disruptions, capacity constraints or quality control problems in their manufacturing operations, our ability to ship products to our customers could be delayed, and our competitive position and reputation could be harmed. Qualifying a new contract manufacturer and commencing volume production can be expensive and time consuming. If we are required to change or choose to change contract manufacturers, we may lose significant revenue and seriously damage our customer relationships. The potential continuation of a general economic slowdown may significantly reduce expenditures on information technology infrastructure. Unfavorable general economic conditions over the last 3 plus years have had a pronounced negative impact on information technology, or IT, spending. Demand for SAN products in the enterprise-class sector may continue to be adversely impacted as a result of the weakened economy and 19 because larger businesses have begun to focus on more efficiently using their existing IT infrastructure rather than making new equipment purchases. This in turn may decrease the demand for our SAN products. If there are further reductions in either domestic or international IT expenditure, or if IT expenditure does not increase from current levels, our revenues, operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Failure to manage expansion effectively could seriously harm our business, financial condition and prospects. Our ability to successfully implement our business plan, develop and offer products, and manage expansion in a rapidly evolving market requires a comprehensive and effective planning and management process. We continue to increase the scope of our operations domestically and internationally. In addition, in September 2003, we acquired Sanera and Nishan, which significantly increased the size of our operations. Our growth in business and relationships with customers and other third parties has placed, and will continue to place, a significant strain on management systems, resources, intercompany communication and coordination. As we grow, our failure to maintain and to continue to improve upon our operational, managerial and financial controls, reporting systems, processes and procedures, and/or our failure to continue to expand, train, and manage our work force worldwide, could seriously harm our business and financial results. If we fail to successfully develop the McDATA brand, our revenue may not grow. Our name is not widely recognized as a brand in the marketplace given our indirect sales model. We believe that establishing and maintaining the McDATA brand is a critical component in maintaining and developing strategic OEM, reseller and systems integrator relationships, and the importance of brand recognition will increase as the number of vendors of competitive products increases. Our failure to successfully develop our brand may prevent us from expanding our business and growing our revenue. Similarly, if we incur excessive expenses in an attempt to promote and maintain the McDATA brand, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. Undetected software or hardware defects in our products could result in loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products and could increase our costs or reduce our revenue. Our products may contain undetected software or hardware errors when first introduced or when new versions are released. Our products are complex, and we have from time to time detected errors in existing products. In addition, our products are combined with products from other vendors. As a result, should problems occur, it might be difficult to identify the source of the problem. These errors could result in a loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products, cause delays in delivering our products or meeting customer demands and would increase our costs, reduce our revenue and cause significant customer relations problems. Errors could also result in the need for us to upgrade existing products at customer locations, which would increase our costs or cause significant customer relations problems. We are a defendant in a class action lawsuit and we may be subject to further litigation in the future which could seriously harm our business. As more fully set forth in Note 13 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, we are a defendant in a consolidated securities class action know as In Re Initial Public Offering Securities Litigation (SDNY). We may become subject to additional class action litigation following a period of volatility in the market price of our common stock. Securities class action litigation results in substantial costs and diverts the attention of management and our resources and seriously harms our business, financial condition and results of operations. 20 Our change of fiscal year may not result in more predictable quarterly earnings. Historically, our quarterly operating results have depended on our performance in the later part of each calendar quarter, when a large percentage of our product shipments typically occur. This fluctuation has made consistent quarter-to-quarter performance and revenue forecasting difficult. We have adopted a number of measures to address this issue, including changing our fiscal year end to January 31, rather than December 31. We cannot be certain that changing our fiscal year or adopting other measures will result in product shipments occurring more evenly during each quarter, resulting in consistent quarter-to-quarter performance or improving revenue forecasts. Additional factors that affect us and which could cause our revenue and operating results to vary in future periods include: •the size, timing, terms and fluctuations of customer orders, particularly large orders from EMC, IBM or HDS; •pricing discussions late in a quarter and a limited capability to ramp shipments near the end of that quarter; •our ability to attain and maintain market acceptance of our products; •seasonal fluctuations in customer buying patterns; •the timing of the introduction of or enhancement to, products by us, our significant OEM or reseller customers or our competitors (e.g., transition to higher speed, higher port density and multi-protocol products); •our ability to obtain sufficient supplies of single- or limited-source components of our products; and •increased operating expenses, particularly in connection with our strategies to increase customer touch and purchase preference for our products or to invest in research and development. Our uneven sales pattern makes it difficult for our management to predict near-term demand and adjust manufacturing capacity. Further, our OEM and reseller partners may purchase certain of our products ahead of end-user customer demand, which could reduce subsequent purchases by those partners. Accordingly, if orders for our products vary substantially from the predicted demand, our ability to assemble, test and ship orders received in the last weeks and days of each quarter may be limited, which could seriously harm quarterly revenue or earnings. Moreover, an unexpected decline in revenue without a corresponding and timely reduction in expenses could intensify the impact of these factors on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The sales cycle for our products is long, and we may incur substantial non-recoverable expenses and devote significant resources to prospects that do not produce revenues in the foreseeable future or at all. Our OEMs, reseller and systems integrator customers typically conduct significant evaluation, testing, implementation and quality acceptance procedures before they begin to market and sell new solutions that include our products. This evaluation process is lengthy and may extend up to one year or more. This process is complex and may require significant sales, marketing and management efforts on our part. This process becomes more complex as we simultaneously qualify our products with multiple customers. As a result, we may expend significant resources to develop customer relationships before we recognize revenue, if any, from these relationships. Products that are not qualified by storage and system OEMs and resellers, may not gain market acceptance. Our OEM and reseller customers have multiple sources for products similar to ours, and as such, may not qualify our products for any number of reasons. 21 We may engage in future acquisitions that dilute our stockholders ownership and cause us to use cash, incur debt or assume contingent liabilities. As part of our strategy, from time to time we expect to review opportunities to buy other businesses or technologies that would complement our current products, expand the breadth of our markets or enhance our technical capabilities, or that may otherwise offer growth opportunities. We may buy businesses, products or technologies in the future. In the event of any future purchases, we could: •issue stock that would dilute our current stockholders' percentage ownership; •use cash, which may result in a reduction of our liquidity; •incur debt; or •assume liabilities. These purchases also involve numerous risks, including: •problems combining and integrating the purchased operations, technologies, personnel or products; •unanticipated costs; •diversion of management's attention from our core business; •adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; •risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and •potential loss of key employees of acquired organizations. We may not be able to successfully integrate any businesses, products, technologies or personnel that we might acquire in the future. In addition, technology acquisitions of start-up companies could result in one-time charges related to acquisition costs, severance costs, employee retention costs and in-process research and development. We may require, or could elect, to seek additional funding. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our rate of revenue growth, the timing and extent of spending to support development of new products and expansion of sales and marketing, the timing of new product introductions and enhancements to existing products, any acquisitions of businesses, and market acceptance of our products. With changes in operating and industry expectations, we could require, or could elect, to seek additional funding including accessing the equity and debt markets. If we become subject to unfair hiring claims, we could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves. Companies in our industry whose employees accept positions with competitors frequently claim that their competitors have engaged in unfair hiring practices or that employees have misappropriated confidential information or trade secrets. Because we often seek to hire individuals with relevant experience in our industry, we may be subject to claims of this kind or other claims relating to our employees in the future. We could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves or our employees against such claims, regardless of their merits. In addition, defending ourselves or our employees from such claims could divert the attention of our management away from our operations. Our products must comply with governmental regulation. In the United States, our products comply with various regulations and standards defined by the Federal Communications Commission and Underwriters Laboratories. Internationally, products that we 22 develop will be required to comply with standards established by authorities in various countries. In the last several years, the European Union (EU) has adopted a number of initiatives (WEEE, RoHS, etc.) related to equipment emissions, electronic waste, privacy of information and expanded consumer warranties. Failure to comply with existing or evolving industry standards or to obtain timely domestic or foreign regulatory approvals or certificates could seriously harm our business. Provisions in our charter documents, our rights agreement and Delaware law could prevent or delay a change in control of McDATA and may reduce the market price of our common stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and rights agreement may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other business combination that a stockholder may consider favorable. These provisions include: •authorizing the issuance of preferred stock without stockholder approval; •providing for a classified board of directors with staggered three year terms; •limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; •requiring super-majority voting for stockholder action by written consent; •establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors and for proposing other matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings; •prohibiting cumulative voting for the election of directors; •requiring super-majority voting to effect certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and by-laws; and •requiring parties to request board approval prior to acquiring 15% or more of the voting power of our common stock to avoid economic and voting dilution of their stock holdings. We are incorporated in Delaware and certain provisions of Delaware law may also discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us, which may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our stock price is volatile. The market price of our common stock has been volatile. Because we are a technology company, the market price of our common stock is usually subject to similar volatility and fluctuations that occur in our sector and to our competitors. This volatility is often unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of our company and, as a result, the price of our common stock could fall regardless of our performance. Risks Related to Our Relationship With EMC We have entered into agreements with EMC that, due to our prior parent-subsidiary relationship, may contain terms less beneficial to us than if they had been negotiated with unaffiliated third parties. In October 1997, and in connection with the reorganization of our business, we entered into certain agreements with EMC relating to our business relationship with EMC. In addition, we have entered into agreements with EMC relating to our relationship with EMC after the completion of our initial public offering in August 2000 and the distribution by EMC of our Class A common stock in February 2001. We have also entered into an OEM Purchase and License Agreement with EMC that governs EMC's purchases of our products and grants EMC rights to use, support and distribute software for use in connection with these products. The agreement does not provide for the purchase of a guaranteed minimum amount of product. These agreements were negotiated and made in the context of our prior parent-subsidiary relationship. As a result, some of these agreements may have 23 terms and conditions, including the terms of pricing, that are less beneficial to us than agreements negotiated with unaffiliated third parties. Sales and services revenue pursuant to these agreements with EMC represented approximately 47% of our revenue for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2005. In addition, in some instances, our ability to terminate these agreements is limited, which may prevent us from being able to negotiate more favorable terms with EMC or from entering into similar agreements with third parties. Provisions of our agreements with EMC relating to our relationship with EMC after the distribution of our Class A common stock to EMC's stockholders may prevent a change in control of our company. Under the terms of the May 2000 Master Confidential Disclosure and License Agreement between EMC and us, EMC has granted us a license to then existing EMC patents and we granted to EMC a license to then existing McDATA patents. If we are acquired, our acquirer will retain this license as long as our acquirer grants to EMC a license under all of the acquirer's patents for all products licensed under the agreement under the same terms as the license we have granted to EMC under the agreement. The potential loss of the license from EMC under this agreement could decrease our attractiveness as an acquisition target. We may be obligated to indemnify EMC if the distribution of our Class A common stock to EMC's stockholders was not tax-free. The May 2000 Tax Sharing Agreement that we have entered into with EMC obligates us to indemnify EMC for taxes relating to the failure of EMC's distribution to EMC's stockholders of our Class A common stock to be tax-free if that failure results from, among other things: •any act or omission by us that would cause the distribution to fail to qualify as a tax-free distribution under the Internal Revenue Code; •any act or omission by us that is inconsistent with any representation made to the Internal Revenue Service in connection with the request for a private letter ruling regarding the tax-free nature of the distribution by EMC of our Class A common stock indirectly held by it to its stockholders; •any acquisition by a third party of our stock or assets; or •any issuance by us of stock or any change in ownership of our stock. While the risk associated with the Company's obligations under the Tax Sharing Agreement should diminish over time, the Company's tax years covered by the agreement, as it relates to the Distribution, will remain open to examination by the IRS for at least three years from the date the returns for those years were filed. 24 