Item 1A. Risk FactorsIn addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors inherent in and affecting our business should be considered. The descriptions in this Form 10-K contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results and the timing of certain events may differ materially from the results and timing described in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those described below and in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and above in “Business.”Risks Relating to Our BusinessOur success will depend upon our ability to effectively implement our business model of creating or acquiring scientifically advanced technology, developing and manufacturing commercially viable products from such technology and successfully marketing and distributing such products. The failure to successfully execute any stage of this process could have a materially negative impact on our business and results of operations.We believe that our continued success will depend upon our ability to create or acquire scientifically advanced technology, apply our technology cost-effectively across product lines and markets, develop or acquire proprietary products, attract and retain skilled development personnel, obtain patent or other protection for our products, obtain required regulatory approvals, manufacture and successfully market our products either directly or through outside distributors and sales representatives and supply sufficient inventory to meet customer demand. There can be no assurance that we will realize financial benefit from our technology development and application efforts, that we will continue to be successful in identifying, developing and marketing new products or enhancing our existing products, or that products or technologies developed by others will not render our products or technologies non-competitive or obsolete. 5We have experienced losses from continuing operations and we expect that our operating results will fluctuate in the future.We have experienced losses from continuing operations in fiscal year 2013 and 2012. These losses have contributed to an accumulated deficit of approximately $24.4 million as of December 31, 2013. The report of our independent registered public accounting firm that accompanies our audited consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 contains an explanatory note regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. Our revenues have not been sufficient to cover our operating expenses, and we anticipate that we may sustain future losses from operations if revenues do not increase. Future fluctuations in operating results may also be caused by a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. Additional factors that could affect our future operating results include the following:•Availability of raw materials processed by the capital equipment we provide to our buyers, particularly the polysilicon used in the manufacture of the silicon wafers and solar cells;•Delays, postponements or cancellations of orders and shipments of our products, particularly in our solar equipment business where individual order sizes may be large and thus may represent a significant portion of annual revenue;•Loss of major customers, particularly as a result of customers changing their own product designs in such ways as reduce or eliminate the need for the manufacturing services we provide;•Reductions in the selling prices of our products and services as a result of competitive pressures;•Certain customers purchasing our solar equipment and need to raise capital or borrow money as they are not currently profitable. If capital and credit markets are again disrupted this may impact our ability to grow revenues;•Increased competition from current and future competitors, including competition resulting from services and products utilizing competing technologies;•Termination of existing grants with government agencies or delays in funding of grants awarded;•Problems experienced by our solar representatives through which we market, sell, and service certain foreign markets; and•We have had customers cancel contracts and forfeit their deposits. This may occur in the future and these deposits may not offset costs incurred until the inventory can be redeployed to other customers.If we are unable to reach and sustain profitability from our operations, we risk depleting our working capital balances and our business may not continue as a going concern. Even if we are profitable, we may require additional working capital to fund expected growth. Although future sales of assets or technology licenses may be pursued, such sales cannot be assured. In addition, we may need to raise additional capital, or arrange other sources of funds, in order to sustain our operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to raise such funds if they are required. Even if new financing were available, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms or terms that are acceptable to us.The photovoltaic ("PV") industry may not be able to compete successfully with fossil fuel-based power generation or other sources of renewable energy.The solar energy market is at a relatively early stage of development, in comparison to fossil fuel-based power generation and comprises a relatively small component of the total power generation market and competes with other sources of renewable energy, as well as fossil fuel-based power generation. If PV technology proves unsuitable for widespread adoption at economically attractive rates of return or if additional demand for solar manufacturing equipment fails to develop sufficiently or takes longer to develop than we anticipate, we may be unable to grow our business or generate sufficient net sales to sustain profitability. In addition, demand for solar manufacturing equipment in our targeted markets may develop to a lesser extent than we anticipate. Many factors may affect the viability of widespread adoption of PV technology and demand for solar manufacturing equipment, including but not limited to the following:•cost-effectiveness of solar energy compared to fossil fuel-based power generation and other renewable energy sources;•performance, reliability and availability of solar energy generated by PV systems compared to fossil fuel-based power generation and other non-solar renewable energy sources and products;•success of other renewable energy generation technologies, such as hydroelectric, tidal, wind, geothermal, solar thermal, concentrated PV, and biomass;•fluctuations in economic and market conditions that affect the viability of fossil fuel-based power generation and other renewable energy sources, such as increases or decreases in the price of natural gas, oil, coal and other fossil fuels;•fluctuations in capital expenditures by solar module manufactures which tend to decrease when the economy slows and when interest rates increase; and•availability and size of government subsidies and incentives to support the development of the solar energy industry.Reduced growth in or the reduction, elimination, or expiration of government subsidies, economic incentives, renewable energy targets and other support for on-grid solar electricity applications, could reduce demand and/or price levels for our solar 6manufacturing equipment, and limit our growth or lead to a reduction in our net sales, and adversely impact our operating results.Demand for solar manufacturing equipment, including on-grid applications, has historically been dependent in part on the availability and size of government subsidies and economic incentives. Currently, the cost of solar electricity exceeds the retail price of electricity in most major markets in the world. As a result, federal, state and local governmental bodies in many countries, most notably Germany, Italy, Spain, South Korea, Japan, China and the United States, have provided subsidies in the form of feed-in tariffs, rebates, tax write-offs and other incentives to end-users, distributors, systems integrators and/or manufacturers of PV products to promote the use of solar energy in on-grid applications and to reduce dependency on other forms of energy. Many of these government incentives have expired or are due to expire in time, phase out over time, cease upon exhaustion of the allocated funding and/or are subject to cancellation or non-renewal by the applicable authority. The reduction, expiration or elimination of relevant government subsidies or other economic incentives may result in the diminished competitiveness of solar energy relative to fossil fuel-based power generation and other renewable sources of energy, and adversely affect demand for solar manufacturing equipment or result in increased price competition, all of which could cause our sales and revenue to decline and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. Further, any government subsidies and economic incentives could be reduced or eliminated altogether at any time and for any reason. We believe that government subsidies and incentives could be eliminated in the near future. Also, relevant statutes or regulations may be found to be anti-competitive, unconstitutional or may be amended or discontinued for other reasons. Some government subsidies and incentives have been subject to challenge in courts in certain foreign jurisdictions. New proceedings challenging minimum price regulations or other government incentives in countries in which we conduct our business or in which our customers conduct business, may be initiated, and if successful, could cause a decrease in demand for our solar manufacturing products. Should photovoltaic technology be deemed unsuitable for global adoption, coupled with a potential lack of sufficient demand for solar modules or photovoltaic manufacturing equipment, we may experience an adverse effect on our revenues and related profits.Our ability to expand revenues and reach and sustain profitability is dependant, in large part, on the feasibility of widespread adoption of photovoltaic technology and world demand for solar modules and photovoltaic manufacturing equipment. Factors associated with the feasibility of widespread adoption of photovoltaic technology and world demand for solar modules and photovoltaic manufacturing equipment, the lack of which would limit the potential customers or expansion of our existing customer base, include, but are not limited to, the following:•Consolidation of equipment manufacturers in the marketplace thereby reducing competitive advantages while experiencing market pricing concessions;•Global nature of the competitive landscape and challenges associated with geographic diversity;•Position in the marketplace relative to competition and ability to scale upward as business opportunities are identified; and•Unforeseen fluctuations in financially viable markets that affect the ability of customers to secure required financing for capital expenditures at competive rates as well as vendor credit constraints and interruptions in materials flow throughout the supply chain.An increased global supply of photovoltaic modules has caused and may continue to cause structural imbalances in which global photovoltaic module supply exceeds demand, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operationsSolar manufacturers had installed production capacity that significantly exceeded global photovoltaic module demand during the past several years. We believe the solar industry will continue to experience periods of structural imbalance between supply and demand (i.e., where production capacity exceeds global demand) and could effect demand for photovoltaic manufacturing equipment. During the past several years, industry average sales prices per watt have declined significantly, as competitors reduced average sales prices to sell-through inventories worldwide. If our competitors reduce photovoltaic manufacturing equipment pricing to levels near or below their manufacturing costs, or are able to operate at minimal or negative operating margins for sustained periods of time, or if demand for photovoltaic manufacturing equipment does not grow sufficiently, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.Changes in the availability and price of used solar equipment and spare parts on the secondary / used equipment market could result in lower sales of new solar equipment manufactured by us along with increasing cost due to the inability to obtain economies of scale for purchasing raw materials which could, in turn, result in lower profits on sales of our products. 7The global economic slowdown within the solar industry has resulted in the closure of several photovoltaic manufactures along with current manufactures to scale down operations via liquidating manufacturing equipment. The liquidation of these photovoltaic manufactures has resulted in a secondary market of used manufacturing equipment being sold which is directly competing with our new solar equipment. Additionally, as we manufacture fewer units of equipment due to the excess used equipment market, we may experience higher raw material cost to build new equipment due to lower volume of production which negatively impacts our ability to obtain economies of scale when purchasing raw material components. Changes in the price of these raw material components are more likely to occur during times of economic volatility, can significantly increase the costs of production which could have a material negative effect on the profitability of our business, particularly if we, due to pricing considerations to compete with used equipment supplies, are unable to recover the increased costs from our customers.Our biomedical processing services, through our variable interest entity, N2 Biomedical LLC, are sold to OEM medical device manufacturers, primarily makers of orthopedic implants. Our ability to expand revenue and reach and sustain profitability depends substantially on the stability and growth of product lines that have incorporated our services into their product offering.Demand for our customer products may be impacted by recent reforms to the healthcare system in the United States which may adversely affect the demand for our services or impose direct or indirect additional costs. We may be limited in our ability to raise prices and pass additional costs to our customers. Our customers or their competitors may introduce new products that compete with existing product lines. If customers fail to adopt our services in these newer generation of products this may impair our ability to expand and maintain our revenue and reach and sustain profitability. Our ability to introduce new services is dependent upon medical device manufacturers adopting our technology and the devices being approved by appropriate governmental regulatory authorities, factors over which we have limited control.Disruptions in the capital and credit markets, such as those that occurred in connection with the national and world-wide financial crisis of the late 2000s, could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, or those of our customers or suppliers. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets could adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, or those of our customers and suppliers. Such disruptions could adversely affect our ability to draw on our bank credit facilities. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to liquidity needed to conduct or expand our businesses or conduct acquisitions or make other discretionary investments, as well as our ability to effectively hedge our currency or interest rates. These same conditions and disruptions may also adversely impact the capital needs of our customers and suppliers, which, in turn, could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. These may include project delays as well as longer project cycles from start to finish. Our business relies in part on a limited number of products, and unfavorable sales and product mix may adversely affect our revenues, operating results and cash flows.A significant portion of our net sales and revenues have historically been derived from sales of solar equipment module lines augmented by individual sales of simulators, assemblers, laminators and other module equipment which accounted for 33% and 56% of our net sales and revenues for 2013 and 2012, respectively. There can be no assurance that solar equipment module lines and individual equipment component sales will in fact increase or maintain their current level of sales. Circumstances that might have an effect on the sales pipeline and resulting levels of future sales of these products include factors beyond our control. Specifically, demand for solar products and the introduction of competing product offerings by other equipment manufacturers could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flow and future prospects. Our business relies in part on a limited number of customers, and unfavorable developments in relation to any major customer may adversely affect our revenues, operating results and cash flows.Sales and revenues from the delivery of biomedical services to two different customers accounted for 20% and 12% of total net sales and revenues for 2013. Follow on orders from these customers would be subject to a competitive bid process.Sales and revenues from the delivery of solar equipment and biomedical services to two different customers accounted for 12% and 14%, respectively, of total net sales and revenues for 2012. Follow on orders from these customers would be subject to a competitive bid process.Revenue recognition of solar turn-key module and cell lines may result in significant fluctuations in operating results in sequential reporting periods and year over year comparisons. While many of these sales of solar equipment are non-recurring, 8we have had instances of recurring sales to such customers and may have them in the future. If an unfavorable development were to occur with respect to any significant customer it would likely have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and future prospects.In order to mitigate potential exposure to risk associated with the collection of receivables, we often request that customers agree to pay an advance down payment upon execution of a purchase and sale agreement. The collection of these advances are critical to improving the cash flow. If however, customers do not accept contract terms that include the payment of advances, there may be a negative effect on our financial condition.Certain critical raw materials and sub-components purchased within our equipment build are frequently procured from a single-source or from a limited number of third party suppliers within the supply chain. A vendor's inability to deliver on a timely basis could result in manufacturing delays and our capability to meet scheduled ship dates to our customers based upon contractual obligations without incurring additional production costs. Our inability to procure the raw materials and sub-components based upon acceptable specifications and tolerances within required lead times could disrupt or impair our ability to manufacture our solar equipment or add increased costs to the manufacturing process. Certain critical raw materials and sub-components purchased within our equipment build are frequently procured from a single-source or from a limited number of third party suppliers. Accordingly, the inability of any of our key suppliers to deliver on a timely basis could disrupt our supply chain and adversely affect our operations. Furthermore, in certain instances several of our suppliers tend to be smaller companies that may not be able to maintain a required flow of materials should our volume requirements rapidly increase. Such conditions could find us unable to identify new suppliers able to meet our raw material specifications to be incorporated into our production process on commercially reasonable terms and in a timely manner.We sell our products and services against established competitors, and entities now operating in related markets may enter our markets. Some of our current and potential competitors have greater financial and technical resources than we do. Should we be unable to offer our customers products and services that represent attractive price versus value, our business would suffer.Although we believe that there are considerable barriers to entry into the markets we serve, including a significant investment in specialized capital equipment, product design and development, and the need for a staff with sophisticated scientific and technological knowledge, there can be no assurance that new or existing entities would not seek to enter our markets or that we would be able to compete effectively against such entities.The photovoltaic market is maturing due to the rapid growth of the industry. Our future success depends on our ability to sustain our business model.We currently develop, manufacture and market customized turn-key solutions for the solar industry, including individual pieces of manufacturing equipment and full turn-key lines for cell and module production and testing. As the photovoltaic market matures, there may be fewer opportunities for start up firms. Further, customer purchasing decisions such as when purchasing decisions are made or how managed, what types of services are combined with purchased equipment may evolve as the industry expands. For example, we may determine that it is in our best interest to alter our strategy to focus on individual pieces of manufacturing equipment (as opposed to turn key solutions). We may have to offer vendor financing programs. Potentially re-engineering our focus toward individual pieces of manufacturing equipment and away from turn-key solutions may result in identification of non-productive assets, associated write-downs and/or reserves along with excess capacity and infrastructure costs.If we are unable to develop and introduce new products successfully or to achieve market acceptance of our new products, our operating results would be adversely affected.We compete in markets characterized by technological advances and improvements in manufacturing efficiencies. Our ability to operate profitably depends in large part on our timely access to, or development of, technological advances, and on our ability to use those advances to improve existing products, develop new products and manufacture those products efficiently. There can be no assurance that we will realize financial benefit from our development programs, will continue to be successful in identifying, developing and marketing new products or enhancing our existing products, or that products or technologies developed by others will not render our products or technologies non-competitive or obsolete. The failure to introduce new or enhanced products on a timely and cost competitive basis, or to attain market acceptance for commercial products, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. If we are not successful in protecting our intellectual property rights, our ability to compete may be harmed. 9We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protections as well as confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies and processes. For example, we enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and business partners, and control access to and distribution of our proprietary information. We have been issued 12 United States patents and have 12 pending patent applications. However, despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, we cannot assure that:•The steps we take to prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property will be successful;•Any existing or future patents will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented;•Any pending patent applications or future applications will be approved;•Others will not independently develop similar products or processes to ours or design around our patents; or•Any of the measures described above would provide meaningful protection.A failure by us to meaningfully protect our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and ability to compete. In addition, effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain countries.From time to time we may be subject to lawsuits by other parties seeking to enforce their intellectual property rights. Any litigation could result in the expenditure of significant financial resources and the diversion of management’s time and resources. In addition, litigation in which we are accused of infringement may have an impact on prospective customers, cause product delays, require us to develop non-infringing technology, make substantial payments to third parties or enter into royalty or license agreements, which may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If a successful claim of infringement were made against us and we could not develop non-infringing technology or license the infringed or similar technology on a timely and cost-effective basis, we may be forced to stop selling current products or abandon new products under development and we could be exposed to legal actions by our customers.We depend on others, particularly on agencies of the United States government, for funding our research and development effort.Most of our research and development work is funded by agencies of the United States government either directly or via their contractors. Any United States government budgetary cuts may materially adversely effect our outside funding for research and development. Loss of outside funding may materially adversely affect our ability to further develop our proprietary technologies and to apply these technologies to our current products and products under development. If we are unable to maintain our current level of such funding for any reason, we would need to generate funds for such research from other sources, reduce our research and development effort or increase our internal funding for research and development. An increase in internally funded research and development would have a negative impact on our profitability.Additionally, the process of bidding for, obtaining, retaining and performing United States government contracts is subject to a large number of United States government regulations and oversight requirements. Compliance with these government regulations requires extensive record keeping and the maintenance of complex policies and procedures relating to all aspects of our business, as well as to work performed for us by any subcontractors. Any failure to comply with applicable regulations, or to require our subcontractors so to comply, could result in a variety of adverse consequences, ranging from remedial requirements to termination of contracts, reimbursement of fees, reduction of fees on a going forward basis and prohibition from obtaining future United States government contracts. While we believe that we have in place systems and personnel to ensure compliance with all United States government regulations relating to contracting, we cannot assure that we will at all times be in compliance or that any failure to comply will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.The U.S. government has certain rights relating to our intellectual property.The United States government retains the right to obtain a patent on any invention developed under government contracts as to which we do not seek and obtain a patent, and may require us to grant a third party license of such invention if steps to achieving practical application of the invention have not been taken. The United States government also retains a non-exclusive, royalty-free, non-transferable license to all technology developed under government contracts, whether or not patented, for government use, including use by other parties to United States government contracts. Furthermore, our United States government contracts prohibit us from granting exclusive rights to use or sell any inventions unless the grantee agrees that any product using the invention will be manufactured substantially in the United States.Our success depends on our ability to hire and retain qualified technical personnel, and if we are unable to do so, our product development efforts and customer relations will suffer. 10Our products require sophisticated manufacturing, research and development, marketing and sales, and technical support. Our success depends on our ability to attract, train and retain qualified technical personnel in each of these areas. Competition for personnel in all of these areas is intense and we may not be able to hire or retain sufficient personnel to achieve our goals or support the anticipated growth in our business. The market for the highly trained personnel we require is very competitive, due to the limited number of people available with the necessary technical skills and understanding of our products and technology. If we fail to hire and retain qualified personnel, our product development efforts and customer relations will suffer.We are subject to environmental laws and other legal requirements that have the potential to subject us to substantial liability and increase our costs of doing business.Our properties and business operations are subject to a wide variety of federal, state, and local environmental, health and safety laws and other legal requirements, including those relating to the storage, use, discharge and disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous substances used in our manufacturing processes. We cannot assure that these legal requirements will not impose on us the need for additional capital expenditures or other requirements. If we fail to obtain required permits or otherwise fail to operate within these or future legal requirements, we may be required to pay substantial penalties, suspend our operations or make costly changes to our manufacturing processes or facilities. Although we believe that we are in compliance and have complied with all applicable legal requirements, we may also be required to incur additional costs to comply with current or future legal requirements.New regulations related to "conflict minerals" may force us to incur additional expenses and face reputational challenges. In August 2012, the SEC adopted its final rule to implement Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act regarding disclosure and reporting requirements for companies who use "conflict" minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries in their products. The first reporting period is calendar year 2013 with the first report due by May 31, 2014. Depending on our conflict minerals source designation, we may be able to delay our first report for up to four additional years. These new requirements could adversely affect our ability to source related minerals and metals and increase our related costs. We may face difficulties and increased expense associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the existence and source of any conflict minerals used in our products. Also, because our supply chain is complex, and some suppliers may be unwilling to share related confidential information regarding the source of their products, we may face reputational challenges if we are unable to sufficiently verify the existence or origins of the subject minerals and metals.Our international sales subject us to risks that could adversely affect our revenue and operating results.Sales to customers located outside the U.S. have historically accounted for a significant percentage of our revenue (approximately 34% in 2013) and we anticipate that such sales will continue to be a significant percentage of our revenue. International sales involve a variety of risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to risks related to:•Reliance on strategic alliance partners such as representatives and licensees;•Compliance with changing foreign regulatory requirements and tax laws;•Reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries;•Longer payment cycles to collect accounts receivable in some countries;•Increased costs or reduced revenues as a result of movements in foreign currency exchange rates;•Political instability;•Economic downturns in international markets;•Strengthening of the United States dollar may negatively impact our foreign customers ability to purchase our products and services.•Trade barriers such as export requirements, tariffs, taxes and other restrictions and expenses, which could increase the prices of our products and make our product offering less competitive in some countries; and•Changing restrictions imposed by United States export laws. Failure to successfully address these risks and uncertainties could adversely affect our international sales, which could in turn have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The global nature of our revenue subjects us to the legal systems of the international countries in which we offer and sell our products. We offer and sell our products internationally which accounted for 34% and 53% of net sales and revenue for 2013 and 2012, respectively. As such, we are or could become subject to the laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which we conduct 11business. Laws and regulations include but are not limited to health and safety and environmental regulations, which are specific to the countries in which we sell our products. Accordingly we design our equipment to ensure their compliance with all applicable known standards. Continued compliance to satisfy ever changing legal and regulatory requirements, may cause us to incur additional costs leading to margin erosion. Accordingly, foreign laws and regulations which are applicable to us may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flow and future prospects. As a result of the laws and regulations of the foreign jurisdictions in which we carry on business, we may experience difficulty in enforcing customer purchase and sale agreements or certain provisions included therein including but not limited to product warranty which is normally provided to our customers. The inability to enforce our contractual rights in foreign jurisdictions may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flow and future prospects. The use of our medical related products, as well as our photovoltaic module manufacturing equipment, entails a risk of physical injury; the defense of claims arising from such risk may exceed our insurance coverage and distract our management.Through our variable interest entity, N2 Biomedical LLC, the use of orthopedic and other medical devices may entail a risk of physical injury to patients. To the extent we fail to meet the manufacturers’ specifications in performing our biomedical processing services, we may be exposed to potential product liability and other damage claims. We have had cases brought against us as a supplier of services with other defendants over the alleged manufacture and sale of defective heart valves. In the past, we have settled a case alleging that our catheter contributed to a patient’s death in Ohio. Further, in 2010 we concluded a voluntary recall of certain hemodialysis catheters as the manufacturer of record due to a vendor molding issue. While no claims of product liability or other damages have been initiated against us due to the recall, this does not preclude such an event occurring as we have recalled only unused inventory held by distributors and hospitals. Even though we have completed the sale of our catheter product line to Bard, we are still the manufacturer of record of catheters implanted in patients, we are still responsible for those devices that we manufactured and are still liable for any recalls of any of these devices in the future. Furthermore, the use of our photovoltaic module manufacturing equipment could result in operator injury. We maintain product liability and umbrella insurance coverage; however, there can be no assurance that any product liability claim assessed against us would not exceed our insurance coverage, or that insurance coverage would continue to be available. While we typically obtain agreements of indemnity from manufacturers of biomedical products for which we provide manufacturing services, there can be no assurance that any such indemnity agreements will be enforceable or that such manufacturers will have adequate funds to meet their obligations under such agreements. The cost of defending a product liability, negligence or other action, and/or assessment of damages in excess of insurance coverage, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.As we seek to expand our business globally, growth opportunities may be impacted by greater political, economic and social uncertainty and the continuing and accelerating globalization of businesses could significantly change the dynamics of our competition, customer base and product offerings.Our efforts to grow our businesses depend to a large extent upon access to, and our success in developing market share and operating profitably in additional geographic markets including but not limited to South America, Middle East, China, Africa and India. In some cases, these countries or regions have greater political and economic volatility, greater vulnerability to infrastructure and labor disruptions and differing local customer product preferences and requirements than our other markets. Operating and seeking to expand business in a number of different regions and countries exposes us to multiple and potentially conflicting cultural practices, business practices and legal and regulatory requirements that are subject to change, including those related to tariffs and trade barriers, investments, property ownership rights, taxation and repatriation of earnings and advanced technologies. Expanding business operations globally also increases exposure to currency fluctuations which can materially affect our financial results. As these emerging geographic markets become more important to us, our competitors are also seeking to expand their production capacities and sales in these same markets. While we maintain a positive corporate image and our brand is widely recognized and valued in its traditional markets, the brand is less well known in some emerging markets which could impede our efforts to successfully compete in these markets. Although we are taking measures to adapt to these changing circumstances, our reputation and/or business results could be negatively affected should these efforts prove unsuccessful.We may incur material costs related to extended product warranties, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.From time to time, we have offered an extended warranty period to our customers for our manufactured equipment. These extended warranties may lengthen the life of the equipment along with incurring additional cost to maintain the customers' equipment which may negatively impact profitability. Photovoltaic manufacturers are increasingly requiring their capital equipment vendors to offer extended warranty periods for their capital equipment purchases. Warranty claims may range from individual components being replaced to complicated electronic and software PC boards being rebuilt. We cannot assure you that costs associated with providing extended product warranties will not will not exceed amounts accrued for in our consolidated financial statements. 12Risks Related to Our CompanyOur Company is subject to significant influence by principal stockholder.Roger G. Little, our founder and Chairman of the Board, controls approximately 33% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Mr. Little is in a position to exert significant influence over actions which require stockholder approval and generally to direct our affairs, including the election of directors, potential acquisitions and sales or otherwise preventing or delaying changes in control of our Company that may be otherwise viewed as beneficial by shareholders other than Mr. Little.We do not pay dividends and we may not pay dividends in the future.We have paid no cash dividends since our inception. We anticipate retaining any future earnings for reinvestment in operations and do not anticipate that dividends will be paid in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, the return on investment should be expected to depend on changes in the market price of our common stock. The market price for our common stock has been volatile and future volatility could cause the value of investments in our Company to fluctuate.Our stock price has experienced significant volatility. We expect that uncertainty regarding demand for our products will cause our stock price to continue to be volatile. In addition, the value of your investment could decline due to the impact of any of the following factors, among others, upon the market price of our common stock:•Overall economic conditions and general market volatility;•Changes in investment analysts’ estimates of our revenues and operating results;•Our failure to meet investment analysts’ performance expectations; and•Changes in market valuations of other companies in the alternative energy or biomedical industries.In addition, many of the risks described elsewhere in this section could materially and adversely affect our stock price, as discussed in those risk factors. U.S. financial markets have recently experienced substantial price and volume volatility. Fluctuations such as these have affected and are likely to continue to affect the market price of our common stock.We were recently delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, which could result in a number of negative implications.In July 2013, our common stock was delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market. As a result, there could be a number of negative implications, including further reductions in our stock price, reduced liquidity in the common stock as a result of the loss of market efficiencies associated with a national securities exchange, the loss of federal preemption of state securities laws, the potential loss of confidence by suppliers, customers and employees, as well as the loss of analyst coverage and institutional investor interest, fewer business development opportunities and greater difficulty in obtaining financing.The consolidation of N2 Biomedical LLC, a variable interest entity, could make it more difficult to understand the operating performance of our company and create operational risks for our company. Under current applicable accounting rules, we are required to consolidate the operations of N2 Biomedical LLC (“N2 Bio”), a variable interest entity or “VIE” because we are the primary beneficiary of the VIE. This consolidation could make it difficult for an investor to differentiate the assets, liabilities, and results of operations of our company apart from the assets, liabilities, and results of operations of the VIE. The assets of N2 Bio are not available to meet our liquidity requirements and similarly we generally have not guaranteed or assumed any obligation for repayment of the liabilities of the VIE.Some of the requirements of Sarbanes-Oxley affect us as a small company disproportionately, and we may not be able to comply in a timely manner despite substantial effort and expense.The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposed many new requirements on public companies, the most significant of which involves the documentation, testing and reporting of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting.We are required to report on our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We have documented and tested our internal controls in 2013 and 2012 and this effort involved substantial time and expense. Based on our evaluation under the framework in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission, management of our Company concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2013. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control 13over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.Our credit agreements subject us to various restrictions, which may limit our ability to pursue business opportunities.Our credit agreements subject us to various restrictions on our ability to engage in certain activities without the prior written consent of the bank, including, among other things, our ability to:•Dispose of or encumber assets, other than in the ordinary course of business,•Incur additional indebtedness,•Merge or consolidate with other entities, or acquire other businesses, and•Make investments.The agreements also subject us to various financial and other covenants with which we must comply on an ongoing or periodic basis. As long as any commitment remains outstanding under the credit agreements, we must comply with a financial covenant, whereby we must maintain a minimum cash balance and availability line of credit. If we violate these or any other covenants, any outstanding debt under these agreements could become immediately due and payable, the bank could proceed against any collateral securing indebtedness and our ability to borrow funds in the future may be restricted or eliminated. These restrictions may also limit our ability to pursue business opportunities or strategies that we would otherwise consider to be in the best interests of the company.Our credit agreement with Silicon Valley Bank is due to expire on April 30, 2014 and our variable interest entity's (N2 Biomedical LLC) credit agreement with Middlesex Savings Bank is due to expire on September 18, 2014, which may adversely affect our working capital.If our credit agreements with Silicon Valley Bank and Middlesex Savings Bank are not renewed, we would have to pay down the credit facilities balance at that time, reducing our cash and cash equivalents balance.We recognize revenue in accordance with various complex accounting standards, and changes in circumstances or interpretations may lead to accounting adjustments. Our revenue recognition policies involve application of various complex accounting standards, including accounting guidance associated with revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables. Our compliance with such accounting standards often involves management's judgment regarding whether the criteria set forth in the standards have been met such that we can recognize as revenue the amounts that we receive as payment for our products or services. We base our judgments on assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. However, these judgments, or the assumptions underlying them, may change over time. Changes in circumstances or third-party guidance could cause our judgment to change with respect to our interpretations of these complex standards, and transactions recorded, including revenue recognized, for one or more prior reporting periods, which could be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.