Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors inherent in and affecting our business should be considered. The descriptions in this Form 10-K contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results and the timing of certain events may differ materially from the results and timing describe d in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those described below and in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and above in “Business.” 6 Risks Relating to Our Business Our success will depend upon our ability to effectively implement our business model of creating or acquiring scientifically advanced technology, developing and manufacturing commercially viable products from such technology and successfully marketing and distributing such products. The failure to successfully execute any stage of this process could have a materially negative impact on our business and results of operations. We believe that our continued success will depend upon our ability to create or acquire scientifically advanced technology, apply our technology cost-effectively across product lines and markets, develop or acquire proprietary products, attract and retain skilled development personnel, obtain patent or other protection for our products, obtain required regulatory approvals, manufacture and successfully market our products either directly or through outside distributors and sales representatives and supply sufficient inventory to meet customer demand. There can be no assurance that we will realize financial benefit from our technology deve lopment and application efforts, that we will continue to be successful in identifying, developing and marketing new products or enhancing our existing products, or that products or technologies developed by others will not render our products or technologies non-competitive or obsolete. We have experienced losses from operations, before the gain on sale of assets and gain on termination of contract, and we expect that our operating results will fluctuate in the future. We have experienced losses from operations before non-recurring gains in fiscal year 2010. These losses have contributed to an accumulated deficit of approximately $12.6 million as of December 31, 2010. Our revenues have not been sufficient to cover our operating expenses, and we anticipate that we may sustain future losses from operations if revenues do not increase. Future fluctuations in operating results may also be caused by a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. Additional factors that could affect our future operating results include the following: • Availability of raw materials processed by the capital equipment we provide to our buyers, particularly the polysilicon used in the manufacture of the silicon wafers and solar cells;• < font style="font-family:inherit;font-size:10pt;">Delays, postponements or cancellations of orders and shipments of our products, particularly in our solar equipment and solar systems businesses where individual order sizes may be large and thus may represent a significant portion of annual revenue;• Changes in our receipt of license fees, milestone payments and royalty payments relating to our intellectual property;• Loss of major customers, particularly as a result of customers changing their own product designs in such ways as reduce or eliminate the need for the manufacturing services we provide;• Reductions in th e selling prices of our products and services as a result of competitive pressures;• Certain customers purchasing our solar equipment and optoelectronic services need to raise capital or borrow money as they are not currently profitable. If capital and credit markets are again disrupted this may impact our ability to grow revenues;• Increased competition from current and future competitors, including competition resulting from services and products utilizing competing technologies;• Termination of existing grants with government agencies or delays in funding of grants awarded;• Problems experienced by our solar representatives through which we market, sell, and service certain foreign markets; and• We have had customers cancel contracts and forfeit their deposits. This may occur in the future and these deposits may not offset costs incurred until the inventory can be redeployed to other customers. If we are unable to reach and sustain profitability from our operations, we risk depleting our working capital balances and our business may not continue as a going concern. Even if we are profitable, we may require additional working capital to meet expected growth. Although future sales of assets or technology licenses may be pursued, such sales cannot be assured. In addition, we may need to raise additional capital, or arrange other sources of funds, in order to sustain our operations. There can be no assur ance that we will be able to raise such funds if they are required. Even if new financing were available, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms or terms that are acceptable to us. Should photovoltaic technology be deemed unsuitable for global adoption, coupled with a potential lack of sufficient demand for solar modules or photovoltaic manufacturing equipment, we may experience an adverse effect on our revenues and related profits. Our ability to expand revenues and reach and sustain profitability is dependant, in large part, on the feasibility of widespread adoption of photovoltaic technology and world demand for solar modules and photovoltaic manufacturing equipment. Factors 7 associated with the feasibility of widespread adoption of photovoltaic technology and world demand for s olar modules and photovoltaic manufacturing equipment, the lack of which would limit the potential customers or expansion of our existing customer base, include, but are not limited to, the following: • Consolidation of equipment manufacturers in the marketplace thereby reducing competitive advantages while experiencing market pricing concessions;• Global nature of the competitive landscape and challenges associated with geographic diversity;• Performance and reliability of photovoltaic systems and thin film technology compared to conventional and other non-solar renewable energy sources and products;• Availability and substance of government subsidies, incentives and renewable portfolio standards to support the development of the solar energy industry;• Position in the marketplace relative to competition and ability to scale upward as business opportunities are identified; and• Unforeseen fluctuations in financially viable markets that affect the ability of customers to secure required financing for capital expenditures at competive rates as well as vendor credit constraints and interruptions in materials flow throughout the U.S. supply chain. Our optoelectronics subsidiary, Spire Semiconductor, has had difficulty in sustaining its revenue growth. It has high fixed costs with relatively low variable costs. If it cannot increase its volume, it may never reach profitability. • The growth of our optoelectronics business depends upon growth in demand for compound semiconductor wafers from manufacturers of microwave and optoelectronic circuits and sensors that, in turn, are used in diverse biomedical, telecommunications and aerospace products. Should these end-use markets not experience anticipated levels of growth and, in the case of telecommunications uses, experience a recovery from currently depressed business levels, our optoelectronics business could be adversely affected.• A significant amount of revenue in 2010 was from a Federal government contract to develop solar concentrator cell technology, which ended in 2010. If we cannot commercialize this technology, we will need to find replacement customers for our services. Our biomedical processing services are sold to OEM medical device manufacturers, primarily makers of orthopedic implants. Our ability to expand revenue and reach and sustain profitability depends substantially on the stability and growth of product lines that have incorporated our services into their product offering. Demand for our customer products may be impacted by recent reforms to the healthcare system in the United States which may adversely affect the demand for our services or impose direct or indirect additional costs. We may be limited in our ability to raise prices and pass additional costs to our customers. Our customers or their competitors may introduce new products that compete with existing product lines. If customers fail to adopt our services in these newer generation of products this may impair our ability to expand and maintain our revenue and reach and sustain profitability. Our ability to introduce new services is dependent upon medical device manufacturers adopting our technology and the devices being approved by appropriate governmental regulatory authorities, factors over which we have lim ited control. The growth of our solar systems business depends on the success of the project development or construction activities associated with a particular contract and the associated risk that projects under development may not receive the required permits or unforeseen delays in the scheduling of construction. Either event may lead to cost overruns and margin erosion. The costs of development and construction of solar powered facilities involves a number of risks. Potential upfront out-of-pocket costs may be incurred for preliminary engineering, design work permitting, professional fees, and other expenses before we can determine whether a project is economically feasible. Several factors in developing the success of a particular project include: • Negotiation and execution of acceptable engineering, procurement and construction agreements;• Obtaining required governmental permits and approvals, including, but not limited to, the right to interconnect to the electric grid;• Timely payment of customer deposits to ensure a positive cash flow by deliverable;• Facilitating the obtaining of the required construction financing; and• On schedule implementation and satisfactory sign-off related to completion of construction. 8 We may enter into fixed price Engineering, Procurement and Construction ("EPC") contracts whereby we act as the project manager for our customers as it relates to the installation of the solar power systems. Major identified costs are estimated at the time of execution of the EPC contract and are the basis for the pricing model to our customers. As these cost estimates are preliminary in nature they may or may not be covered by contracts between us or the subcontractors, suppliers and other parties to the project. Additionally, we require qualified, licensed subcontractors to install our systems and shortages in the labor pool could significantly delay a project or otherwise increase our costs. Should project overruns occur and we are unable to pass these along to our customer, we may not achieve our projected margins. Although the disruptions in the capital and credit markets related to the recent national and world-wide financial crisis have improved, any re-occurrence could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, or those of our customers or suppliers. The recent disruptions in the capital and credit markets or the re-occurrence of those disruptions could adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, or those of our customers and suppliers. Such disruptions could adversely affect our ability to draw on our bank credit facilities. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to liquidity needed to conduct or expand our businesses or conduct acquisitions or make other discretionary investments, as well as our ability to effectively hedge our currency or interest rates. These same conditions and disruptions may also adversely impact the capital needs of our customers and suppliers, which, in turn, could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. These may include project delays as well as longer project cycles from start to finish. Our business relies in part on a limited number of products, and unfavorable sales and product mix may adversely affect our revenues, operating results and cash flows. A significant portion of our net sales and revenues have historically been derived from sales of solar equipment module lines augmented by individual sales of simulators, assemblers, laminators and other module equipment which accounted for 42% and 47% of our net sales and revenues for 2010 and 2009, respectively. There can be no assurance that solar equipment module lines and individual equipment component sales will in fact increase or maintain their current level of sales. Circumstances that might have an effect on the sales pipeline and resulting levels of future sales of these products include factors beyond our control. Specifically, demand for solar products and the introduction of competing product offerings by other equipment manufacturers could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flow and future prospects. Our business relies in part on a limited number of customers, and unfavorable developments in relation to any major customer may adversely affect our revenues, operating results and cash flows. Revenues from the delivery of a solar equipment module line and recurring revenues from the sale of solar cell materials to the same customer accounted for 7% and 21%, respectively, of total net sales and revenues for 2010. Revenues from the delivery of a solar equipment cell line and solar equipment module line to another customer account for 10% and 5%, respectively, of total net sales and revenues for 2010. Follow on orders from these customers would be subject to a competitive bid process. Revenues from the customer acceptance of a solar equipment cell line and a solar equipment module line to two different customers accounted for 17% and 15%, respectively, of total net sales and revenue for 2009 and recurring revenue from the sale of solar cell materials to another customer accounted for 18% of total net sales and revenue during the same period. Follow on orders from these customers would be subject to a competitive bid process. Revenue recognition of solar cell materials, turn-key module and cell lines may result in significant fluctuations in operating results in sequential reporting periods and year over year comparisons. While many of these sales of solar equipment are non-recurring, we have had instances of recurring sales to such customers and may have them in the future.&nb sp; While the sales of solar cell materials has been recurring, the contract related to this revenue has been changed from a definite quantity to a indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity contract after the final 20% of definite delivery commitments are delivered in 2011. If an unfavorable development were to occur with respect to any significant customer it would likely have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and future prospects. In order to mitigate potential exposure to risk associated with the collection of receivables, we often request that customers agree to pay an advance down payment upon execution of a purchase and sale agreement. The collection of these advances are critical to i mproving the cash flow. If however, customers do not accept contract terms that include the payment of advances, there may be a negative effect on our financial condition.9 Certain critical raw materials and sub-components purchased within our equipment build are frequently procured from a single-source or from a limited number of third party suppliers within the supply chain. A vendor's inability to deliver on a timely basis could result in manufacturing delays and our capability to meet scheduled ship dates to our customers based upon contractual obligations without incurring additional production costs. Our inability to procure the raw materials and sub-components based upon acceptable specifications and tolerances within required lead times could disrupt or impair our ability to manufacture our solar equipment or add increased costs to the manufacturing process. Certain critical raw materials and sub-components purchased within our equipment build are frequently procured from a single-source or from a limited number of third party suppliers. Accordingly, the inability of any of our key suppliers to deliver on a timely basis could disrupt our supply chain and adversely affect our operations. Furthermore, in certain instances several of our suppliers tend to be smaller companies that may not be able to maintain a required flow of materials should our volume requirements rapidly increase. Such conditions could find us unable to identify new suppliers able to meet our raw material specifications to be incorporated into our production process on commercially reasonable terms and in a timely manner. Our solar business relies in part on our arrangem ents with UNICOR, and unfavorable developments in relation to this customer may adversely affect our revenues, operating results and cash flows going forward. We have signed a contract and amended it multiple times to deliver approximately $36.2 million in solar cells to UNICOR over a twenty-five month period, commencing in the first quarter of 2009, with three months remaining (80% of revenue was recognized at December 31, 2010). We have arranged a purchase agreement with a third party vendor to supply cells for the UNICOR contract. If our vendor fails to produce to specifications or quantities, we may need to replace this vendor and there can be no assurance that such a replace ment contract will be on similar or favorable pricing terms. UNICOR has required modifications to the contract over purchase price and quantity purchased resulting in a decrease in contract value from $53.9 million to $36.2 million. The last amendment changed the contract from a definite quantity to a indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity contract after the final 20% of definite delivery commitments are delivered in the first quarter of 2011. While UNICOR can place delivery orders after the definite delivery commitments of solar cells are completed in 2011, there are no guaranteed minimums and there is no guarantee that they will place any additional delivery orders. We have an additional contract where we are currently installing equipment to a turn-key module line at a second Federal prison facility.&n bsp; If UNICOR is not successful in the production and sale of photovoltaic modules, this may adversely impact our equipment business unless we are able to develop new customers to replace UNICOR. We sell our products and services against established competitors, and entities now operating in related markets may enter our markets. Some of our current and potential competitors have greater financial and technical resources than we do. Should we be unable to offer our customers products and services that represent attractive price versus value, our business would suffer. Although we believe that there are considerable barriers to entry into the markets we serve, including a significant investment in specialized capital equipment, product design and development, and the need for a staff with sophisticated scientific and technological knowledge, there can be no assurance that new or existing entities would not seek to enter our markets or that we would be able to compete effectively against such entities. In our optoelectronics business, our manufacturing services may compete against the internal manufacturing capabilities of our customers. Although we believe that we offer significant advantages in terms of timely response, reduced total cost and reduced capital investment over the captive fabrication facilities of our customers, customers may elect to maintain their internal capabilities despite economic incentives to outsource these services from us. The photovoltaic market is maturing due to the rapid growth of the industry. Our future success depends on our ability to sustain our business model. We currently develop, manufacture and market customized turn-key solutions for the solar industry, includ ing individual pieces of manufacturing equipment and full turn-key lines for cell and module production and testing. As the photovoltaic market matures, there may be fewer opportunities for start up firms. Further, customer purchasing decisions such as when purchasing decisions are made or how managed, what types of services are combined with purchased equipment may evolve as the industry expands. For example, we may determine that it is in our best interest to alter our strategy to focus on individual pieces of manufacturing equipment (as opposed to turn key solutions). We may have to offer vendor financing programs. Potentially re-engineering our focus toward individual pieces of manufacturing equipment and away from turn-key solutions may result in identification of non-productive assets, associated write-downs and/or reserves along with excess capacity and infrastructure costs.&n bsp;10 If we are unable to develop and introduce new products successfully or to achieve market acceptance of our new products, our operating results would be adversely affected. We compete in markets characterized by technological advances and improvements in manufacturing efficiencies. Our ability to operate profitably depends in large part on our timely access to, or development of, technological advances, and on our ability to use those advances to improve existing products, develop new products and manufacture those products efficiently. There can be no assurance that we will realize financial benefit from our development programs, will continue to be successful in identifying, developing and marketing new products or enhancing our existing products, or that products or technologies developed by others will not render our products or technologies non-competitive or obsolete. The failure to introduce new or enhanced products on a timely and cost competitive basis, or to attain market acceptance for commercial prod ucts, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. If we are not successful in protecting our intellectual property rights, our ability to compete may be harmed. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protections as well as confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies and processes. For example, we enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and business partners, and control access to and distribution of our proprietary information. We have been issued 24 United States patents, 2 foreign patents and have a number of pending patent applications. However, despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, we cannot assure that: • The steps we take to prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property will be successful; table>• Any existing or future patents will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented;• Any pending p atent applications or future applications will be approved;• Others will not independently develop similar products or processes to ours or design around our patents; or• Any of the measures described above would provide meaningful protection. A failure by us to meaningfully protect our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and ability to compete. In addition, effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain countries. From time to time we m ay be subject to lawsuits by other parties seeking to enforce their intellectual property rights. Any litigation could result in the expenditure of significant financial resources and the diversion of management’s time and resources. In addition, litigation in which we are accused of infringement may have an impact on prospective customers, cause product delays, require us to develop non-infringing technology, make substantial payments to third parties or enter into royalty or license agreements, which may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If a successful claim of infringement were made against us and we could not develop non-infringing technology or license the infringed or similar technology on a timely and cost-effective basis, we may be forced to stop selling current products or abandon new products under development and we could be exposed to legal actions by our customers. We depend on others, particularly on agencies of the United States government, for funding our research and development effort. Most of our research and development work is funded by agencies of the United States government either directly or via their contractors. Loss of outside funding may materially adversely affect our ability to further develop our proprietary technologies and to apply these technologies to our current products and products under development. If we are unable to maintain our current level of such funding for any reason, we would need to generate funds for such research from o ther sources, reduce our research and development effort or increase our internal funding for research and development. An increase in internally funded research and development would have a negative impact on our profitability. Additionally, the process of bidding for, obtaining, retaining and performing United States government contracts is subject to a large number of United States government regulations and oversight requirements. Compliance with these government regulations requires extensive record keeping and the maintenance of complex policies and procedures relating to all aspects of our business, as well as to work performed for us by any subcontractors. Any failure to comply with applicable regulations, or to require our subcontractors so to comply, could re sult in a variety of adverse consequences, ranging from remedial requirements to termination of contracts, reimbursement of fees, reduction of fees on a going forward basis and prohibition from obtaining future United States government contracts. While we believe that we have in place systems and personnel to ensure compliance with all United States government regulations relating to contracting, we cannot assure that we will at all times be in compliance or that any failure to comply will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. 11 The U.S. government has certain rights relating to our intellectual property. The United States government retains the right to obtain a patent on any invention developed under government contracts as to which we do not seek and obtain a patent, and may require us to grant a third party license of such invention if steps to achieving practica l application of the invention have not been taken. The United States government also retains a non-exclusive, royalty-free, non-transferable license to all technology developed under government contracts, whether or not patented, for government use, including use by other parties to United States government contracts. Furthermore, our United States government contracts prohibit us from granting exclusive rights to use or sell any inventions unless the grantee agrees that any product using the invention will be manufactured substantially in the United States. Our success depends on our ability to hire and retain qualified technical personnel, and if we are unable to do so, our product development efforts and customer relations will suffer.< /font> Our products require sophisticated manufacturing, research and development, marketing and sales, and technical support. Our success depends on our ability to attract, train and retain qualified technical personnel in each of these areas. Competition for personnel in all of these areas is intense and we may not be able to hire or retain sufficient personnel to achieve our goals or support the anticipated growth in our business. The market for the highly trained personnel we require is very competitive, due to the limited number of people available with the necessary technical skills and understanding of our products and technology. If we fail to hire and retain qualified personnel, our product development efforts and customer relations will suffer. We are subject to environmental laws and other legal requirements that have the potential to subject us to substantial liability and increase our costs of doing business. Our properties and business operations are subject to a wide variety of federal, state, and local environmental, health and safety laws and other legal requirements, including those relating to the storage, use, discharge and disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous substances used in our manufacturing processes. We cannot assure that these legal requirem ents will not impose on us the need for additional capital expenditures or other requirements. If we fail to obtain required permits or otherwise fail to operate within these or future legal requirements, we may be required to pay substantial penalties, suspend our operations or make costly changes to our manufacturing processes or facilities. Although we believe that we are in compliance and have complied with all applicable legal requirements, we may also be required to incur additional costs to comply with current or future legal requirements. Our international sales subject us to risks that could adversely affect our revenue and operating results. Sales to customers located outside the U.S. have historically accounted for a significant percentage of our revenue (approximately 39% in 2010) and we anticipate that such sales will continue to be a significant percentage of our revenue. International sales involve a variety of risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to risks related to: • Reliance on strategic alliance partners such as representatives and licensees;• Compliance with changing foreign regulatory requirements and tax laws;< /tr>• Reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries;• Longer payment cycles to collect accounts receivable in some countries;• Increased costs or reduced revenues as a result of movements in foreign currency exchange rates;• Political instability;• Economic downturns in international markets;• Strengthening of the United States dollar may negatively impact our foreign customers ability to purchase our products and services.• Trade barriers such as export requirements, tariffs, taxes and other restrictions and expenses, which could increase the prices of our products and make our product offering less competitive in some countries; and• Changing restrictions imposed by United States export laws. Failure to successfully address these risks and uncertainties could adversely affect our international sales, which could in turn have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Global nature of our revenue subjects us to the legal systems of the international countries in which we offer and sell our products. We offer and sell our products internationally which accounted for 39% and 59% of net sales and revenue for 2010 and 2009, respectively. As such, we are or could become subject to the laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which we conduct 12 business. Laws and regulations include but are not limited to health and safety and environmental regulations, which are specific to the countries in which we sell our products. Accordingly we design our equipment to ensure their compliance with all applicable known standards. Continued compliance to satisfy ever changing legal and regulatory requirements, may cause us to incur additional costs leading to margin erosion. Accordingly, foreign laws and regulations which are applicable to us may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flow and future prospects. As a result of the laws and regulations of the foreign jurisdictions in which we carry on business, we may experience difficulty in enforcing customer purchase and sale agreements or certain provisions included therein including but not limited to product warranty which is normally provided to our customers. The inability to enforce our contractual rights in foreign jurisdictions may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flow and future prospects. The use of our medical related products (including our former catheter products), as we ll as our photovoltaic module manufacturing equipment, entails a risk of physical injury; the defense of claims arising from such risk may exceed our insurance coverage and distract our management. The use of orthopedic and other medical devices may entail a risk of physical injury to patients. To the extent we fail to meet the manufacturers’ specifications in performing our biomedical processing services, we may be exposed to potential product liability and other damage claims. We have had cases brought against us as a supplier of services with other defendants over the alleged manufacture and sale of defective heart valves. In the past, we have settled a case alleging that our catheter contributed to a patient’s death in Ohio. Furthe r, in 2010 we concluded a voluntary recall of certain hemodialysis catheters as the manufacturer of record due to a vendor molding issue. While no claims of product liability or other damages have been initiated against us due to the recall, this does not preclude such an event occurring as we have recalled only unused inventory held by distributors and hospitals. Even though we have completed the sale of our catheter product line to Bard, we are still the manufacturer of record of catheters implanted in patients, we are still responsible for those devices that we manufactured and are still liable for any recalls of any of these devices in the future. Furthermore, the use of our photovoltaic module manufacturing equipment could result in operator injury. We maintain product liability and umbrella insurance coverage; however, there can be no assurance that any product liability claim assessed against us would not exceed our insurance coverage, or that insurance coverage would continue to be availa ble. While we typically obtain agreements of indemnity from manufacturers of biomedical products for which we provide manufacturing services, there can be no assurance that any such indemnity agreements will be enforceable or that such manufacturers will have adequate funds to meet their obligations under such agreements. The cost of defending a product liability, negligence or other action, and/or assessment of damages in excess of insurance coverage, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. Risks Related to Our Company We may not be able to maintain our listing on the Nasdaq Global Market, which would adversely affect the price and liquidity of our common stock. Our stock is currently listed on the Nasdaq Global Market. In order to maintain our listing on the Nasdaq Global Market, we must satisfy Nasdaq continued listing requirements. Under Nasdaq rules, we will maintain our listing so long as we meet, among other requirements, one of the following three requirements: • stockholders’ equity of at least $10 million and market value of the common stock held by non-affiliates of at least $5 million (Marketplace Rule 5450(b)(1));• market value of listed securities of at least $50 million and market value of the common stock held by non-affiliates of at least $15 million (Marketplace Rule 5450(b)(2)); or• total assets and total revenue of at least $50 million each for the most recently completed fiscal year or two of the three most recently completed fiscal years and market value of the common stock held by non-affiliates of at least $15 million (Marketpla ce Rule 5450(b)(3)). As of the filing date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we are meeting only Marketplace Rule 5450(b)(3), as we have total assets and total revenue of at least $50 million for two of the three most recently completed fiscal years (2009 and 2008) and the market value of the common stock held by non-affiliates is greater than $15 million (approximately $33 million as of March 1, 2011). There is no assurance that in the future we wi ll continue to satisfy Nasdaq continued listing requirements. At various times 13 in the past, we have received deficiency notices from Nasdaq and have been able to regain compliance prior to delisting, but we cannot assure you that we will always be able to regain or maintain compliance with Nasdaq continued listing requirements. If we fail to maintain compliance with these rules and our common stock is delisted from the Nasdaq Global Market, there could be a number of negative implications, including reduced liquidity in the common stock as a result of the loss of market efficiencies associated with the Nasdaq Global Market, the loss of federal preemption of state securities laws, the potential loss of confidence by suppliers, customers and employees, as well as the loss of analyst coverage and institutional investor interest, fewer business development opportunities and greater difficulty in obtaining financing. Our Company is subject to control by principal stockholder. Roger G. Little, our founder, Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President, controls approximately 26% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Mr. Little is in a position to exert significant influence over actions which require stockholder approval and generally to direct our affairs, including the election of directors, potential acquisitions and sales or otherwise preventing or delaying changes in control of our Company that may be otherwise viewed as beneficial by shareholders other than Mr. Little. We do not pay dividends and we may not pay dividends in the future. We have paid no cash dividends since our inception. We anticipate retaining any future earnings for reinvestment in operations and do not anticipate that dividends will be paid in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, the return on investment should be expected to depend on changes in the market price of our common stock. < font style="font-family:inherit;font-size:10pt;font-style:italic;font-weight:bold;">The market price for our common stock has been volatile and future volatility could cause the value of investments in our Company to fluctuate. Our stock price has experienced significant volatility. While our revenues have increased, we expect that uncertainty regarding demand for our products will cause our stock price to continue to be volatile. In addition, the value of your investment could decline due to the impact of any of the following factors, among others, upon the market price of our common stock: • Overall economic conditions and general market volatility;• Changes in investment analysts’ estimates of our revenues and operating results; • Our failure to meet investment analysts’ performance expectations; and• Ch anges in market valuations of other companies in the alternative energy, semiconductor or biomedical industries. In addition, many of the risks described elsewhere in this section could materially and adversely affect our stock price, as discussed in those risk factors. U.S. financial markets have recently experienced substantial price and volume volatility. Fluctuations such as these have affected and are likely to continue to affect the market price of our common stock. Some of the requiremen ts of Sarbanes-Oxley affect us as a small company disproportionately, and we may not be able to comply in a timely manner despite substantial effort and expense. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposed many new requirements on public companies, the most significant of which involves the documentation, testing and reporting of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We are required to report on our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in this Annual Report on F orm 10-K. We have documented and tested our internal controls in 2010 and 2009 and this effort involved substantial time and expense. We have identified a material weakness and several other significant deficiencies, as discussed below, from our internal assessment and our independent registered public accounting firm has also identified items in connection with its annual audit of our consolidated financial statements. Based on this evaluation, management concluded that the following material weakness in internal control over financial reporting existed as of December 31, 2010. We had inadequate personnel with appropriate tax knowledge to prepare the deferred tax analysis and related disclosures timely at year end. We also identified several other significant defic iencies that did not rise to the level of material weakness. As a result of such material weakness and significant deficiencies, issues related to accounting for income taxes existed in our internal preliminary 2010 fiscal year consolidated financial statements. For more detailed information see “Item 9A. Controls and Procedures.” We are working to address the issues raised by such material weakness and significant deficiencies, but we may not be successful in remediating them in a timely manner.14 Our credit agreements with Silicon Valley Bank subjects us to various restrictions, which may limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. Our credit agreements with Silicon Valley Bank subjects us to various restrictions on our ability to engage in certain activities without the prior written consent of the bank, including, among other things, our ability to: • Dispose of or encumber assets, other than in the ordinary course of business,• Incur additional indebtedness,• Merge or consolidate with other entities, or acquire other businesses, and• Make investments. The agreements also subject us to various financial and other covenants with which we must comply on an ongoing or periodic basis. For example under our equipment and revolving line of credit, as long as any commitment remains outstanding under the facility, we must comply with a financial covenant, whereby we must maintain a minimum cash balance and availability line of credit. If we v iolate these or any other covenant, any outstanding debt under these agreements could become immediately due and payable, the bank could proceed against any collateral securing indebtedness and our ability to borrow funds in the future may be restricted or eliminated. These restrictions may also limit our ability to pursue business opportunities or strategies that we would otherwise consider to be in the best interests of the company. We recognize revenue in accordance with various complex accounting standards, and changes in circumstances or interpretations may lead to accounting adjustments. Our revenue recognition policies involve application of various complex accounting standards, including accounting guidance associated with revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables. Our compliance with such accounting standards often involves management's judgment regarding whether the criteria set forth in the standards have been met such that we can recognize as revenue the amounts that we receive as payment for our products or services. We base our judgments on assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. However, these judgments, or the assumptions underlying them, may change over time. In addition, the new guidance on the treatment of complex accounting matters may issue. Changes in circumstances or third-party guidance could cause our judgement to change with respect to our interpretations of these complex standards, and transactions recorded, including revenue recogn ized, for one or more prior reporting periods, which could be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. div>