ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS - ---------------------- In addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors inherent in and affecting our business should be considered. The descriptions in this Form 10-K contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results and the timing of certain events may differ materially from the results and timing described in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those described below and in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and above in "Business." 6 RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS ------------------------------ OUR SUCCESS WILL DEPEND UPON OUR ABILITY TO EFFECTIVELY IMPLEMENT OUR BUSINESS MODEL OF CREATING OR ACQUIRING SCIENTIFICALLY ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY, DEVELOPING AND MANUFACTURING COMMERCIALLY VIABLE PRODUCTS FROM SUCH TECHNOLOGY AND SUCCESSFULLY MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTING SUCH PRODUCTS. THE FAILURE TO SUCCESSFULLY EXECUTE ANY STAGE OF THIS PROCESS COULD HAVE A MATERIALLY NEGATIVE IMPACT ON OUR BUSINESS AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. We believe that our continued success will depend upon our ability to create or acquire scientifically advanced technology, apply our technology cost-effectively across product lines and markets, develop or acquire proprietary products, attract and retain skilled development personnel, obtain patent or other protection for our products, obtain required regulatory approvals, manufacture and successfully market our products either directly or through outside distributors and sales representatives and supply sufficient inventory to meet customer demand. There can be no assurance that we will realize financial benefit from our technology development and application efforts, that we will continue to be successful in identifying, developing and marketing new products or enhancing our existing products, or that products or technologies developed by others will not render our products or technologies non-competitive or obsolete. WE HAVE EXPERIENCED LOSSES FROM OPERATIONS, BEFORE THE SALE OF CERTAIN TECHNOLOGY LICENSES AND GAIN ON TERMINATION OF CONTRACT, AND WE EXPECT THAT OUR OPERATING RESULTS WILL FLUCTUATE IN THE FUTURE. We have experienced losses from operations before non-recurring gains in each of the past two fiscal years. These losses have contributed to an accumulated deficit of approximately $6.9 million as of December 31, 2008. Our revenues have not been sufficient to cover our operating expenses, and we anticipate that we may sustain future losses from operations if revenues do not increase. Future fluctuations in operating results may also be caused by a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. Additional factors that could affect our future operating results include the following: o Availability of raw materials processed by the capital equipment we provide to our buyers, particularly the polysilicon used in the manufacture of the silicon wafers and solar cells; o Delays, postponements or cancellations of orders and shipments of our products, particularly in our solar equipment and solar systems businesses where individual order sizes may be large and thus may represent a significant portion of annual revenue; o Changes in our receipt of license fees, milestone payments and royalty payments relating to our intellectual property; o Loss of major customers, particularly as a result of customers changing their own product designs in such ways as reduce or eliminate the need for the manufacturing services we provide; o Reductions in the selling prices of our products and services as a result of competitive pressures; o Variation in capacity, capacity utilization and manufacturing yields within the third party medical contract manufacturing service providers that constitute the supply chain for our biomedical products that, in turn, cause variation in our ability to timely ship our products; o Increased competition from current and future competitors, including competition resulting from services and products utilizing competing technologies; o Variation in the timing of customer orders and inventory levels at our customers, particularly within our biomedical manufacturing services business; o Termination of existing grants with government agencies or delays in funding of grants awarded; o Delays in introducing and gaining physician acceptance for new products and product improvements, particularly in our biomedical products business; and o Disruption in the distributor sales channels by which we bring our biomedical products to market. If we are unable to reach and sustain profitability from our operations, we risk depleting our working capital balances and our business may not continue as a going concern. Even if we are profitable, we may require additional working capital to meet expected growth. Although future sales of assets or technology licenses may be pursued, such sales cannot be assured. In addition, we may need to raise additional capital, or arrange other sources of funds, in order to sustain our operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to raise such funds if they are required. Even if new financing were available, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms or terms that are acceptable to us. OUR ABILITY TO EXPAND REVENUE AND SUSTAIN PROFITABILITY DEPENDS SUBSTANTIALLY ON THE STABILITY AND GROWTH OF THE VARIOUS MARKETS FOR OUR PRODUCTS AND SERVICES. SHOULD WE BE UNABLE TO EXPAND OUR REVENUE, OUR ABILITY TO REACH AND SUSTAIN PROFITABILITY WOULD BE IMPAIRED. 7 o The world demand for photovoltaic manufacturing equipment depends on sustained expansion in the demand for decentralized power sources, especially in developing countries, and on domestic and foreign government funding of initiatives to invest in solar energy as an alternative to the burning of fossil fuels and other energy production methods. There can be no assurance that government funding for such initiatives will be available, or that solar energy will prove to be a cost-effective alternative to other energy sources and thus gain acceptance where traditional energy sources continue to be available. Should demand for solar photovoltaic power sources not increase, demand for new photovoltaic manufacturing equipment would not materialize and our business would be adversely affected. o Most of our research and development revenues are generated by contracts with the United States government. There can be no assurance that the United States government will fund our research and development projects at the same level as it has in the past. Should federal research funding priorities change, and should we be unable to adjust our research focus to reflect the shift, our business could be adversely affected. o The growth of our biomedical products business depends on increased physician acceptance of our hemodialysis catheter products, our ability to manage the production of higher unit volumes of catheter products and our ability to effectively distribute those products. Should our hemodialysis catheters not gain market acceptance or should we not be able to meet demand for our products, our biomedical products business could be adversely affected. o The growth of our biomedical services business depends upon our customers' ability to serve demand for the end-use items, such as orthopedic prostheses, on which our services are performed and thus is substantially beyond our control. o Our ability to expand our biomedical business depends upon our ability to introduce new products and services. The marketing of new biomedical products requires pre-approval of government regulatory authorities, the completion of which can be lengthy and more costly than originally planned. o The growth of our optoelectronics business depends upon growth in demand for compound semiconductor wafers from manufacturers of microwave and optoelectronic circuits and sensors that, in turn, are used in diverse biomedical, telecommunications and aerospace products. Should these end-use markets not experience anticipated levels of growth and, in the case of telecommunications uses, experience a recovery from currently depressed business levels, our optoelectronics business could be adversely affected. o We have made a substantial investment in equipment at Spire Semiconductor in anticipation of future revenues under its agreement with Principia Lightworks. Subsequent to December 31, 2008, the parties have terminated this agreement by mutual consent. Spire Semiconductor is planning to redirect the use of equipment to manufacture solar concentrator cells. If we are not successful in manufacturing solar concentrator cells, we will have significant unutilized capacity and may not recover our investment in the equipment. DISRUPTIONS IN THE CAPITAL AND CREDIT MARKETS RELATED TO THE CURRENT NATIONAL AND WORLD-WIDE FINANCIAL CRISIS, WHICH MAY CONTINUE OR INTENSIFY, COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, CASH FLOWS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION, OR THOSE OF OUR CUSTOMERS OR SUPPLIERS. The current disruptions in the capital and credit markets may continue indefinitely or intensify, and adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, or those of our customers and suppliers. These disruptions could adversely affect our ability to draw on our bank credit facilities. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to liquidity needed to conduct or expand our businesses or conduct acquisitions or make other discretionary investments, as well as our ability to effectively hedge our currency or interest rates. These same conditions and disruptions may also adversely impact the capital needs of our customers and suppliers, which, in turn, could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 8 OUR BUSINESS RELIES IN PART ON A LIMITED NUMBER OF CUSTOMERS, AND UNFAVORABLE DEVELOPMENTS IN RELATION TO A MAJOR CUSTOMER MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR REVENUES, OPERATING RESULTS AND CASH FLOWS. We did not have any customers that accounted for more than 10% of consolidated net sales and revenues during the year ended December 31, 2008. One customer accounted for more than 10% of consolidated net sales and revenues in 2007 (approximately 15%). In addition, we have had such customers in other years and may have them again in the future. If an unfavorable development were to occur with respect to any significant customer it would likely have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and future prospects. WE SELL OUR PRODUCTS AND SERVICES AGAINST ESTABLISHED COMPETITORS, AND ENTITIES NOW OPERATING IN RELATED MARKETS MAY ENTER OUR MARKETS. SOME OF OUR CURRENT AND POTENTIAL COMPETITORS HAVE GREATER FINANCIAL AND TECHNICAL RESOURCES THAN WE DO. SHOULD WE BE UNABLE TO OFFER OUR CUSTOMERS PRODUCTS AND SERVICES THAT REPRESENT ATTRACTIVE PRICE VERSUS VALUE, OUR BUSINESS WOULD SUFFER. Although we believe that there are considerable barriers to entry into the markets we serve, including a significant investment in specialized capital equipment, product design and development, and the need for a staff with sophisticated scientific and technological knowledge, there can be no assurance that new or existing entities would not seek to enter our markets or that we would be able to compete effectively against such entities. o In our biomedical products business, our hemodialysis catheter products directly compete against the already established product offerings of larger competitors. Although we believe that our catheter products offer significant advantages, widespread physician acceptance of these products in preference to the more established products of competitors cannot be assured. o In our optoelectronics business, our manufacturing services may compete against the internal manufacturing capabilities of our customers. Although we believe that we offer significant advantages in terms of timely response, reduced total cost and reduced capital investment over the captive fabrication facilities of our customers, customers may elect to maintain their internal capabilities despite economic incentives to outsource these services from us. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO DEVELOP AND INTRODUCE NEW PRODUCTS SUCCESSFULLY OR TO ACHIEVE MARKET ACCEPTANCE OF OUR NEW PRODUCTS, OUR OPERATING RESULTS WOULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. We compete in markets characterized by technological advances and improvements in manufacturing efficiencies. Our ability to operate profitably depends in large part on our timely access to, or development of, technological advances, and on our ability to use those advances to improve existing products, develop new products and manufacture those products efficiently. There can be no assurance that we will realize financial benefit from our development programs, will continue to be successful in identifying, developing and marketing new products or enhancing our existing products, or that products or technologies developed by others will not render our products or technologies non-competitive or obsolete. The failure to introduce new or enhanced products on a timely and cost competitive basis, or to attain market acceptance for commercial products, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. IF WE ARE NOT SUCCESSFUL IN PROTECTING OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS, OUR ABILITY TO COMPETE MAY BE HARMED. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protections as well as confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies and processes. For example, we enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and business partners, and control access to and distribution of our proprietary information. We have been issued 41 United States patents, one of which is jointly owned, and have a number of pending patent applications. However, despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, we cannot assure that: o The steps we take to prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property will be successful; o Any existing or future patents will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented; o Any pending patent applications or future applications will be approved; o Others will not independently develop similar products or processes to ours or design around our patents; or o Any of the measures described above would provide meaningful protection. 9 A failure by us to meaningfully protect our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and ability to compete. In addition, effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain countries. From time to time we may be subject to lawsuits by other parties seeking to enforce their intellectual property rights. Any litigation could result in the expenditure of significant financial resources and the diversion of management's time and resources. In addition, litigation in which we are accused of infringement may have an impact on prospective customers, cause product delays, require us to develop non-infringing technology, make substantial payments to third parties or enter into royalty or license agreements, which may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If a successful claim of infringement were made against us and we could not develop non-infringing technology or license the infringed or similar technology on a timely and cost-effective basis, we may be forced to stop selling current products or abandon new products under development and we could be exposed to legal actions by our customers. WE DEPEND ON OTHERS, PARTICULARLY ON AGENCIES OF THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT, FOR FUNDING OUR RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EFFORT. Most of our research and development work is funded by agencies of the United States government either directly or via their contractors. Loss of outside funding may materially adversely affect our ability to further develop our proprietary technologies and to apply these technologies to our current products and products under development. If we are unable to maintain our current level of such funding for any reason, we would need to generate funds for such research from other sources, reduce our research and development effort or increase our internal funding for research and development. An increase in internally funded research and development would have a negative impact on our profitability. Additionally, the process of bidding for, obtaining, retaining and performing United States government contracts is subject to a large number of United States government regulations and oversight requirements. Compliance with these government regulations requires extensive record keeping and the maintenance of complex policies and procedures relating to all aspects of our business, as well as to work performed for us by any subcontractors. Any failure to comply with applicable regulations, or to require our subcontractors so to comply, could result in a variety of adverse consequences, ranging from remedial requirements to termination of contracts, reimbursement of fees, reduction of fees on a going forward basis and prohibition from obtaining future United States government contracts. While we believe that we have in place systems and personnel to ensure compliance with all United States government regulations relating to contracting, we cannot assure that we will at all times be in compliance or that any failure to comply will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. THE U.S. GOVERNMENT HAS CERTAIN RIGHTS RELATING TO OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY. The United States government retains the right to obtain a patent on any invention developed under government contracts as to which we do not seek and obtain a patent, and may require us to grant a third party license of such invention if steps to achieving practical application of the invention have not been taken. The United States government also retains a non-exclusive, royalty-free, non-transferable license to all technology developed under government contracts, whether or not patented, for government use, including use by other parties to United States government contracts. Furthermore, our United States government contracts prohibit us from granting exclusive rights to use or sell any inventions unless the grantee agrees that any product using the invention will be manufactured substantially in the United States. WE DEPEND ON THIRD-PARTY CONTRACTORS TO MANUFACTURE SUBSTANTIALLY ALL OF OUR CURRENT BIOMEDICAL PRODUCTS. We depend on third-party subcontractors in the U.S. for the manufacturing, assembly and packaging of our biomedical products. Any difficulty in obtaining parts or services from these subcontractors could affect our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries to customers, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our customer relationships, business and financial results. Several significant risks are associated with reliance on third-party subcontractors, including: o The lack of assured product supply and the potential for product shortages; o Reduced control over inventory located at contractors' premises; o Limited control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields and production costs; o Direct control over product quality; o The temporary or permanent unavailability of, or delays in obtaining, access to key process technologies; and 10 o Dependence on single source contractors to provide critical services. OUR SUCCESS DEPENDS ON OUR ABILITY TO HIRE AND RETAIN QUALIFIED TECHNICAL PERSONNEL, AND IF WE ARE UNABLE TO DO SO, OUR PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT EFFORTS AND CUSTOMER RELATIONS WILL SUFFER. Our products require sophisticated manufacturing, research and development, marketing and sales, and technical support. Our success depends on our ability to attract, train and retain qualified technical personnel in each of these areas. Competition for personnel in all of these areas is intense and we may not be able to hire or retain sufficient personnel to achieve our goals or support the anticipated growth in our business. The market for the highly trained personnel we require is very competitive, due to the limited number of people available with the necessary technical skills and understanding of our products and technology. If we fail to hire and retain qualified personnel, our product development efforts and customer relations will suffer. WE ARE SUBJECT TO ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS AND OTHER LEGAL REQUIREMENTS THAT HAVE THE POTENTIAL TO SUBJECT US TO SUBSTANTIAL LIABILITY AND INCREASE OUR COSTS OF DOING BUSINESS. Our properties and business operations are subject to a wide variety of federal, state, and local environmental, health and safety laws and other legal requirements, including those relating to the storage, use, discharge and disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous substances used in our manufacturing processes. We cannot assure that these legal requirements will not impose on us the need for additional capital expenditures or other requirements. If we fail to obtain required permits or otherwise fail to operate within these or future legal requirements, we may be required to pay substantial penalties, suspend our operations or make costly changes to our manufacturing processes or facilities. Although we believe that we are in compliance and have complied with all applicable legal requirements, we may also be required to incur additional costs to comply with current or future legal requirements. OUR INTERNATIONAL SALES SUBJECT US TO RISKS THAT COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR REVENUE AND OPERATING RESULTS. Sales to customers located outside the U.S. have historically accounted for a significant percentage of our revenue (approximately 56% in 2008) and we anticipate that such sales will continue to be a significant percentage of our revenue. International sales involve a variety of risks and uncertainties, including risks related to: o Reliance on strategic alliance partners such as representatives and licensees; o Compliance with changing foreign regulatory requirements and tax laws; o Reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; o Longer payment cycles to collect accounts receivable in some countries; o Increased costs or reduced revenues as a result of movements in foreign currency exchange rates; o Political instability; o Economic downturns in international markets; and o Changing restrictions imposed by United States export laws. Failure to successfully address these risks and uncertainties could adversely affect our international sales, which could in turn have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. THE USE OF OUR CATHETER AND OTHER MEDICAL RELATED PRODUCTS ENTAILS A RISK OF PHYSICAL INJURY; THE DEFENSE OF CLAIMS ARISING FROM SUCH RISK MAY EXCEED OUR INSURANCE COVERAGE AND DISTRACT OUR MANAGEMENT. The use of orthopedic and other medical devices may entail a risk of physical injury to patients. To the extent we have been involved in the design and manufacturing of these products, we may be exposed to potential product liability and other damage claims. Furthermore, the use of our photovoltaic module manufacturing equipment could result in operator injury. We have had cases brought against us in which it was alleged that we have been a party to the manufacture and sale of defective heart valves with other defendants. In the past, we have settled a case alleging that our catheter contributed to a patient's death in Ohio. No other claims of product liability or other damages have been initiated against us. We maintain product liability and umbrella insurance coverage; however, there can be no assurance that any product liability claim assessed against us would not exceed our insurance coverage, or that insurance coverage would continue to be available. While we typically obtain agreements of indemnity from manufacturers of biomedical products for which we provide manufacturing services, there can be no assurance that any such indemnity agreements will be enforceable or that such manufacturers will have adequate funds to meet their obligations under such agreements. The cost of defending a product 11 liability, negligence or other action, and/or assessment of damages in excess of insurance coverage, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMPANY ---------------------------- WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO MAINTAIN OUR LISTING ON THE NASDAQ GLOBAL MARKET, WHICH WOULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE PRICE AND LIQUIDITY OF OUR COMMON STOCK. Our stock is currently listed on the Nasdaq Global Market. On December 1, 2008, we received a letter from The Nasdaq Stock Market ("Nasdaq") advising that for the prior ten (10) consecutive trading days, the market value of our listed securities was below the minimum $50,000,000 requirement for continued inclusion on The Nasdaq Global Market under Marketplace Rule 4450(b)(1)(A) (the "Rule"). Nasdaq also noted that at the time we did not comply with Marketplace Rule 4450(b)(1)(B), which alternatively requires total assets and total revenue of at least $50,000,000 each for the most recently completed fiscal year or two of the three most recently completed fiscal years. On March 3, 2009, we received a Staff Determination Letter from Nasdaq indicating that we have not regained compliance with the Rule as the market value of our common stock has remained below the minimum $50,000,000 required for continued inclusion on The Nasdaq Global Market. Accordingly, our common stock is subject to delisting from the Nasdaq Global Market. We have requested a hearing before a Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel to review the Staff Determination. The request for a hearing will stay the Staff Determination and, as a result, our common stock will remain listed on The Nasdaq Global Market until the Panel issues its decision after the hearing. There can be no assurance the Panel will grant our request for continued listing. However, we expect to regain compliance with alternative continued listing requirements upon the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K as we believe we now meet both (i) Marketplace Rule 4450(b)(1)(B), which alternatively requires total assets and total revenue of at least $50,000,000 each for the most recently completed fiscal year or two of the three most recently completed fiscal years and (ii) Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(3), which alternatively requires stockholders' equity of at least $10,000,000. Even if we are able to regain compliance with the alternative continued listing requirements, there is no assurance that in the future we will continue to satisfy Nasdaq continued listing requirements. At various times in the past, we have received other deficiency notices from Nasdaq and have been able to regain compliance prior to delisting, but, as noted above, we cannot assure you that we will always be able to regain or maintain compliance with Nasdaq continued listing requirements. If we fail to maintain compliance with these rules and our common stock is delisted from the Nasdaq Global Market, there could be a number of negative implications, including reduced liquidity in the common stock as a result of the loss of market efficiencies associated with the Nasdaq Global Market, the loss of federal preemption of state securities laws, the potential loss of confidence by suppliers, customers and employees, as well as the loss of analyst coverage and institutional investor interest, fewer business development opportunities and greater difficulty in obtaining financing. OUR COMPANY IS SUBJECT TO CONTROL BY PRINCIPAL STOCKHOLDER. Roger G. Little, our founder, Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President, controls approximately 26% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Mr. Little is in a position to exert significant influence over actions which require stockholder approval and generally to direct our affairs, including the election of directors, potential acquisitions and sales or otherwise preventing or delaying changes in control of our Company that may be otherwise viewed as beneficial by shareholders other than Mr. Little. WE DO NOT PAY DIVIDENDS AND WE MAY NOT PAY DIVIDENDS IN THE FUTURE. We have paid no cash dividends since our inception. We anticipate retaining any future earnings for reinvestment in operations and do not anticipate that dividends will be paid in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, the return on investment should be expected to depend on changes in the market price of our common stock. THE MARKET PRICE FOR OUR COMMON STOCK HAS BEEN VOLATILE AND FUTURE VOLATILITY COULD CAUSE THE VALUE OF INVESTMENTS IN OUR COMPANY TO FLUCTUATE. Our stock price has experienced significant volatility. While our revenues have increased since 2000, we expect that uncertainty regarding demand for our products will cause our stock price to continue to be volatile. In addition, the value of your investment could decline due to the impact of any of the following factors, among others, upon the market price of our common stock: 12 o Overall economic conditions and general market volatility; o Changes in investment analysts' estimates of our revenues and operating results; o Our failure to meet investment analysts' performance expectations; and o Changes in market valuations of other companies in the alternative energy, semiconductor or biomedical industries. In addition, many of the risks described elsewhere in this section could materially and adversely affect our stock price, as discussed in those risk factors. U.S. financial markets have recently experienced substantial price and volume volatility. Fluctuations such as these have affected and are likely to continue to affect the market price of our common stock. OUR JOINT VENTURE TRANSACTION WITH GLORIA SOLAR MAY NOT REALIZE ALL OF ITS INTENDED BENEFITS On September 4, 2007, we closed a contractual relationship with Gloria Solar. Pursuant to this transaction, among other things, we formed a joint venture, owned 55% by Gloria Solar and 45% by us, for the purpose of pursuing the solar photovoltaic systems market within the United States. The joint venture will design, market, sell and manage the installation of systems for the generation of electrical power by solar photovoltaic means in primarily commercial/industrial and utility segments of such market (the "JV Systems Business"). In connection with the formation of the joint venture, (i) we contributed to the joint venture our assets primarily relating to the JV Systems Business, including certain intellectual property and know-how, access to information technology assets and relationships, relationships with current and previous customers, contract backlog and project opportunities, certain registered trademarks, and employment relationships with staff members and (ii) Gloria Solar contributed $5,000,000 in cash. In connection with the establishment of the joint venture, we may experience: o Difficulties in integrating our and Gloria Solar's respective corporate cultures and business objectives into the new joint venture; o Diversion of our management's time and attention from other business concerns; o Higher than anticipated costs of integration at the joint venture; o Difficulties in retaining key employees who are necessary to manage the joint venture; or o Difficulties in working with an entity based in Taiwan and thus remote or inconvenient to our Bedford, Massachusetts headquarters. For any of these reasons or as a result of other factors, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of the joint venture, and cash flow or profits derived from our ownership interest in the joint venture may be less than the cash flow or profits that could have been derived had we retained the transferred assets and continued to operate the JV Systems Business ourselves. Either party has the right, at any time upon certain material breaches by the other party of obligations under the joint venture documents, to acquire all of the breaching party's interest in the joint venture at 90% fair market value. In addition, in the event of a "change in control" of a member, the other members may purchase such member's interest in the joint venture at fair market value. Furthermore, our further participation in the business of the joint venture is restricted; until September 2010, we may not mass manufacture, market or sell solar cell modules with less than 575 watt capacity, and may do so thereafter only outside the United States. SOME OF THE REQUIREMENTS OF SARBANES-OXLEY AFFECT US AS A SMALL COMPANY DISPROPORTIONATELY, AND WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO COMPLY IN A TIMELY MANNER DESPITE SUBSTANTIAL EFFORT AND EXPENSE. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposed many new requirements on public companies, the most significant of which involves the documentation, testing and reporting of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We are required to report on our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in this Annual Report on From 10-K. We have documented and tested our internal controls in 2008 and this effort involved substantial time and expense. We have identified material weaknesses, as discussed below, from our internal assessment and our independent registered public accounting firm has also identified items in its annual audit of our financial statements. Based on this evaluation, management concluded that the following material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting existed as of December 31, 2008: we did not have adequate staffing with the necessary knowledge, experience and training to ensure the completeness and accuracy of our financial statements. Additionally, our internal policies and procedures related to internal control over financial reporting were not effective. As a result of these material 13 weaknesses, issues related to accounting for inventory, accruals, reserves, income taxes and revenues existed in our internal preliminary 2008 fiscal year consolidated financial statements and resulted in a restatement of 2007 and 2008 results. For more detailed information see "Item 9A(T). Controls and Procedures." We are working to address the issues raised by this material weakness, but we may not be successful in remediating them in a timely manner. OUR CREDIT AGREEMENTS WITH SILICON VALLEY BANK SUBJECTS US TO VARIOUS RESTRICTIONS, WHICH MAY LIMIT OUR ABILITY TO PURSUE BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES. Our credit agreements with Silicon Valley Bank subjects us to various restrictions on our ability to engage in certain activities without the prior written consent of the bank, including, among other things, our ability to: o Dispose of or encumber assets, other than in the ordinary course of business, o Incur additional indebtedness, o Merge or consolidate with other entities, or acquire other businesses, and o Make investments. The agreements also subject us to various financial and other covenants with which we must comply on an ongoing or periodic basis. For example under our equipment line, as long as any commitment remains outstanding under the facility, we must comply with an adjusted quick ratio covenant and a rolling six month average minimum net income covenant. If we violate these or any other covenant, any outstanding debt under these agreements could become immediately due and payable, the bank could proceed against any collateral securing indebtedness and our ability to borrow funds in the future may be restricted or eliminated. These restrictions may also limit our ability to pursue business opportunities or strategies that we would otherwise consider to be in the best interests of the company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS - ----------------------------------- None. 