risk factors outlined in Item 1A below, and, from time to time, in other reports we file with the SEC. These factors or uncertainties materialize or should the underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results could differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements. Given these uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made, and we disclaim any obligation to publicly update these statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made, or disclose any difference between its actual results and those reflected in these statements. New factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to predict all of such factors, nor can we assess the impact of each such factor may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. CAUTIONARY NOTE TO U.S. INVESTORS CONCERNING ESTIMATES OF RESERVES AND RESOURCES The mineral estimates in this Annual Report on Form 10-K have been prepared in accordance with Canadian National Instrument 43-101 – Standards of Disclosure for Mineral Projects (“NI 43-101”). The terms “mineral reserve”, “proven mineral reserve”, “probable mineral reserve”, “measured resources”, “indicated resources” and “inferred resources” are Canadian mining terms as defined in accordance with NI 43-101. U.S. investors are cautioned that the United States Securities and Exchange Commission does not recognize these resource classifications. There is no assurance that any of our mineral resources will be converted into reserves under the disclosure standards of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. Further, “‘inferred resources” have a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence, and economic and legal feasibility. It cannot be assumed that all or any part of an inferred mineral resource will ever be upgraded to a higher category. Under Canadian rules, estimates of inferred mineral resources may not form the basis of feasibility or pre-feasibility studies, except in rare cases. Investors are cautioned not to assume that part or all of an “inferred resource” exists, or is economically or legally mineable. INTRODUCTION Silverado is engaged in the acquisition and exploration of mineral properties in the State of Alaska, through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Silverado Gold Mines Inc., and in the development of a liquid fuel derived from low-rank coal through its other wholly-owned subsidiary, Silverado Green Fuel, Inc. Silverado has committed over three decades of work to the exploration, development and test mining of gold properties throughout North America. In the mid-1980s, the Company decided to focus its efforts in Alaska. We have extensive experience in geological, geochemical and geophysical exploration techniques. Our mineral holdings are located in the Fairbanks Mining District and in the Koyukuk Mining District, consisting of both lode and placer mining claims. At the present time, our primary focus is the exploration and development of our Nolan Gold Project and our Hammond property located 175 miles north of Fairbanks, Alaska. We are also continuing with exploration activities on our Eagle Creek Property and our Ester Dome Project, which are both located in the Fairbanks Mining District. 2 Silverado’s cash inflow has been generated mainly from private financings, gold sale proceeds earned during the exploration stage, debentures and loans. The Company’s continuing operations are dependent upon private financings to operate our business. Silverado has been working for eight years on the development of low-rank coal-water fuel (“Green Fuel”), a non-toxic liquid fuel product derived from sub-bituminous and lignite coal. In its finished form, the fuel is a non-toxic, non-hazardous environmentally friendly strategic (liquid) fuel. Silverado is seeking financing to enable us to proceed with the construction of a commercial demonstration facility designed to document the combustion characteristics of Green Fuel. A successful demonstration project could lead to construction of a commercial production facility to manufacture the low-rank coal-water fuel as a replacement fuel for oil fired boilers and utility generators. CORPORATE ORGANIZATION Silverado Gold Mines Ltd. is a corporation organized under the laws of British Columbia, Canada. The Company was originally incorporated in June 1963. Silverado operates in the United States through its wholly owned subsidiaries, Silverado Gold Mines Inc., (incorporated May 29, 1981) and Silverado Green Fuel Inc. (incorporated August 14, 2006). We filed a transition application and notice of articles with the British Columbia Registrar of Companies on April 20, 2004 in order to replace our former memorandum adopted under the British Columbia Company Act and to alter our current articles to the extent necessary to ensure compliance with the British Columbia Business Corporations Act (the “BC Business Corporations Act”). The BC Business Corporations Act came into force in British Columbia on March 29, 2004 and replaced the former British Columbia Company Act. The transition notice and notice of articles was filed under the BC Business Corporations Act that requires any British Columbia company incorporated under the former British Columbia Company Act to effect transition under the BC Business Corporations Act by filing with the British Columbia Registrar of Companies a transition application and notice of articles within two years following the coming into force of the BC Business Corporations Act. Our exploration activities have been managed and conducted by affiliated companies, Tri-Con Mining Ltd. (“Tri-Con”) and Tri-Con Mining Inc., pursuant to written operating agreements. Each of Tri-Con and Tri-Con Mining Inc. are privately-owned corporations controlled by Garry L. Anselmo, who is our president, chief executive officer, and the chairman of our board of directors. MINERAL EXPLORATION BUSINESS We are a mineral exploration company with interests in properties located throughout the state of Alaska. The majority of such properties are in the early stages of exploration, and there is no assurance that a commercially viable mineral deposit exists on such properties. Effective January 1, 2009, based on completion of a preliminary feasibility study, our Nolan Gold and Antimony Lode Project has disclosed an economically viable mineral reserve. Certain definitions of geological and technical terms used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are provided in the Glossary of Terms under Item 2. Readers and investors are cautioned that many of these terms, such as “inferred resource” and “indicated resource” are terms used and accepted by the Canadian Institute of Mining (CIM), and although these terms are recognized and required by the Canadian Securities regulations, they are not recognized by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. We hold interests in the following four groups of mineral properties in Alaska: 1. Nolan Gold Project; 2. Ester Dome Gold properties; 3. Hammond properties; and 4. Eagle Creek properties. A description of our operations with respect to each of these mineral properties is as follows: 1. Description of Operations at the Nolan Gold Project 1.1 Nolan Gold Project Background The Nolan Gold Project consists of both placer-style and lode-style deposit types for exploration and development. The Nolan Placer Gold Project involves exploration and development of gold occurring in placer deposits such as stream channels or ancient remnants of placer gold deposits. The Nolan Lode Gold and Antimony Project consist of exploration work designed to locate bedrock structures or formations of bedrock which host gold and antimony mineralization. These two facets of the Nolan Gold Project complement each other, as every stone or pebble in a placer deposit is a piece of rock eroded from some near or distant bedrock formation, and each gold nugget or grain of gold in a placer deposit was originally part of a bedrock formation or structure with lode gold mineralization. Because a placer deposit originates from a lode source, the search for the Nolan lode source involves unraveling the sequences of events that caused a placer deposit to form, as well as applying various geological, geochemical and geophysical exploratory investigations. 3 The Nolan Gold Project consists of numerous mineral prospects that are in the early stages of exploration, as well as mineral prospects in the advanced stages of exploration. During the years previous to 2007, the Company focused only minimal exploration effort on finding a lode source for gold and focused mostly on the exploration and development of placer gold. During 2007-2010, the Company focused its efforts on the lode potential of the Nolan Creek property, herein referred to as the Nolan Lode Gold and Antimony Project. The project is in the advanced stages of exploration and is potentially moving toward the development stage. During September of 2008, the Company commissioned an independent mining consultant to perform a preliminary feasibility study of the Workman’s Bench lode gold and antimony deposit. The results were released to the public on January 5, 2009. The previous (prior to 2008) bulk sampling projects of placer gold from the gravel benches along the left limit of Nolan Creek had indicated that there was an association between some of the placer gold recovered and an antimony sulfide mineral called stibnite which commonly coated the coarser and angular gold nuggets. Stibnite is a sulfide mineral, and is a common pathfinder mineral for gold exploration and consists of the elements antimony and sulfur. 1.2 Nolan Gold Project’s Exploration Approach and Focus 2007 The new exploration approach began in 2007 and involved not only looking for the lode source of the gold, but also giving economic consideration to the element antimony in addition to the gold, for exploration and development. In 2007, the Company began a new systematic and more scientific approach that combined soil and rock (surface) geochemical data and geophysical data (airborne and ground) with subsurface drill core geochemical and geological data. The data was compiled into a Geographical Information System (GIS) database. All GIS surface data acquired in the field was located with a Global Positioning System (GPS). In 2007, the Company began focusing on the lode source of the gold and antimony in the areas referred to as Pringle Bench and Workman’s Bench. These two target areas are underlain by a quartz-gold-antimony veined zone that is part of a sheared and faulted structural zone referred to by the Company as the Solomon Shear Zone. The Company excavated eight trenches totaling 440 lineal feet of bedrock in the Pringle and Workman’s Benches and collected continuous chip samples from the bedrock that included the gold and antimony veins. The Company will continue to use the excavation of trenches to assist in exploration, especially to aid in defining drill targets, taking advantage of the historic roads and trails that allow transport of heavy equipment for exploration purposes. In 2007, the Company acquired a tracked and mobile diamond core drill for exploration. The diamond core drill, and the 2 inch diameter (NQ) core, allow the geologist to make determination of the true width of mineralized veins and the relationship of the vein to other primary geologic structures. The diamond drill core allows for more accurate analysis of grade and interpretation of style of mineralization and timing of mineralization relative to other structures in the rock. During 2007, the new soil and rock geochemical data and geophysical data further delineated the northeast trending structural zone, referred to by the Company as the Solomon Shear Zone, which is associated with gold and antimony mineralization. The new approach in 2007 involved the first phase of drilling, using the newly acquired diamond core. A total of 18 holes were drilled across the Solomon Shear Zone. The diamond core drilling data supported the geochemical and geophysical data. The drilling was focused on the Workman’s and Pringle Benches located on the south and north sides of Smith Creek respectively. During 2007, the Company’s exploration efforts in the Fortress area delineated gold and arsenic soil anomalies which coincide with east-west VLF-EM ground geophysical anomalies interpreted by the Company as possibly new mineralized structural trends. The Fortress area has never been drilled and is still in the earliest stages of exploration. Exploration efforts in 2007 did not result in finding a commercially viable mineral deposit. 4 2008 During the winter of 2008, the Company excavated 570 feet of exploration tunnels into the bedrock below Workman’s Bench. During the summer of 2008, the Company began the second phase of diamond core drilling, focusing on the Workman’s Bench area, and did not drill north of Smith Creek. The Company continued with the ground (non airborne) very low frequency electromagnetic (VLF-EM) geophysical grid in the Fortress area located on the north end of the property. The drilling under Workman’s Bench delineated 1,300 feet of gold and antimony mineralization in near vertical structures or veins that extend down dip two hundred feet and remain open at depth. The steeply dipping (near vertical) veins are much more favorable for mining and engineering purposes than lower angled subsurface structures. The 1,300 ft long and 80 to 100 ft wide zone of quartz-antimony-gold veins extends from Smith Creek southwest across Workman’s Bench and is interpreted by the Company to have been offset by a left-lateral fault at its southern extent. The interpretation of the left-lateral fault is based off of both geophysical data, and drill data, and it has possibly displaced the quartz-antimony-gold veined zone. The 1,300 ft long veined zone, located south of Smith Creek, under Workman’s Bench, requires 600 ft of infill drilling to confirm whether the zone connects with the veined zone underlying the Pringle Bench, which was drilled in 2007. The Company attempted to infill drill the area in the fall of 2008, but freezing temperatures halted that effort. The 2007 and 2008 drill results in the Workman’s Bench area were not sufficient to define a probable reserve, but the drill results combined with the preliminary feasibility study was sufficient enough to define a probable reserve. Reserves and resources are listed in Item 2, below. 2009 During 2009 the exploration approach and focus was on advancing to the potential development stage which involved collecting baseline environmental data and performing characterization studies for permitting obligations such as the acid rock drainage study which is still ongoing. In addition, the Company performed critical upgrades to the Nolan Creek Camp facility in preparation for a crew of mining personnel to assist with the proposed bulk sampling program. Due to insufficient investment capital, the permitted 1,000 cubic yard underground bulk sample of antimony-gold ore was not initiated. During the summer of 2009 the Company drilled 20 diamond core drill holes totaling 4,992 feet under Workman’s and Pringle Benches. The drill program was focused on increasing the size of the ‘A Zone’ beyond the 2008 resource and reserve blocks. The drill results at both Workman’s and Pringle Benches were not spatially located for a reserve status but they were sufficient for an inferred resource. Refer to Item 2 below for the resource and reserve estimates. Another goal of the summer drill program was to connect the resource blocks of the Workman’s and Pringle Bench Prospects. Drilling in the Smith Creek lowlands encountered problems that will require a larger drill in order to extract core samples and to have a contiguous resource block that connects Pringle Bench to Workman’s. However, drilling along the south end of Pringle Bench in 2009 combined with soil and geophysical anomalies has confirmed that the Main Zone of gold and antimony mineralization encountered in Workman’s and Pringle Bench are part of the same northeast trending zone. 2010 During 2010 the Company performed limited exploration work on the property. Due to insufficient capital, the permitted 1,000 cubic yard underground bulk sample of antimony-gold ore was not initiated. Limited funding also prevented us from initiating the permitted diamond core drill program which was planned to increase mineral resources under Workman’s and Pringle Benches. The Company’s geologists mapped and prospected the bedrock exposures located west of Pringle Bench which is the area on the property with the best gold soil geochemistry. The underground portal was inspected and the roads and infrastructure were maintained and remain in good order. Upgrades and maintenance were performed throughout the property and include but were not limited to fuel storage areas and removal of old waste from the site. Drill sites were located and surveyed in preparation for a drill program which will include two HQ diamond core drills capable of drilling in excess of 1,000 feet. 1.3 Nolan Gold Bulk Sampling Projects 1.3.1 2007 Placer Gold Bulk Sampling Projects 2007 Swede Channel and Mary’s East Bulk Sampling Projects The Swede Channel and Mary’s East placer deposits represent the last bulk placer sampling projects that the Company has undertaken, and are disclosed herein as part of the background of the Company’s operations. 5 The Swede Channel Placer Gold Deposit (“Swede Channel”) is a glacial drainage perched several hundred feet above the Nolan Creek Valley. During the ice age, a glacial event caused the Swede Gulch to rapidly erode a deep, narrow water channel across earlier gold bearing river gravel deposits. Erosion and transportation caused the gold bearing gravel to be re-concentrated due to removal of the lighter gangue minerals, while much of the heavier gold, along with boulders and coarse gravel common to a high energy drainage environment, was deposited to the Swede Channel. Subsequent post glacial uplift and erosion has established the present topography including the perched Swede Channel location on the westerly flank of Smith Dome, and overlain by up to 100 feet of overburden making it an unidentifiable surface topographic expression. The Mary’s East Placer Gold Deposit (“Mary’s East”) is located a few hundred yards northeast of the Swede Channel and directly east of Mary’s Bench Placer Gold Deposit. Unlike the gold concentrations in the Swede Channel, the placer gold in Mary’s East is concentrated in landslide material that was deposited onto a bedrock shelf during the ice age. Swede Channel and Mary’s East 2007 Work During the winter of 2006, Silverado re-opened the Swede portal and continued with its underground exploration and development program on the remaining sections of the Swede Channel until its completion by the middle of January 2007. A total of 8,963 loose cubic yards (“LCY”) of gravel material was stockpiled from the remaining Swede Channel. In early January 2007, crews installed a portal into Mary’s East, and began an underground drift into the Mary’s East deposit. The Mary’s East project was completed at the end of March 2007 and 9,357 LCY of gravel material was stockpiled from this project. The 2006-2007 winter stockpile contained 18,320 LCY (Swede Channel and Mary’s East combined) of gravel material, and was processed from June through July of 2007 at the existing sluice plant location, yielding 2,811.74 troy ounces of gold nugget gold and over 207 pounds of concentrate that contained gold particles smaller than 1/4 inch in size. The fine concentrate yielded 915.06 troy ounces of gold (30% gold), which when combined with 2,811.74 troy ounces of nugget gold recovered in 2007 totals 3,726.80 troy ounces. Also, the fine concentrates yielded 65.10 troy ounces of silver or 2.15% silver which was included in gold inventory. The Swede channel and Mary’s East portals were both sealed after completion of the underground bulk sampling projects. Both sites were reclaimed in summer 2007 as required by the Bureau of Land Management. 1.3.2 2008 Nolan Lode Gold and Antimony Bulk Sampling Project During 2008, the Company did not explore for placer gold resources. Exploration focused on the lode potential of the Main Zone of gold-antimony veining at Workman’s Bench which required drill intercepts to be spaced close enough to define the various zones, especially the ‘A Zone’ Vein fault. The ‘A Zone’ was to be the sample target for a future 1,000 cubic yard bulk sample. The extraction of a bulk sample or samples of gold-bearing semi-massive to massive stibnite (antimony mineral) is necessary for mineral processing and metallurgical investigation. On November 16, 2007, Silverado began the excavation of the Workman’s Bench Portal and continued excavating 570 feet of underground workings into the bedrock below Workman’s Bench. The tunnels were finished in early February of 2008. The tunnels are interconnected and serve a multitude of purposes. The first purpose was for determining the overall width of the veined gold and antimony mineralized zone and establishing the strike and dip of the individual quartz-gold-antimony veins. The second purpose was for the collection of insitu bedrock channel samples for geochemical assays, and the third was for the collection of significantly larger (bulk) samples of the main gold and antimony vein referred to by the Company as the Zone A vein, that typically consists of massive stibnite and gold, for more accurate geochemical assays as well as for preliminary milling and processing studies of the gold and antimony. The final purpose of the tunnels is for access and egress for future bulk sampling at depth. Depending on funding, the Company plans to collect either a 1,000 cubic yard or 2,000 cubic yard bulk sample of the main gold and antimony vein referred to by the Company as the A Zone Vein. Other potential targets for future exploration and development include the West Zone, B Zone and C Zone that parallel the main A Zone Vein. Bulk Sample of the ‘A’ Zone Vein Prior to 2008, the Company had not completed mineral processing or tests for mineral processing of lode mineralization in the Nolan Creek area. 6 Thomas K. Bundtzen (the “QP”), an independent and AIPG Certified Professional Geologist, served as an independent third-party qualified person to the Company for the purpose of certifying and collecting data for the Nolan Gold Project. In April 2008, the QP collected a 414 lb bulk sample of semi-massive stibnite, vein quartz, and wall rock gangue from the defined mineralized ‘A’ Zone in the Workman’s Bench underground workings. The purpose was to determine the mineralogical nature of the antimony mineralization and the source of significant gold values within the ‘A’ Zone. The 414 lb bulk sample was sent to Hazen Research Labs Inc. in Golden, Colorado, USA in order to discover the most optimal grind for potential marketing of a stibnite product, and to identify the mineralogical nature of the gold and antimony values. Hazen Research Labs Inc. produced two reports in September of 2008. Results of the first report involve flotation and gravity separation of the gold, stibnite and other sulfides and gangue minerals. The results of the second report involve mineralogical examination. Details of the two Hazen Research Lab reports are discussed under Item 2, below. Silverado has recently acquired a permit from the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) to collect and process a maximum 1,000 cu yd of material from the Workman’s Bench Lode for metallurgical testing. The bulk sample will be collected to determine grinding, flotation, and other processing and mineralogical characteristics of stibnite. The QP released a detailed technical report on July 29, 2008 referred to as NI 43-101 which disclosed both placer and lode resource estimates for the Nolan Creek properties. Discussion and results of the bulk sample collected by the QP are detailed in the technical report. The July 29, 2008 report was based on information available to the QP as of July 2, 2008, and the resource estimates in the report were superseded by the QP’s November 17, 2008 revised estimates which indicated a resource of 17,000 oz of gold which has been reclassified as a reserve of 17,000 oz of gold following the release of the preliminary feasibility study, effective January 1, 2009 as amended June 1 2009. The more recent reserve estimates are discussed in Item 2. The most recent reserve estimates are more complete and accurate since they include data from the completion of the 2008 drill program that ended in late September of 2008. The most recent report, effective January 1, 2009 as amended June 1 2009 includes a feasibility study by the QP as well as additional drilling data and analysis of core samples. Readers and investors are cautioned that the 43-101 technical report in which the reserve estimates are based upon contains language and terms that may not be recognized by the US Securities and Exchange Commission. 1.3.3 2009-2010 Nolan Lode Gold and Antimony Bulk Sampling Project During 2009 and 2010 the Company was unable to acquire the investment capital to initiate the underground 1,000 cubic yard bulk sample of gold-antimony ore from the reserve block that underlies Workman’s Bench. The Company honored permit obligations and also collected additional geotechnical and geological data which will assist in the success of the underground bulk sample. The underground tunnels and portal were inspected and appeared to be in structurally sound condition. The summer and fall drilling program added geologic and geotechnical data that will assist the bulk sampling program (See Item 2 – Description of Property, below). During 2010 the Company performed limited exploration work on the property. 1.4 Nolan Placer Gold Project Exploration 1.4.1 2007 Nolan Placer Gold Exploration During March and April 2007, placer gold exploration focused on drilling along the left limit of Nolan Creek to explore both north and south of the Mary’s East and Swede Channel deposits. Further placer drilling was carried out within the area between the Mary’s East/Swede Channel Deposits and the Topnotch Prospect. A total of 130 reverse circulation (RC) drill holes were completed during that drilling program with a total drill footage of 6,005 feet. The 2007 placer drilling program discovered an entirely new zone of placer gold which has been named Jack London Bench. Jack London Bench is located 200 feet north-east of and 50 feet above the Mary’s East Bench. RC drilling is the principal exploration method used by Silverado in the identification of placer gold deposits. All placer drilling in 2007 was performed by a contractor using 6 inch diameter drill rods. Placer drill samples were collected in 5 foot intervals (industry standard). 1.4.2 2008 – 2010 Nolan Placer Gold Exploration The Company did not do any field exploration work such as reverse circulation (RC) drilling or any other active exploration for placer gold during the past three years from 2008 to 2010. The Company focused on the Nolan Lode Gold and Antimony Project. However, during 2008 there was a technical report filed that related to the Nolan placer resources. 7 On July 29, 2008, the QP released the NI 43-101 Report ‘Estimation of Lode and Placer Mineral Resources, Nolan Creek, Wiseman B-1 Quadrangle, Koyukuk District, Northern Alaska’, which describes lode and placer mineralization in the Nolan Creek area, including the Workman’s bench area. No new information concerning sampling methods and approach for placer deposits has been generated for Nolan Creek project since that release of information. The results of Bundtzen’s resource estimates differ from the placer gold resource estimates reported by Murton’s 2007 NI 43-101 report for the Company. The difference between the Murton resource estimates and the Bundtzen estimates was due to Bundtzen having access to more data. 1.4.3 Nolan Placer Gold Exploration 2011 Work Plan Currently the Company is focusing on the Nolan Lode Gold and Antimony Project with an emphasis on infill drilling for more accurate resource estimates in the Workman’s and Pringle Bench Areas. However, due to the current gold prices, the Company may explore for placer gold within benches farther upslope along the left limit of Nolan Creek. More infill RC drilling is needed on Jack London Bench and other benches on the left limit of Nolan Creek. Jack London Bench is upslope of the former drift mined gold-rich channels that were sampled by Silverado in 2006 and 2007. All targets for exploration along the left limit of Nolan Creek are well above the elevation of Nolan Creek. The Nolan Creek Deep Channel is a primary consideration for exploration and development, but additional data is needed for hydrologic studies. Based on previous RC drill data, the Company believes the best target for placer gold exploration and development is located in the Slisco Bench which is part of our Hammond Property and is discussed below. Budget projections for this project are detailed under the section “Projected Annual Budget for 2011” 1.5 Nolan Lode Gold and Antimony Project Exploration 1.5.1 2007 – 2009 Nolan Lode Gold and Antimony Project Exploration Work Summary During 2007 – 2009, exploration for a lode gold and antimony deposit on the Company’s Nolan property focused on the Nolan Creek area within the Solomon Shear Zone and the Fortress area. The Solomon Shear Zone is a five mile long gold and antimony bearing shear zone, which is a possible source of placer gold in the Nolan valley drainages, and bench deposits such as Swede Channel, Mary’s East Bench, Mary’s Bench, Eureka Bench, and Workman’s Bench. The 2007 lode exploration program consisted of extensive ground geochemical soil surveys and ground geophysical very low frequency electromagnetic (“VLF-EM”) surveys, extensive backhoe trenching and a first phase diamond core drilling program to follow up on the significant results achieved by backhoe trenching. In 2008 and 2009 the Company continued defining resources and reserves in the Workman’s and Pringle Bench areas located near the confluence of Smith Creek and Nolan Creek. A more detailed description of the work performed each year is as follows: Nolan Creek Area 2007 In May, June, and July of 2007, the Company undertook an extensive geochemical soil sampling campaign on the lower Smith Creek Dome hillside between Archibald Creek and Smith Creek (the “Hillside”), and south of Smith Creek in the lower western part of Midnight Dome. A total of 695 soil samples were collected during the campaign on a 196.85 x 98.43 foot grid. Assay results of the soil sampling campaign show a distinct arsenic and antimony anomalous trend on the eastern part of the Solomon Shear trend. Arsenic anomalies are strong indicators for the presence of gold. Along with the soil sampling campaign, Silverado conducted an extensive VLF-EM ground geophysical survey (18.02 line miles) on the lower Smith Creek Dome hillside between Archibald Creek and Smith Creek, and south of Smith Creek in the lower western part of Midnight Dome, to identify structures such as shear zones, faults, and veins that occur within the bedrock. The VLF-EM survey identified structural trends in the Solomon Shear Zone that are overlain by arsenic, antimony, and gold in soil anomalies. In June, July, and August of 2007 the Company undertook backhoe trenching on Pringle Bench and Workman’s Bench. This program was followed up by a first phase diamond core drilling program. Details of the 2007 exploration program are as follows: Pringle Bench Pringle Bench represents an area 500 feet wide by 700 feet long and consists of a series of sub parallel gold bearing antimony-quartz veins. In 2007, the Company followed up on the results achieved on Pringle Bench in 2006 and excavated six additional trenches, totaling 1296 feet, to further investigate the gold bearing antimony-quartz veins previously identified in 2006. A total of 153 combined continuous chip and select chip rock samples were collected. Continuous chip samples were collected over a defined length along the trench walls and, therefore, are representative for a specific trench interval. Continuous chip samples do contain sample material of mineralized veins if those occur within the sample interval. Select samples were collected from individual quartz and stibnite-quartz veins exposed in the trenches and, therefore, their assays represent the individual veins sampled. 8 It should be noted that Trench H revealed a 16.4 ft interval (sample number 07H03) with an erratic gold grade. The Company instructed ALS Chemex to re-assay the pulp of the specific sample which confirmed the previous gold value. The Company also decided to re-sample Trench H. Re-sampling did not reproduce the grades of the previous sampling campaign, but confirmed the presence of gold and antimony mineralization. The stibnite-quartz veins in the Nolan area are known to contain coarse gold which can result in a “nugget effect” when assayed. Following up on the encouraging results achieved by backhoe trenching, the Company started a first phase drilling program at Pringle Bench at the end of August 2007 using its own diamond core drill rig. Eleven drill holes were drilled on Pringle Bench totaling 2,415 feet. The core drilling program was designed to check for down-dip continuity of the gold bearing antimony-quartz vein systems in the zones identified thus far. The core drilling confirmed the presence of gold-bearing stibnite (antimony) and quartz veins at varying depths. 2007 Workman’s Bench Workman’s Bench is located near the confluence of Smith and Nolan Creek. In July 2007, the Company excavated one trench in the old Workman’s Bench pit with a total length of 125 feet. This trench exposed the largest antimony veins discovered in the Nolan Creek area to that date. A total of 15 continuous chip samples were collected from Trench J. The following table presents significant 2007 trench assay results for Workman’s Bench: Trench J (Workman's Bench) Sample Number Sample Type Sample Length (ft) Gold (opt) Sb (%) 0704WT Continuous chip 8.20 0.00 1.70 0710WT Continuous chip 8.20 0.00 30.30 0711WT Continuous chip 8.20 0.01 1.72 0712WT Continuous chip 8.20 0.04 11.70 0713WT Continuous chip 8.20 0.12 29.30 0714WT Continuous chip 8.20 0.02 2.56 0715WT Continuous chip 9.84 0.02 14.05 A first phase exploration drilling program on Workman’s Bench using the Company’s own diamond core drill rig started at the end of August 2007 and ended on October 23, 2007 due to weather conditions. Seven drill holes were drilled totaling 2,140 feet. 9 This drilling program was designed to check for down-dip continuity of the gold bearing antimony-quartz veins previously discovered. Visual observation of the drill core had identified the presence of many antimony-quartz and quartz veins. The majority of these veins were found to be contained in an 80 foot wide zone. On November 16, 2007, we began excavation of the portal that would continue into the bedrock below Workman’s Bench located on the south side of Smith Creek near the confluence with Nolan Creek. The tunneling effort continued into 2008 and resulted in 570 feet of underground workings consisting of four interconnected tunnels referred to as Crosscut Tunnels A, B, C and D. The QP collected a 414 lb bulk sample from mineralized zone ‘A’ for metallurgical test work from the underground workings in April 2008. The underground exposure of the mineralized zone will play an important key role for the Company in obtaining a better understanding of the nature of the structurally controlled gold and antimony mineralization in the Solomon Shear Zone. This will significantly support Silverado’s exploration strategy. 1.5.2 2008 Nolan Lode Gold and Antimony Project Exploration Work Summary During 2008, exploration for a lode gold and antimony deposit on the Company’s Nolan property focused again on the Nolan Creek area within the Solomon Shear Zone and Fortress area. The Solomon Shear Zone is a five mile long gold and antimony bearing shear zone, which is a possible source of placer gold in the Nolan valley drainages, especially the gravel bench deposits such as Swede Channel, Mary’s East Bench, Mary’s Bench, Eureka Bench, and Workman’s and Pringle Bench. The Fortress area is a broad ridge located on the north end of the property between the Hammond River drainage and the Nolan Creek drainage. The Fortress area hosts gold-quartz-arsenopyrite veins which are associated with east-west structures termed by the Company as the Fortress trend. The Fortress veins may be the source for the gold in the Thompson Pup placer deposits. The southern end of the Fortress area is cut by the Solomon Shear Zone and contains gold and antimony mineralized quartz veins distinctly different from the Fortress trend veins. The 2008 lode exploration program consisted of a variety of field exploration work. During early February 2008, 570 lineal ft of underground tunnels, termed Tunnels A, B, C and D were completed in the bedrock below the Workman’s Bench, crosscutting the gold and antimony veins associated with the Solomon Shear Zone. Channel samples of the bedrock were collected from the newly excavated tunnels during the winter of 2008. During April of 2008, the QP collected a 414 lb bulk sample of the gold and stibnite-rich main vein, referred to by the Company as the Zone A vein. During the early summer of 2008, additional ground geophysical very low frequency electromagnetic (VLF-EM) surveys were conducted in the Fortress area. Approximately 79,000 ft (14.9 miles) of geophysical lines were surveyed in the former area. No soil samples were collected on any of the Nolan Gold Properties. Fourteen rock samples were collected throughout the Nolan Gold Project properties. Additional diamond core drilling continued in the summer of 2008, but focused exclusively on the Solomon Shear Zone on the south side of Smith Creek. Thirty four drill holes were drilled into the gold-bearing antimony-quartz veined zone underlying Workman’s Bench and the southwest continuation of the zone. A total of 11,597 ft was drilled into the Solomon Shear Zone. Freezing temperatures disallowed the continuation of drilling in late September while the Company was trying to drill on the north side of Smith Creek between the Pringle Bench and Workman’s Bench areas. In addition, in June of 2008, three vertical RC holes (water test wells) were drilled a minimum of 300 ft each to test for the presence of groundwater in the area around Workman’s Bench. The well holes were drilled outside the limits of the mineralized Solomon Shear Zone, yet were proximal to the zone. According to Swan Drilling of Fairbanks Alaska, no groundwater water was encountered in any of the RC drill holes. A total of 1,000 ft was drilled by Swan Drilling. The rock chips were collected every five feet and visually inspected by geologists for possible mineralization. 10 A more detailed description of exploration work during 2008 is as follows: 2008 Nolan Creek Area 2008 Workman’s Bench On November 16, 2007, we began the excavation of the Workman’s Bench Portal and continued excavating 570 feet of underground workings into the bedrock below Workman’s Bench. The tunnels were finished on February 2, 2008. The tunnels are interconnected and serve a multitude of purposes. The first purpose was for determining the overall width of the veined gold and antimony mineralized zone and establishing the strike and dip of the individual quartz-gold-antimony veins. The second purpose was for the collection of insitu bedrock channel samples for geochemical assays, and the third purpose was for the collection of significantly larger (bulk) samples of the main gold and antimony vein referred to by the Company as the ‘A’ Zone vein. The A zone vein typically consists of massive stibnite and gold with variable quartz and carbonate gangue minerals. The underground workings were mapped to determine the true strike and dip of the veins as well as the true width of the veins and mineralized zones. The QP collected a 414 lb bulk sample of the ‘A’ Zone Vein for more accurate geochemical assays as well as for preliminary milling and processing studies of the gold and antimony. The 414 lb sample of mostly massive stibnite with minor quartz and carbonate gangue was sent to Hazen Research Inc. Lakewood, Colorado, for the metallurgical tests. The underground tunnels will also be used for additional geotechnical studies and most importantly for access and egress of future bulk sampling efforts at depth. During February of 2008, the Company collected 92 channel samples from the rock walls of the tunnels, and collected specific samples of the larger quartz-stibnite-gold veins. The channel samples were five feet in length. In addition, the QP collected 23 independent channel samples across 16 northeast striking steeply dipping quart-stibnite-gold veins, as well as 7 other less mineralized structures. The following table presents assay values of significant 2008 underground channel samples and specific semi-massive and massive stibnite vein samples collected during February of 2008. The following table shows the slightly variable gold content within the stibnite rich areas, even when sampled from similar sites. The variable gold content in the massive stibnite, and stibnite-rich zones, supports the Company’s previous interpretation that there is a gold ‘nugget effect’ that makes the estimation of a lode gold to antimony ratio difficult to ascertain and is part of the reason why the Company is seeking a bulk sample on the scale of 1,000 to 2000 cubic yards or more. Also, further metallurgical work and processing studies will be carried out on a wider range of ore grade material. Refer to plan view map of the underground workings for the sample locations. Sample Number Stibnite Target Vein Zone Sample Location Number Or Tunnel True Width In feet Sb (%) A u (oz/t) Brief Description 203405 Bench Test Sample ‘West’ Zone Tunnel D 1.5 41.20 0.110 Semi-massive stibnite, quartz gangue 203789 ‘West’ Zone Tunnels A and D 1.5 22.48 0.556 Wall rock of connecting drift 203808 A Zone Tunnel D 1.50 43.64 1.19 Nearly massive stibnite with quartz WBUG3 S1 ‘A’ Zone Site 3B 0.42 52.10 0.676 Massive Stibnite Vein in North Drift WBUG3 S2 ‘A’ Zone Site 3B 0.42 58.89 0.329 Massive Stibnite Vein in North Drift WBUG3 S3 ‘A’ Zone Site 3A 0.42 60.90 0.031 Massive Stibnite Vein in North Drift WBUG3 S4 ‘A’ Zone Site 3B 0.42 55.71 0.45 1 Massive Stibnite Vein in North Drift WBUG3 S5 ‘A’ Zone Site 3B 0.42 11.10 0.444 Semi-Massive Stibnite Vein in North Drift WBUG8- S2 ‘A’ Zone Site 8 0.42 58.76 0.145 Massive stibnite Vein in South Drift 203802 ‘A’ Zone Tunnel C 2.50 37.78 0.076 Semi-Massive Stibnite Vein in South Drift 203810 ‘B’ Zone Tunnel C 0.5 41.0 0.696 Nearly massive stibnite with quartz, south drift 203791 ‘B’ Zone Tunnel A 0.50 39.73 0.362 Nearly massive stibnite with hanging wall north drift WBUG8 S1 ‘A’ Zone Site 8 0.42 57.52 0.359 Massive stibnite Vein in South Drift WBUG5 S2 ‘B’ Zone Site 5 0.42 50.04 1.040 Massive Stibnite Vein in North Drift 11 A total of 34 diamond core drill holes were drilled into the gold-bearing antimony-quartz veined Solomon Shear Zone in 2008, totaling 11,597 ft of core for the season, with a core recovery of over 95%. The second phase drilling effort was focused exclusively on the portion of the Solomon Shear Zone that extends 1300 ft southwest from Smith Creek across Workman’s Bench. Details of the results of the drilling program are discussed below. During the 2008 drilling program, a total of 627 samples were collected from the drill core. The total samples collected is significantly less than the 1,195 core samples collected during the 2007 drill program even though the drilling footage in 2007 totaled only 4,555 ft. The fewer samples collected was based off of results of 2007 when the holes were sampled from top to bottom. Drill results in both the Pringle and Workman’s Benches in 2007 indicated that the gold mineralization was associated with the sulfide-bearing (stibnite or arsenopyrite) quartz veins. Thus, only individual quartz veins or zones of closely spaced thin veins were sampled, and these samples are referred to as specific samples. The adjoining wall rock of significant veined zones was also sampled, and these are referred to as reference samples for continuity across the zones. Four discrete gold-bearing stibnite-quartz-carbonate veined zones, were defined by the results of the two drilling programs, and these four zones are also evident in the workman’s Bench Underground exploration tunnels. The four zones are depicted in the Fig below. Currently, the ‘A’ Zone vein is the largest in width and most well defined in our downhole projections and in the exploration tunnels. The ‘A’ zone vein was subject for the bulk sample collected by the QP in April of 2008. Results of the bulk sample are listed in Bundtzen’s 43-101 report. The resource estimates for the deposit exclude the ‘C’ Zone. The map below is a plan-view of the 570 ft of underground workings and depicts three of the four mineralized zones. The ‘West’ zone which typically skirts the west side of the ‘A’ Zone is not outlined in the figure. 12 Location of underground development and channel samples, Workman’s Bench 13 2007 and 2008 view of Workman’s bench mineralized zones, showing locations of underground workings, drill hole control, and interpreted extensions and overall widths of A, B, C and West Zones. 14 1.5.3 2009 Nolan Lode Gold and Antimony Project Exploration Work Summary During 2009, exploration work involved drilling a total of 20 holes totaling 4,992 feet into the Solomon Shear Zone. The drill footage closely follows the recommendations made in the 43-101 technical report released to the public on January 5, 2009. Specific information for drill collars has been previously released in Silverado news releases disclosed on August 26 and September 22 of 2009. The 2009 drill program was focused exclusively on the ‘A Zone’ mesothermal stibnite-quartz-gold vein-fault. During 2007 the drill core was sampled for the entire length of the drill hole. In 2008, the Company sampled all mineralized intervals encountered which also included the other zones formerly referred to as the West, B and C Zones. During the 2009 summer drill program core samples were collected to test the ‘A Zone’ and adjacent wall rock at Workman’s Bench, whereas at Pringle Bench some of the other gold-antimony zones were sampled in addition to the ‘A Zone’. The metal gold and metalloid antimony are the primary ore minerals but additional analyses are also done to test for the content of potential deleterious metals that could affect the value of the antimony. According to specific samples of massive stibnite that were collected at Workman’s Bench, the deleterious metal content in the antimony ore is well below the amount that could penalize the price of the ore. In 2009, the drill core that was sampled averaged over 90% recovery and is consistent with the recovery of core sampled in 2008. A total of only 73 core samples were collected from the ‘A Zone’ or adjacent wall rock and sent to ALS Chemex Labs. The methods for analysis as well as the quality control methods are all consistent with the 2007 and 2008 drill programs and have been approved by the Company QP. In addition to the summer drill program, additional core and surface rock samples were submitted for geochemical analysis during the fall months. The additional samples were analyzed for determination of a potential bulk minable resource which was indicated in core sample results from previous 2008 samples along the north end of the Workman’s Bench drill grid as well as the 2009 core samples collected from the southern end of the Pringle Bench drill grid. The Company geologists and the Company QP interpreted the potential for a bulk minable resource after noting low grade gold that was continuous across widths of the shear zone that are wider yet lower in grade than the more well defined mineralized vein faults. Additional samples consist of a total of 55 drill core samples that were collected from the three southern-most drill holes along Pringle Bench as well as 15 surface channel bedrock samples to check for both bulk minable potential as well as other potential mineralized structures that are oblique to the main northeast-trending Solomon Shear Zone. More assays and more drill holes will be needed before any resource estimates can be made regarding the potential bulk minable resource. Since down hole/subsurface data is not sufficient for a definite structural geologic description, the area of potential bulk minable gold-antimony mineralization has been referred to as a deformation zone. The deformation zone consists of an abundance of smaller quartz-sulfide-gold veinlets and quartz-stibnite-gold veinlets as well as fine-grained disseminated and deformed sulfides that collectively have gold grades that average over 0.03 oz/t over much broader areas than the more well-defined and higher gold-antimony grades of the vein-fault zones such as the ‘A Zone’. The bulk mineable potential was disclosed in a Silverado news release on October 27, 2009. All news releases and the data contained within are approved by the Silverado QP. Readers and investors need to take caution that a potential resource is not an economically viable resource and considerable more data is required before a resource estimate can be made by the QP. In addition to the core and surface rock samples, the Company geologists continued their analysis of the abundance of geologic data for planning and design of a potential mine and/or a potential pilot mill that would be needed for processing of a large 1,000 cubic yard bulk sample. The characterization studies needed for permitting obligations were conducted throughout the fiscal year and are still ongoing. 2009 Workman’s Bench The drill holes in previous years along the Solomon Shear Zone were drilled at an azimuth that was oriented southeast, but in 2009 the Company needed to test the zone in an area vertically above the previous drill campaigns. Due to the topography, the drill collars had to be placed on the southeast side of the Shear Zone and the drill azimuths were orientated northwest. A total of 9 holes totaling 2,663 feet were drilled. Eight of the nine holes intercepted the main massive stibnite-gold-quartz vein-fault referred to as the ‘A Zone’. The one hole that was not successful was the result of poor drill recovery due to a fault zone that cut across the main Solomon Shear Zone. The focus of the drill program in 2009 was to use the limited drill footage that was budgeted to define the ‘A Zone’ at the higher elevations. Also, due to the precarious topography, the drill was not situated to test the other vein-fault zones that parallel the ‘A Zone’. The table on the following page lists some of the 2009 drill intercepts of the ‘A Zone’. None of the drilled intercepts are within the probable reserve block, and all of the drill holes are located vertically above the probable reserve block. The formerly mentioned reserve block was determined by the Company QP after completing a detailed feasibility study for the 43-101 report released on January 5, 2009. The 2009 drill intercepts of the ‘A Zone’ were not sufficiently spaced to be classified as a reserve, but they are consistent with an indicated resource according to the Company QP. Refer to the resource estimate tables under Item 2 and the summary table on the next page. Readers and investors should take caution when referring to the resource estimates in Item 2. Please take note of the cautionary statements listed with the resource estimates in Item 2. 15 2009 Pringle Bench Exploration work along Pringle Bench involved both diamond core drilling and limited trench excavation and rock sampling. Eleven holes were drilled totaling 2,329 feet. Ten of the eleven holes intercepted the ‘A Zone’. Other gold-antimony vein zones were intercepted but the focus of the program was to check the vertical extent and nature of the ‘A Zone’ at depth. The one hole that was not successful in hitting the ‘A Zone’ was due to the abandonment of the hole before the required depth. The table on the following page lists the widths of the intercepts and the gold and antimony content of the ‘A Zone’ quartz-gold-antimony vein fault. The new resource estimates based on the 2009 drill data can be found in Item 2 of this 10K. Please read the cautionary statements about the resource estimates that are included. The three southern-most holes were drilled at a different azimuth to check for other mineralized structures that may be oblique to the northeast-trending gold-antimony vein fault zones. Additional samples were collected from these three holes to allow for continued averages of grade to be determined. As stated previously, the additional samples were collected to determine if there is a potential for a bulk mineable resource at the Nolan Property, but more data and more drilling will be needed before any resource estimate of this nature can be determined by the QP. The Silverado news release dated October, 27, 2009 discusses the bulk mineable potential. Investors should take caution and realize that a potential resource is not a resource estimate and will need additional work to ascertain if it is an economically viable resource. The following table shows some examples of the types of mineralized veins found in the ‘A Zone’ in 2009. Some of the smaller veins are examples of individual veins and do not represent the entire zone which may contain more veins within it. The table does not show all of the intercepts used by the Company for resource estimates. The table is for description purposes only. Note: The ‘W’ and ‘P’ listed in the ‘Area’ column represent Workman’s and Pringle Benches respectively. 16 Area Drill Hole # Stibnite Vein Zone From (feet) To (feet) Width (feet) Sb (%) Au (oz/ton) Brief Description of Ore Veins Note: stibnite is comprised of antimony (Sb) and sulfur. The highest possible Sb content in pure stibnite is 70% W 09SH05 ‘A Zone’ 276.2 278.8 2.6 59.3% 0.27 2.0 ft wide (true width) massive stibnite with > 90% stibnite W 09SH06 ‘A’ Zone 214.3 215.1 0.8 36.2% 0.06 6 inch (true thickness) massive stibnite vein W 09SH07 ‘A Zone’ Hanging wall 216.2 217.0 0.8 <1.0% 0.64 Quartz-stibnite-Au veins totaling about 4 inches in hanging wall W 09SH07 ‘A Zone’ 218.0 219.6 1.6 47.9% 0.78 1.0 ft (true width) massive stibnite-quartz-gold vein W 09SH08 ‘A’ Zone 278.6 279.7 1.1 55.4% 0.56 0.8 ft (true width) Massive stibnite-quartz-gold-vein P 09SH11 ‘A’ zone 29.0 30.2 1.2 10.3% 0.12 1.0 ft (true width) Stibnite-quartz-Au vein. Zone was broken. P 09SH12 ‘A Zone’ 20.0 21.5 1.5 32.1% 0.05 1.2 ft (true width) stibnite-quartz vein P 09SH14 ‘A Zone’ 112.0 113.5 1.5 50.94% 0.03 Massive stibnite vein with a true width of 1.0 feet P 09SH15 ‘A Zone’ 162.5 163.4 0.9 35.5% 0.03 0.3 ft of massive stibnite Plus 0.6 ft of quartz-stibnite veinlets and stibnite strings P 09SH18 ‘A Zone’ 74.5 75.5 1.0 37.7% 5.72 Broken stibnite-quartz-gold vein with coarse visible wire gold. P 09SH19 ‘A Zone’ 173.8 176.2 2.4 14.7% 0.14 1.5 ft wide zone with 0.5 ft (true width) stibnite-quartz Vein (fragmental texture) and adjacent quartz-stibnite veinlets P 09SH20 ‘A Zone’ 205.0 206.5 1.5 2.7% 1.69 3.0 inch stibnite-quartz-arsenopyrite-gold vein that is part of a 5.5 ft densely veined zone P 09SH20 ‘A Zone’ Hanging Wall 190.5 195.0 4.5 2.0% 0.11 Chaotic quartz-stibnite and quartz- carbonate-gold stockwork 17 18 19 Independent Preliminary Feasibility Study Completed by Pacific Rim Geological Consulting Inc. During September 2008, Thomas K. Bundtzen of Pacific Rim Geological Consulting Inc. (the “QP”) was commissioned by the Company to perform a preliminary feasibility study of the Workman’s Bench Antimony and Gold Lode Deposit. Bundtzen is a third party (independent) and AIPG Certified Professional Geologist. Bundtzen is a “Qualified Person” as defined by NI 43-101 and also qualifies under the rules of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The significance of the preliminary feasibility study is that the resource estimates of the lode antimony and gold have been reclassified as a reserve and the deposit is an economically viable deposit. The information in the report was based on data as of October 15, 2008. The report was prepared as a National Instrument 43-101 Technical Report in accordance with Form 43- 101F, for the Company. Readers and investors need to take caution since the 43-101 technical report is under the guidelines of the British Columbia Securities Commission and that the United States Securities Exchange Commission does not recognize many of the terms used such as “indicated resources” and “inferred resources” and possibly other terms which are commonly used by the Canadian Institute of Mining (CIM). Readers should note that the results of the study post date the previous report by the QP released on July 29, 2008, and that the information in the recent report which includes resource estimates supersedes the July report. The results of the study were released on January 1, 2009 as amended June 1, 2009. The report in its entirety can be found at our website www.silverado.com. Some of the pertinent items discussed in the report are as follows: 1. Data Verification by the QP and QAQC of the Company’s Sample Management. 2. Mineral Processing and Metallurgical Testing of Bulk Sampled Material from the Underground Workings. 3. Summary of Resource and Reserve Estimates of the Antimony and Gold Lode Deposits. 4. Methodology and Modeling Used for the Lode Resource Estimates. 5. Waste Rock Management Plan 6. Mill Design (Pilot Mill) 7. Modeling Used for the Lode Resource Estimates. 8. Project Implementation Schedule. 9. Conclusions and Recommendations of the QP. Data Verification During numerous personal inspections of the Nolan Creek properties during 2007, 2008 and 2009, the QP observed sample collection and sample preparation practices for the Nolan Gold Projects lode-style deposits. On June 13 and 14 and September 28 and 29, 2008, the QP visited the Nolan Camp and examined all significantly mineralized core intervals acquired from the 2007 and 2008 drilling programs. A total of 124 mineralized intervals were examined. The analytical data was compared with each of the mineralized zones and confirmed the elevated antimony and gold values in the sampled areas. The QP observed core logging and trench samples being prepared for shipment from Nolan Creek during October 22 to October 23, 2007. The QP also observed Silverado contractors preparing placer samples for separation of placer gold, the subsequent weighing of recovered gold and calculation of gold per unit volume of material. In addition, the QP has access to detailed colored photos of all drill core from the 2007-2009 drill program at Nolan Creek. Judgments and determinations by the QP in regards to the Company’s sample preparation, analytical procedures and security of samples are discussed in the 43-101 technical reports. Any technical reports mentioned herein are included as supplemental documents that can be found on the Company Website at www.silverado.com. Nolan Lode Gold and Antimony Project 2011Work Plan The feasibility study performed by the QP and disclosed on January 5, 2009 will be a guideline for our future activities. Depending on funding and the acquisition of certain permits, the Company plans to fast track efforts toward the development stage. The Company will continue characterization studies of potential acid rock drainage issues and baseline water sampling as well as additional topographic surveys for planning and mine design. During 2011, lode exploration work will consist of additional diamond core drilling in several key areas throughout the property, as well as more test trenching and bedrock sampling along the northeast trending Solomon Shear Zone. The primary focus will be infill drilling in the intermediate area between the Pringle Bench and Workman’s Bench, as well as more infill drilling within the area drilled in 2008 and 2009 for more accurate resource estimates of the gold and antimony mineralized veins. Additional drilling on the property will be dependent on our completion of drilling in the former key areas. The planned drilling schedule is as follows: 20 Workman’s Bench - The Company plans to infill drill a minimum of 20 holes along the portion of Solomon Shear Zone that was drilled in 2008 and 2009, for a more accurate estimate of reserves. Silverado also plans to drill a minimum of 10 deeper holes beneath the current reserve block to expand resources or potentially expand the current probable reserve block. In addition, the Project will submit additional core samples from the north end of the prospect to check for low grade gold content that has potential for a bulk mineable resource. Pringle South – The Company plans to infill drill a minimum of 20 holes along the Solomon Shear Zone on the north side of Smith Creek in the area between the Pringle and Workman’s Benches to connect the Workman’s and Pringle Bench resource blocks. The Company plans to use a larger drill to set casing through the large boulder-rich overburden that has thwarted drill efforts in an area that is almost 600 feet in strike length. Both the extreme north and south ends of Workman’s and Pringle Bench have indicated other gold-bearing structures that are oblique to the northeast trending Solomon Shear Zone. The new and apparent gold-bearing structures and the type of gold mineralization combined with an increase in width of the zone indicate a potential for a bulk minable resource in this area. Hillside Area - A small area of bedrock underlying the Hillside Area was drilled in 2003 with an RC drill, but the drilling locations were based on limited bedrock trenching data. Since then, geophysical surveys and geochemical soil sampling surveys have defined much better drill targets. In 2011, the Company plans to drill exploratory holes to intercept the Solomon Shear Zone in this area. The Company also plans to take advantage of the historic trails and use an excavator to dig additional test trenches for surface bedrock channel sampling and to verify drill targets. Sample Collection, Sample Preparation, and Analytical Procedures All primary sample preparation from both lode and placer mineral exploration programs at Nolan Creek was conducted by professional geologists employed by Silverado. All work completed on behalf of Silverado was completed by or under the supervision of a contractor of Silverado. Officers, directors, and associates of Silverado were not involved in sample preparation. Independent, off-site analytical laboratories completed additional sample preparation of samples from the lode-style deposits. Analysis of placer samples is performed on-site by Silverado contractors. Analysis of lode-style deposit samples (core, percussion, trench, and underground channel) is performed by independent, off-site laboratories. Samples from placer deposits are analyzed in their entirety (i.e., no sub-sampling) to minimize potential bias from sub-sampling of material with such a large proportion of gold nuggets. The primary sample is processed through a gravity separation technique at the drill rig to separate gold nugget, fine gold, and heavy minerals from the host gangue material. A systematic procedure was developed by geological staff for the collection and preparation of percussion drill hole samples. The sample is emitted from the drill and immediately submitted to a drill-mounted cyclone to dissipate the sample velocity, and then passed through a JonesTM splitter. The split sample is then processed through a Denver Gold SaverTM. The oversize exits the revolving drum screen to a picking plate where +1/4 inch nuggets are hand-picked. The – 1/4 inch undersize reports to a Teflon lateral action sluice and the resultant heavy mineral concentrate is hand-panned. The gold in the concentrate is then picked with tweezers. The remaining fine heavy concentrate is treated with amalgamation and the resultant gold bead is weighed along with the hand-picked gold with a ChampTM electronic balance. 21 The Company judges that the combined weight of the hand-picked gold and the fine gold represents most of the gold in the sampled interval. Since there will always be some loss of gold during this analytical procedure, the gold grade in the sample is not likely to be overstated. Silverado conducted volume measurements of samples collected during 2003 and 2004 drilling programs. Results of these measurements showed that a 5 foot sample from the Nolan Deep Channel averaged 14.80 gallons, whereas a 5 foot sample from the Mary’s East Bench deposit averaged 19.20 gallons. The Nolan Deep Channel deposits contain significant amounts of silt, sand, and clay, whereas the left limit bench deposits such as those at Mary’s East are much coarser grained. Determination of volumetric measurements results in a more accurate estimate of gold grade in the placer deposit. Hence, each placer deposit has been volume-characterized by Silverado contractors during exploration. Sample grades for placer deposits are expressed as gold content per bank volume of material where bank volume is the in situ volume of material. To calculate the bank volume the sample volume must be factored using a predefined swell factor that quantifies how much the volume of the sample increases as a result of extraction. The weight of the gold extracted from the sample (the method of recovery which was described previously) is divided by the bank volume of the sample to determine the grade of the sample expressed in oz/cu yd Au. Two methods are traditionally used by Silverado to estimate gold grades in a placer resource. One method is to calculate the amount of gold present in a bank cubic yard or ounces gold/cubic yard. When all of the values are on or near the bedrock-gravel interface, an alternative method of estimating gold quantities in a placer deposit is the amount of gold present on one square foot of surface area on bedrock, known as a bedrock square foot or ‘bsf’. Since most of the placer gold in the Nolan Deep Channel and in left limit benches are ‘bedrock placers’, some Silverado geologists have expressed gold values in exploration drill programs in ‘bsf’. This value varies with the thickness of auriferous materials both above and below the bedrock-gravel interface. Silverado has established conversion factors for converting ounces gold/bsf to ounces gold/cubic yard, which systematically varied from valley floor and bench deposits. All drill hole grade data is expressed in ounces gold per cubic yard. Sample recovery calculations have been implemented by Silverado geological staff. The bsf method was used by the “old time miners” on the property as the steep bedrock terrain created extreme variables in vertical pay sections laying on bedrock, varying from one to fifteen feet thick. Therefore, cubic yard measurements could be misleading in estimating and measuring a deposit. Measuring deposits in valley bottoms or large bench areas allowed accurate calculations for those areas using the volumetric (i.e., bcy) method. Diamond core samples are split in half on-site by Silverado personnel using a core saw. Half of the core is submitted to external laboratories for analysis and half is retained on site. Samples from RC drilling are split with a splitter and surface samples are split by contracted laboratory personnel. ALS Chemex of Vancouver, Canada, an ISO 9001:2000 accredited laboratory, has analyzed most of the Silverado sample stream from lode-style deposits. More recently, Alaska Assay Laboratories LLC of Fairbanks, Alaska, an ANS/ISO/IEC Standard 17035:2005 accredited laboratory, has been used by Silverado for analytical work. Both laboratories produce a coarse split from which a finely ground material to 150 mesh is analyzed. The pulverized material and the coarse reject are stored by the laboratories for possible re-analysis. Trench and drill core samples submitted to ALS Chemex are analyzed by the following methods: ME-MS41 (41 multi element), Au-AA23 (fire assay gold to 5 ppb level), and SbAA65 (> 1% antimony or referred to as ‘ore grade’ antimony). Soil samples shipped to ALS Chemex are analyzed for the same packages with the exception of the ore grade antimony or Sb-AA65. Samples submitted to Alaska Assay Laboratories LLC were analyzed using the following methods: Au-30 element (multi-element), fire assay AA for gold and silver, and ICP-4A (ore-grade antimony). The packages from each laboratory are roughly comparable in both elemental suite and analytical methods. Quality Control and Quality Assurance Quality control and quality assurance (QC/QA) is routinely performed by Silverado exploration contractors. Standards have been obtained from Shea Clark Smith, a geochemist based in Tucson, Arizona that supplies standards for mining companies. For core intervals intersecting vein zones, two standards and one blank are randomly inserted in batches of twenty (20) sample intervals. One standard contains 0.174 oz/ton gold. The other standard contains 0.261 oz/ton gold. For core penetrating mainly wall rock zones, one standard and one blank are randomly inserted into batches of twenty (20) samples, with the standard used containing 0.174 oz/ton gold. 22 Core recovery is checked in every box coming off the drill rig. During 2008 and 2009, Silverado's geological contractors have reported that core recovery averaged 95% since the exploration drilling switched to NQ core. Silverado contractors have competently prepared samples analysis and dispatch to external laboratories. All drill core is digitally photographed on site, and the photos are kept on file for future reference as needed. All photos from the 2007 and 2008 drill programs were submitted to the QP for additional verification. Sample security is maintained by geological contractors. Samples are stored in a secure trailer at Nolan Camp. Individual samples are composited into larger rice bags and sealed with wire ties. Samples are then transported by contractors to the ALS Chemex preparation laboratory in Fairbanks, Alaska. The analytical package selected from external assay laboratories reflects the need to: obtain precise antimony and gold values, obtain information on trace metals such as bismuth, lead, arsenic, cadmium, and selenium, and to seek to understand background levels of other elements for environmental monitoring reasons. Because Silverado is evaluating the lode resources of the area for potential development, it is useful for Silverado to take a broad look at the elemental suite present in the affected environment in order to better design an environmental monitoring program. Data from Workman’s Bench shows Ca values as high as 17.50 percent. This may indicate a high CaCO3 content of some sample intervals. Recent (2008) core logging criteria requires the geologist to do a cold diluted HCL acid test of the drill core while logging the core as a field test of the carbonate (buffering potential) content of the bedrock. The rock encountered in the zones of interest have elevated sulfide contents that could pose an acid drainage problem during future mining operations. The Company tracks both the sulfide content and the carbonate content for acid-base accounting purposes. In addition, marketability issues are being addressed. Some metals are considered to be deleterious in antimony purchases. For example, most antimony smelters will not accept material that exceeds 0.5% combined lead and arsenic. Smaller amounts of selenium and bismuth also pose potential limitations and may invoke smelter penalties. Hence a broader suite of elemental information has been acquired during the exploration of what is basically an antimony-gold-arsenic system. Mineralogical Processing and Metallurgical Testing Results of the 414 lb Bulk Sample. Until very recently, Silverado had not completed mineral processing or processing tests of lode mineralization in the Nolan Creek area. Silverado has acquired a permit from the USBLM to collect and process a maximum 1,000 cu yd of material from the Workman’s Bench lode for metallurgical testing. The bulk sample will be collected for a more accurate determination of grinding, flotation, and other processing and mineralogical characteristics of the stibnite. The bulk sample will also determine the mineralogical nature of the gold and help determine the Company’s recent conclusions that there is a gold ‘nugget effect’ associated with the stibnite veins, and the larger bulk samples will serve to better ascertain a more accurate gold to antimony ratio for the Workman’s Bench deposit. In April 2008, the QP collected a 414 lb bulk sample of semi-massive to massive stibnite, vein quartz, and wall rock gangue all from the defined mineralized ‘A’ Zone in the Workman’s Bench underground workings. The purpose was to determine the mineralogical nature of the antimony mineralization and the source of significant gold values. There is much variation in gold content of the stibnite zones even within constrained sample collection areas. The bulk sample was sent to Hazen Research Labs Inc. (Hazen) in Golden, Colorado, USA in order to discover the most optimal grind for potential marketing of a stibnite product, identify the mineralogical nature of gold and antimony values in the mineralization. Two reports were produced by Hazen in September: 1) Report #1 - Flotation and Gravity Results, Workman’s Bench Stibnite-Gold Deposit, Wiseman District, Alaska; and 2) Report #2 - Mineralogical Examination, Workman’s Bench Stibnite-Gold Deposit, Wiseman District. Summary of Hazen’s Report #1 - Rod mill grinding followed by two rougher stages yielded a gold recovery of 98% and an antimony recovery of nearly 100% in 37.8 percent of the weight, which strongly indicates flotation may be a viable process for recovering gold and antimony at Workman’s Bench. The gold and antimony grades from the sample were 0.546oz/ton (as stated, 18.7 g/t) and 36.7 percent respectively, which compare fairly closely to the average inferred resource grades of 39.13 % antimony and 0.395 oz/ton gold from ‘A’ Zone. Gravity separation using a quarter DeisterTM shaking table produced a second, cleaner gold and arsenopyrite concentrate that assayed 9.4 oz/ton (356.0 g/t) gold. This test work indicates that coarse gold and coarse stibnite can likely be recovered by gravity separation; however, fine grained components of both mineralogical products may require flotation. Given the tendency for stibnite to ‘slime’, a flotation circuit may be an important prerequisite for a recovery system. Using gravity only methods would result in a stibnite recovery of approximately 85 percent, and gold recovery of about 90 percent. No duplicate flotation and gravity confirmation tests were completed by Hazen Research Labs Inc. Summary of Hazen’s Report #2 – The second report involved a different separation process that included a heavy liquid with a specific gravity of 2.96 (acetylene tetrabromide) for separation of the heavy minerals for statistical analysis and to determine the nature of the gold occurrence. The heavy liquid sink produced 85% stibnite, 10% gangue, 3% pyrite, 2% arsenopyrite, 1 % Rutile, and native gold. 23 Further metallurgical testing may prove that acceptable gold and antimony recoveries from slimes may be obtained through the side of the high centrifugal force effect provided by a Falcon Concentrator. If this proves to be the case, then the more costly flotation process may be avoided. Budget projections for this project are detailed under the section “Projected Annual Budget for Fiscal Year 2011”. We are a mineral exploration company with interests in properties located throughout the state of Alaska. The majority of such properties are in the early stages of exploration, and there is no assurance that a commercially viable mineral deposit exists on all of such properties. Effective January 1, 2009, based on completion of a preliminary feasibility study, our Nolan Gold and Antimony Lode Project has disclosed an economically viable mineral reserve. The preliminary feasibility study concluded that the resource estimates disclosed by the Company in its Current Report on Form 8-K on November 17, 2008 can be reclassified as a probable reserve. Though there were no material changes to the grades and quantities previously reported on November 17, 2008, there was additional data produced that added new grades and there was further work conducted on this zone that resulted in the aforementioned reclassification. 2. Ester Dome Property 2.1 Ester Dome Property 2010 Work Summary The properties comprising our Ester Dome gold project are discussed in detail under the heading Description of Properties herein. In recent years, all exploration trenches were backfilled, stabilized, and seeded to resist surface erosion. Annual assessment work for 2010 was completed. 2.2 Ester Dome Property 2011 Work Plan During 2011, we plan to continue work toward completion of the closure of the Grant Mill Tailings Pond, as part of our asset retirement obligations. This pond, which is filled to capacity with tailings, will be capped and decommissioned after a final approval of the tailings pond closure plan is received from the Alaska Department of Environmental Conservation (“ADEC”). Currently the Company is waiting on a report from Shannon and Wilson Inc., an engineering and environmental firm that is in the process of completing a study that is needed for the Company to move to the next phase of required permitting needed before the decommission process can take place. The Company remains in good standing with the state regulators and will continue reclamation work on our Ester Dome holdings during 2011. Several large-scale projects have been proposed over the past ten years, but shelved either as a result of poor market conditions or due to internal decisions to favor shifting financial and manpower resources to the Nolan Project. One project that remains under consideration is environmentally friendly bio-degradable urea heap leaching of crushed and agglomerated gold ore after coarse gold has been recovered from the crushed ore by conventional gravity and water methods. A second project that continues under study involves mining of the O'Dea structure by underground methods. All past mining stopped at the 200 foot level of the workings, which is just above the water table. Close spaced diamond drilling between the 200 foot and 1,000 foot levels prove the existence of several significant high grade ore shoots within the O’Dea breccia zone. 3. Hammond Property 3.1 Hammond Property 2010 Summary The placer claims comprising our Hammond property are discussed in detail under the heading Description of Properties in this annual report. During 2010, rental payments were made to keep the mining claims in good standing. 3.2 Hammond Property 2011 Work Plan To date, the Nolan Creek Deep Channel placer deposit and the Hammond River Slisco Channel have the greatest exploration potential for an economically viable placer deposit. Both prospects require more RC drilling and analysis. Although the Company has been focusing on the Nolan Creek property, the current price in gold may increase interest in this property. RC placer drilling in 1995 and 2006 identified a channel containing placer gold that extends for a length of over 1,800 feet. The channel, named the Slisco Channel, remains open to the southeast and there is evidence of one or more tributary channels that remain to be explored in the near future. Within the Slisco Channel, the placer gold occurs on bedrock and on a second horizon about 20 feet above the bedrock channel. 24 The higher placer gold values in both pay layers are located within the left limit of the Slisco Channel. In addition to the encouraging drill results to date, the potential of extending the channel to the southeast plus the possibility of discovering gold bearing tributary channels, make this a prospect for additional discoveries This project may require the Company to secure additional funding needed for infill drilling which is needed for resource estimates. Even if funding is acquired, there is no guarantee that a commercial gold bearing placer deposit will be developed. Even if a gold bearing deposit is developed, additional funding will be required to mine the deposit, and until a feasibility study is completed, there is no guarantee that the deposit will be profitable to mine. 4. Eagle Creek Property 4.1 Eagle Creek Property 2010 Work Summary The Eagle Creek property is discussed in detail under the heading Description of Properties in this annual report. Annual assessment work for 2010 was completed and all mining claim rental payments were made. Exploration work during 2010 involved a new mineral assessment of the Eagle Creek property. The assessment involved compiling the abundance of exploration data that spanned a period of over 40 years and included data from Silverado Gold Mines Inc. and American Copper and Nickel as well as two other mining companies. The preliminary assessment noted several potential gold mineralized structural targets referred to as vein-faults. The mineral assessment included collecting 26 rock samples for geochemical analysis from the property. The assay results and the interpretation of these results were disclosed in variousnews releases. To review these news releases readers and investors are encouraged to visit the Company website www.silverado.com. 4.2 Eagle Creek Property 2011 Work Plan During 2011, the Company will seek funding for an exploration program that will target the gold-bearing vein-faults. Currently, the Company has applied for essential permits to allow both a trenching and drilling program at the property in 2011. The 2011 exploration program is referred to by the Company as a phase 1 program. The permit application (APMA) is for a 3 year permit which will end in December of 2013. The Company plans to drill 6 to 10 drill holes for a total of 2,500 feet as well as excavate a minimum of 300 feet of bulldozed trenches for near surface bedrock geochemical assays and geologic interpretation. Depending on the results of the phase 1 program, the Company may or may not move forward with additional subsurface exploration. The vein-faults which include the Scrafford deposit (historic antimony producer) have higher gold grades but are lower tonnage deposits relative to the previous targets of exploration which were bulk-minable intrusive hosted deposits located along the west side of the property. Completing the 2011work listed in this work plan will be contingent on available funding. Even if funding becomes available, there is no assurance that a commercial gold-silver antimony deposit will be defined. 2011 Exploration Budget Projected Annual Budget for Fiscal Year 2010: Nolan Gold and Antimony Project: Drilling $ 3,600,000 Construction and Permitting 1,000,000 Core Logging and Assaying 600,000 Drill Pads, Roads and Culverts 400,000 Total Budget All Projects 13,560,000 Equipment Purchase 2,000,000 Fuel and Supplies 700,000 Contingencies 1,700,000 Total Costs for the Nolan Gold and Antimony Project 10,000,000 Total Costs for the Eagle Creek Project 20,000 Total Costs for the Ester Dome Project 520,000 Total Costs for the Hammond Project 20,000 Administration – Head and Field Offices 3,000,000 Completion of all of the projects described in the 2011 work plan will be contingent on additional funding. There is no assurance that additional funding will be obtained. Even if the additional funding is obtained, there is no assurance that a commercial ore deposit will be developed. Revenues from any anticipated gold and antimony sales are projected to be profitable. 25 LOW-RANK COAL-WATER FUEL BUSINESS We entered the fuel sector in 2000 by forming a new Fuel Technology division which operates out of Fairbanks, Alaska. This division of the business is operated by our wholly owned subsidiary, Silverado Green Fuel Inc. Our determination to enter into this business was based on a decision to broaden our business beyond mineral exploration and production. The fuel product is called low-rank coal-water fuel (LRCWF or Green Fuel), which is a low-cost, non-toxic, non-hazardous alternative to oil fuels used in commercial boilers for the production of electricity and industrial heat. As a liquid fuel Green Fuel enjoys all the benefits of liquid handling and storage, Green Fuel allows coal to be used sight unseen and is made from coal, America’s most abundant fossil energy resource. This fuel is produced by the fine grinding of low-rank coal, and subsequent hydrothermal treatment of the finely ground coal particles. Hydrothermal treatment (HT) is an advanced technology, featuring moderate temperature/pressure, non-evaporative treatment or hot water drying, which irreversibly removes most of the inherent moisture from low-rank coal and allows the formulation of commercially viable LRCWFs. HT is similar in many respects to pressure cooking, and the product retains all of the desirable combustion characteristics of low-rank coal. When Green Fuel is injected into a boiler, the particles ignite and burn rapidly, which leads to little or no boiler de-rating when substituted for oil. We believe that demand for the Green Fuel and its production and utilization technology exists because of the high cost of oil and the desire for economical alternatives to oil that are environmentally friendly. Silverado is currently having a $150,000 study conducted on the chemical and physical characteristics of Mississippi Red Hills Lignite Coal at the Mineral Industry Research Laboratory at the University of Alaska (Fairbanks) (the “UAF”). In December 2009, the Company received a letter from the UAF requesting the extension of the results by the end of 2011. Results of the tests as well as capital availability and an increase in oil prices would all have to be positive for Silverado Green Fuel Inc. to reconsider construction of its LRCWF project. This aspect of our business is still in the start-up phase of operations and no revenues have been achieved to date. We do not anticipate that revenues from this technology will be achieved until commercialization of the technology has been established. GOVERNMENT REGULATION Silverado and its subsidiaries collectively own (or partially own), lease, and/or hold purchase options on numerous federal and state placer and lode mining claims on the Nolan, Slisco, Eagle, and Ester properties, all of which are located in Alaska. These 801 total claims consist of: (i) 672 federal mining claims, comprised of 228 federal placer claims and 444 federal lode claims, and (ii) 129 state mining claims (the state of Alaska does not distinguish between placer and lode rights within each state mining claim). The Company’s interests with respect to each specific property are currently as follows: Nolan - Silverado is the sole owner of 204 federal placer mining claims and 407 federal lode mining claims. Hammond (Slisco) – Silverado leases 24 federal placer mining claims and 36 federal lode mining claims from Alaska Mining Company, Inc.(ALMINCO) Eagle Creek – Silverado has an equal (50%) ownership interest in 77 state mining claims with Kathleen King. Ester Dome – Silverado is party to an agreement for the conditional purchase of 22 state mining claims from Paul I. Barelka, Donald J. May, and Mark Thoennes; Silverado leases 1 federal lode mining claim and 4 state mining claims from Gilbert Dobbs; and Silverado is party to an agreement for the conditional purchase of 26 state mining claims from Roger C. Burggraf. The following is a brief description, in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of Industry Guide 7, of the title, claim, lease, and/or option instruments under which Silverado and its subsidiaries have or will have the right to hold or operate its properties, the conditions which must be met in order to obtain or retain such properties, and the expiration dates of any leases or options, as well as certain other material terms: i. Lease Of Mining Claims With Option To Purchase - The Hammond (Slisco) Property Pursuant to that certain Lease Of Mining Claims With Option To Purchase, effective December 14, 1994, as amended on July 5, 1996 and on August 21, 1996 (the “Lease”), Silverado leased certain unpatented placer mining claims and lode mining claims recorded in Fairbanks, Alaska (collectively, “Claims”), and obtained an option to purchase such Claims, from Alaska Mining Company, Inc. (“ALMINCO”). 26 The Lease had an initial term of five years, but has been extended on a year-to-year basis on the same terms and will be in good standing for as long as the covenants in the Lease remain satisfied. Silverado materially covenanted to (i) perform certain work and make certain expenditures on the Claims; (ii) obtain all licenses, permits, and bonds required by law; (iii) timely complete all required annual assessment work required for the Claims; (iv) pay the rents due to the United States on the Claims each year; (v) maintain adequate workers compensation insurance; (vi) indemnify ALMINCO for all losses and injuries not due to its own negligence; (vii) carry public liability insurance of at least $500,000 and name ALMINCO as an additional insured; (viii) indemnify ALMINCO for any liabilities or fines assessed by local, state, or federal governmental agencies that result from Silverado’s operations, actions, or omissions; (ix) refrain from pledging the Lease as security for any debt or to allow any liens to remain effective against the Lease or the Claims; and (x) refrain from assigning the Lease for the benefit of creditors or to seek protection from creditors under applicable bankruptcy laws. The Lease obliges Silverado to make royalty payments equal to 10% of gross production from certain of the Claims each year, as well as minimum royalty payments of $20,000 on the first anniversary of the Lease, $40,000 on the second anniversary, and $80,000 on each of the third and subsequent anniversaries of the Lease. During the initial term, Silverado had an option to purchase the placer claims for $500,000 less royalty payments and an option to purchase the lode claims for $300,000, each subject to applicable price adjustments. Silverado has an option to purchase certain additional lode claims for $5,000,000. Under the Lease, Silverado may cure any default relating to required royalty payments within thirty (30) days following notice of such default from ALMINCO, after which time ALMINCO may terminate the Lease if such default has not been cured. ALMINCO may not terminate the Lease for any other default for so long as Silverado is diligently attempting to cure such default. ii. Lease and Purchase Agreement (King) - The Eagle Creek Property Silverado has an equal (50%) ownership interest in 77 state mining claims with Kathleen King (“King”). Silverado will acquire a full (100%) ownership interest in such state mining claims upon the payment of an additional $38,000 to King in installments of $5,000 per year. iii. Agreement For Conditional Purchase And Sale Of Mining Property (May et. al.) - The Ester Dome Property Silverado is party to an Agreement For Conditional Purchase And Sale Of Mining Property (the “1979 Agreement”), dated May 12, 1979, with Donald J. May, Paul I. Barelka, and Mark Thoennes (collectively, the “Sellers”) pursuant to which Silverado agreed to conditionally purchase certain unpatented state mining claims located in Fairbanks, Alaska (the “1979 Claims”), including all other then-owned and after-acquired mining claims or interests in mining claims within one mile of any portion of the 1979 Claims, from the Sellers. The state mining claims formerly belonging to Thoennes were acquired by Barelka and May who have deeded the claims to Polar Mining Inc. and The Fairbanks Rescue Mission respectively. The present owners of the mining claims covered under the above agreement are Fairbanks Rescue Mission and Polar Mining, Inc. The term of the 1979 Agreement commenced on the date Silverado took possession of the 1979 Claims and will expire upon the earlier of (i) the purchase price therefore being paid in full, or (ii) a default remaining uncured for more than sixty (60) days after the date of the written notice of such default. Title to the 1979 Claims will pass to Silverado upon its payment in full of the purchase price of $2,000,000. The purchase price is payable at 15% of net profits (as such term is defined in the 1979 Agreement) per year, adjusted for inflation, calculated on a quarterly basis, and payable within sixty (60) days of the end of each calendar quarter. Upon full payoff of the purchase price, the Sellers will be entitled to a royalty payment in the form of a carried interest of 3% of net profits from Silverado’s operations until production on the 1979 Claims is permanently terminated. Under the 1979 Agreement, Silverado also covenanted to: (i) perform annual assessment work beginning with the assessment year ending September 1, 1980; (ii) refrain from permitting any liens or levies to be placed against the 1979 Claims, and timely pay any taxes imposed on the 1979 Claims, each until such time title is conveyed to Silverado; (iii) indemnify the Sellers from any claims arising from Silverado’s operations and conditions on the 1979 Claims arising after the date of possession; and (iv) obtain and maintain adequate insurance. In the event of default, the Sellers must provide written notice to cure to Silverado. If the Silverado fails to cure such default within sixty (60) days after the date of such notice, the non-defaulting party’s remedy is to arbitrate the issue in accordance with the terms of the 1979 Agreement. 27 iv. Exploration And Mining Lease - The Ester Property Silverado and Gilbert Dobbs (“Dobbs”) entered into an Exploration And Mining Lease (“Dobbs Lease”), dated November 6, 1984, as amended on August 4, 1996, pursuant to which Silverado leased from Dobbs three federal lode mining claims in Fairbanks, Alaska known as the Moose Claim (BLM F061722), the Rosie Claim (BLM F061724) and the Brandy Claim (BLM F06 1725) (collectively, the “Dobbs Claims”), and all exploration, mining, and water rights associated therewith. The above federal Rosie and Brandy claims have been converted to four state mining claims: Rosie 1 (ADL575826), Rosie 2 (ADL575827), Brandy 1 (ADL575828), and Brandy 2 (ADL575829). The Dobbs Lease had an initial term of ten (10) years, with automatic renewals for additional five (5) year terms to take effect beginning on November 6, 1999 and every fifth year thereafter if, at the commencement of each renewal period, the Dobbs Lease remains in good standing and Silverado pays US $10,000 to Dobbs. In order for the Dobbs Lease to remain in good standing and for each renewal to take effect, Silverado must make royalty payments equal to 15% of the net profits (as such term is defined in the Dobbs Lease) derived from its operations on the Dobbs Claims. Such payments are due within sixty (60) days after the end of each calendar quarter. Once Silverado has paid $1,500,000 in aggregate royalty payments to Dobbs, subsequent royalty payments will be reduced to 3% of net profits derived from operations on the Dobbs Claims. Furthermore, Silverado must (i) perform annual assessment work beginning with the assessment year ending September 1, 1985; (ii) expend at least $1,500 per year on the Dobbs Claims until the $1,500,000 threshold is met (with such expenditures to be credited toward meeting such threshold); (iii) refrain from permitting any liens or levies to be placed against the Dobbs Claims, and timely pay any taxes imposed on the Dobbs Claims; (iv) indemnify Dobbs from any claims arising from Silverado’s operations and conditions on the Dobbs Claims arising after the date of possession; and (v) obtain and maintain adequate insurance. In the event of default, the non-defaulting party must provide written notice to cure to the defaulting party. If the defaulting party fails to cure such default within sixty (60) days after the date of such notice, the non-defaulting party’s remedy is to arbitrate the issue in accordance with the terms of the Dobbs Lease. v. Agreement For Conditional Purchase And Sale Of Mining Property (Burggraf) - The Ester Property Silverado is party to an Agreement For Conditional Purchase And Sale Of Mining Property (the “1978 Agreement”), dated October 6, 1978, with Roger C. Burggraf (“Burggraf”) pursuant to which Silverado agreed to conditionally purchase six unpatented lode mining claims located in Fairbanks, Alaska (the “1978 Claims”), including all other subsequently located or acquired claims and interests in mining property within two miles of any portion of the 1978 Claims, from Burggraf. The 1978 Claims are identified as: Irishman No.1, Roosevelt, Banjo, O’Dea, White Rock Lode, and D. and Z. The term of the 1978 Agreement commenced on the date Silverado took possession of the 1978 Claims and will continue until the earlier of (i) the purchase price therefor being paid in full, (ii) a default by Silverado remaining uncured for more than sixty (60) days after the date of the written notice of such default, or (iii) Silverado providing sixty (60) days notice of termination to Burggraf. Title to the 1978 Claims will pass to Silverado upon its payment in full of the purchase price of $2,000,000. The purchase price is payable at 15% of net profits (as such term is defined in the 1978 Agreement) per year, calculated on a quarterly basis, and payable within sixty (60) days of the end of each calendar quarter. The 1978 Agreement also called for Silverado to issue an aggregate of 100,000 shares of its common stock to Burggraf over the course of four (4) years from the date thereof. Once Silverado pays the purchase price in full to Burggraf, it will be obligated to make royalty payments equal to 3% of net profits derived from its operations on the 1978 Claims until production is terminated. Furthermore, if any agreement is reached with a third party concerning properties owned by such third party within two miles of any portion of the 1978 Claims, Burggraf will be entitled to royalty payments equal to 2% of net profits derived from Silverado’s operations on the 1978 Claims. The original six federal unpatented federal lode claims incorporated in the “1978 Agreement with Burgraff” have been converted to state mining claims: Grant 26-31(ADL 536564-536569). All mining claims under the agreement are now state mining claims. Silverado is also obligated to (i) perform annual assessment work beginning with the assessment year ending September 1, 1979; (ii) expend up to $15,000 per year on the 1978 Claims until the $2,000,000 purchase price is paid (with such expenditures to be credited toward Silverado’s payment of the purchase price); (iii) refrain from permitting any liens or levies to be placed against the 1978 Claims, and timely pay any taxes imposed thereon; (iv) indemnify Burggraf from any claims arising from Silverado’s operations and conditions on the 1978 Claims arising after the date of possession; and (v) obtain and maintain adequate insurance. In the event of default, the non-defaulting party must provide written notice to cure to the defaulting party. If the defaulting party fails to cure such default within sixty (60) days after the date of such notice, the non-defaulting party’s remedy is to arbitrate the issue in accordance with the terms of the 1978 Agreement. 28 The maximum size of a federal placer mining claim is 20 acres, and the maximum size of a federal lode mining claim is 20.7 acres. The maximum size of a state of Alaska mining claim is 40 acres. Given the occasional necessity of forming 'fractional' mining claims to infill between properties or to account for staking or survey errors, and using these maximum sizes, we estimate that Silverado either owns or leases a total of approximately 8,400 acres of federal lode claims, 4,050 acres of federal placer claims, and 5,125 acres of state mining claims. COMPETITION We are a mineral resource exploration company. We compete with other mineral resource exploration companies for financing and for the acquisition of new mineral properties. Many of the mineral resource exploration companies with whom we compete have greater financial and technical resources than those available to us. Accordingly, these competitors may be able to spend greater amounts on acquisitions of mineral properties of merit, on exploration of their mineral properties and on development of their mineral properties. In addition, they may be able to afford more geological expertise in the targeting and exploration of mineral properties. This competition could result in competitors having mineral properties of greater quality and interest to prospective investors who may finance additional exploration. This competition could adversely impact on our ability to finance further exploration and to achieve the financing necessary for us to develop our mineral properties. MARKET We are a mineral exploration company with gold and antimony exploration properties located in U.S.A. The gold and antimony metal markets have been strong since 2001, where the gold price has increased from $268 per ounce to over $1,000 per ounce to its current price of $1,380 as of November 30, 2010. Antimony metal price has increased from $0.69 per pound to its current price of approximately $5.30 per pound as of November 30, 2010. Management believes that both the gold and antimony markets will remain strong for the foreseeable future. EMPLOYEES We do not have any employees. Our operating and administrative activities are carried out through our agreements with the Tri-Con Mining Group and other independent consultants. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENDITURES The majority of the research and development costs attributable to the low-rank coal-water fuel technology related to further technical work on the fuel creation temperature. We have spent $nil on research and development activities during the past two fiscal years. December 1, 2009 December 1, 2008 to November 30, 2010 to November 30, 2009 Research and Development Expenditures $ -- $ -- ENFORCEABILITY OF CIVIL LIABILITIES Our headquarters are located in, and our officers and directors are residents of, British Columbia, Canada. Further, some of our assets are, or may be, located outside the United States. Accordingly, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States on us or our officers and directors, or to enforce against them judgments obtained in United States courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws. There is also uncertainty as to both an investor’s ability to enforce, in an appropriate foreign court, judgments of United States courts based upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws, and an investor’s ability to bring an original action in an appropriate foreign court to enforce liabilities against us or any person based upon the United States federal securities laws. If investors have questions with respect to these issues, they should seek the advice of their legal counsel. ENVIRONMENT POLICY Silverado is committed to contributing to a prosperous economy through the sustainable development of natural resources while remaining protective of the health of its workers and the public, and the state of the natural environment, through wise stewardship of our land, air and water. We recognize that fundamental to this commitment are the following principles: 29 Maintaining environmental, health and safety standards that minimize risks at levels as low as reasonably achievable; Preventing pollution through the application of economically feasible, proven technologies, procedures and processes; Meeting and exceeding legal and regulatory compliance requirements; and Committing to an environmental program of continual review and improvement. In furtherance of these principles we continue to maintain this environmental policy as a top-priority management theme, and apply environmental management systems (EMS) that conform with the International Organization for Standardization’s (ISO) 14001 guidelines, including the structure, planning, practices, procedures and processes necessary for developing, implementing, achieving, reviewing and maintaining our environmental policy. To that end we will make every effort to: Conduct careful and continuous monitoring of all our operations and their impacts on the environment, human health and safety; Identify and document those aspects of our activities which have, or could reasonably be expected to have, environmental impacts; Systematically identify all relevant legal and regulatory requirements and industry standards of practice, and honor an ongoing commitment of compliance; Set environmental objectives and targets that address our overall environmental policy, minimize or eliminate environmental impacts, and meet or exceed legal and regulatory requirements; Monitor and measure performance against our environmental objectives and targets, and routinely channel this information back into our EMS; Develop and apply technically proven and economically feasible measures through workplans which document our environmental, legal and regulatory targets and how they are to be achieved, and communicate these workplans with our employees; Apply environmental management practices which are flexible and adaptive to changes in production processes, regulatory requirements, and other factors which may affect our operations; and Continually improve our environmental programs through regular management reviews which address the possible need to change policies, objectives, targets and other elements of our EMS. REPORTS TO STOCKHOLDERS Silverado files reports regularly with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). The public may read and copy any materials we have filed with SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE., Washington, DC 20549, on official business days during the hours of 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling SEC at 1–800–SEC–0330. SEC maintains an Internet site, http://www.sec.gov/edgar.shtml, that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information filed electronically with SEC. We have also posted our financial information and news releases on the Company’s website at: http://www.silverado.com. 30 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We face risks in completing our exploration plans and achieving revenues. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently know to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of these risks occur, our business, our ability to achieve revenues, our ability to produce gold, our operating results and our financial condition could be seriously harmed and your investment may be lost entirely. If we do not obtain new financings, the amount of funds available to us to pursue exploration activities at the Nolan Gold Project and to pursue further exploration of our mineral properties will be reduced. We have relied on recent private placement financings in order to fund exploration of the Nolan Gold Project. We will continue to require additional financing to complete our plan of operations for exploration work at the Nolan Gold Project and to carry out our exploration programs on our other mineral properties. While our financing requirements may be reduced through gold recoveries, any impairment in our ability to raise additional funds through financings would reduce the available funds for the exploration of the Nolan Gold Project, including additional test mining activities, with the result that our plan of operations may be adversely affected and potential recoveries reduced or delayed. As we have incurred significant losses in the past, there is no assurance that we will be able to achieve the financing necessary to enable us to proceed with our exploration activities, including test mining activities. We had deficit working capital as of November 30, 2010 and we have incurred significant losses in the past and did not report revenues in our last three fiscal years ended November 30, 2010, 2009 or 2008. Our 2011 plan of operations calls for expenditures of several millions of dollars to be incurred by us over the next twelve months in order to continue our drilling and exploration activities at the Nolan Gold, Ester Dome, Eagle Creek and Hammond Projects. We will require substantial financing in order for us to pursue our plan of operations. If we do not achieve the necessary financing, then we will not be able to proceed with our planned exploration activities, including our planned test mining activities, and our financial condition, business prospects and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. We are a mineral exploration company with interests in properties located throughout the state of Alaska. The majority of such properties are in various stages of exploration, and there is no assurance that a commercially viable mineral deposit exists on any of such properties. Thomas K. Bundtzen, an independent third party mining consultant and an AIPG and NI 43-101 Qualified Person, completed a Preliminary Feasibility Study for the Company’s Nolan Creek Property effective January 1, 2009 (amended June 1, 2009). The study concluded that the lode gold and antimony deposit underlying Workman’s Bench and the southwestern portion of the Solomon Shear Zone contain probable reserves. Nevertheless, there is no assurance that we will be able to recover quantities of gold and antimony in these areas or in any others that will enable us to achieve sales of gold and antimony that will exceed our costs of recovering the gold and antimony. If we are unable to achieve projected gold recoveries from our test mining activities at the Nolan Gold Project, then our financial condition will be adversely affected and we will have less cash with which to pursue our operations. We plan to undertake test mining activities as part of our exploration program for the Nolan Gold Project. Our objective is to recover gold from test mining activities to offset the exploration cost of our test mining activities. As we have not established any reserves on this property, there is no assurance that actual recoveries of gold from material mined during test mining activities will equal or exceed our exploration costs. If gold recoveries are less than projected, then our gold sales will be less than anticipated and may not equal or exceed the cost of exploration and recovery in which case our operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected. If the price of gold declines, our financial condition and ability to obtain future financings will be impaired. Our business is extremely dependent on the price of gold and the price of gold as well as other precious base metals has experienced volatile and significant price movements over short periods of time and is affected by numerous factors beyond our control. If gold prices decline prior to the recovery and sale of gold from the Nolan Gold Project, then our recoveries from sales of gold and financial condition will be adversely impacted. We have not undertaken any hedging transactions in order to protect us from a decline in the price of gold. A decline in the price of gold may also decrease our ability to obtain future financings to fund our planned exploration programs activities. 31 Factors that tend to cause the price of gold to decrease include, but are not limited to, the following: (a) Sales or leasing of gold by governments and central banks; (b) A low rate of inflation and a strong US dollar; (c) Speculative trading; (d) Decreased demand for gold’s industrial, jewelry and investment uses; (e) High supply of gold from production, disinvestment, scrap and hedging; (f) Sales by gold producers and foreign transactions and other hedging transactions; (g) Devaluing local currencies (relative to gold price in US dollars) leading to lower production costs and higher production in certain major gold producing regions. If costs of gold recovery at our Nolan Gold Project are higher than anticipated, then our financial condition and ability to pursue additional exploration will be adversely affected. We have proceeded with test mining activities on the Nolan Gold Project on the basis of estimated capital and operating costs. If capital and operating costs are greater than anticipated, then cash used in test mining activities at the Nolan Gold Project will be greater than anticipated. Increased cash used in test mining activities will cause us to have less funds for other expenses, such as administrative and overhead expenses and exploration of our other mineral properties and further test mining activities on the Nolan Gold Project. In this event, our financial condition will be adversely affected and will have fewer funds with which to pursue our exploration programs. If our exploration costs are higher than anticipated, then our financial condition and ability to pursue additional exploration will be adversely affected. We are currently proceeding with exploration of our mineral properties on the basis of estimated exploration costs. This exploration program includes drilling programs at various locations within the Nolan Gold Project. If our exploration costs are greater than anticipated, then we will have fewer funds for our exploration activities, including test mining activities that we plan to carry out at our Nolan Gold Project, and for our general and administrative expenses. In this event, our financial condition will be adversely affected, our losses will increase and we will have fewer funds with which to pursue our exploration programs. Factors that could cause exploration costs to increase include adverse weather conditions, difficult terrain and shortages of qualified personnel. Exploration activities, including test mining and operating activities are inherently hazardous. Mineral exploration activities, including test mining activities, involve many risks that even a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome. Operations that we undertake will be subject to all the hazards and risks normally incidental to exploration, test mining and recovery of gold and other metals, any of which could result in work stoppages, damage to property and possible environmental damage. The nature of these risks are such that liabilities might result in us being forced to incur significant costs that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and business prospects. There is no assurance that any of our mineral resources will ever be classified as reserves under the disclosure standards of the Securities and Exchange Commission. This annual report discusses our mineral resources in accordance with Canadian National Instrument 43-101 (“NI 43-101”), as discussed under the section of this annual report entitled “Description of Properties”. Resources are classified as “measured resources”, “indicated resources” and “inferred resources” under NI 43-101. However, U.S. investors are cautioned that the United States Securities and Exchange Commission does not recognize these resource classifications. There is no assurance that any of our mineral resources will be converted into reserves under the disclosure standards of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission except for those probable reserves defined in the January 1, 2009 report, amended June 1, 2009, earlier referenced in this document. Further, “‘inferred resources” have a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence, and economic and legal feasibility. It cannot be assumed that all or any part of an inferred mineral resource will ever be upgraded to a higher category. Under Canadian rules, estimates of inferred mineral resources may not form the basis of feasibility or pre-feasibility studies, except in rare cases. Investors are cautioned not to assume that part or all of an “inferred resource” exists, or is economically or legally mineable. 32 If we experience exploration accidents or other adverse events, then our financial condition and profitability could be adversely affected. Our exploration activities, including test mining activities at the Nolan Gold Project, are subject to adverse operating conditions. Exploration accidents or other adverse incidents, such as cave-ins or flooding, could affect our ability to continue test mining activities at the Nolan Gold Project. A particular concern at the Nolan Gold Project is warm temperatures that can reduce the winter season during which we can safely conduct underground test mining activities. The occurrence of any of these events could cause a delay in production of gold or could reduce the amount of gold that we are able to recover, with the result that our ability to achieve recoveries from gold sales and to sustain operations would be adversely impacted. Adverse operating conditions may also cause our operating costs to increase. Exploration accidents or other adverse events could also result in an adverse environmental impact to the land on which our operations are located with the result that we may become subject to the liabilities for environmental clean up and remediation. If we are unable to obtain all of our required governmental permits, our operations could be negatively impacted. Our future operations, including exploration and development activities, required permits from various governmental authorities. Such operations are and will be governed by laws and regulations governing prospecting, development, mining, production, taxes, labor standards, land use, mine safety and other matters. There is no assurance that we will be able to acquire all required licenses or permits or to maintain continued operations at economically justifiable costs. If we become subject to increased environmental laws and regulation, our operating expenses may increase. Our exploration activities, including test mining activities, are regulated by both US Federal and State of Alaska environmental laws that relate to the protection of air and water quality, hazardous waste management and mine reclamation. These regulations may impose operating costs on us. If the regulatory environment for our operations changes in a manner that increases costs of compliance and reclamation, then our operating expenses would increase with the result that our financial condition and operating results would be adversely affected. Changes in government regulation may adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company deals with various regulatory and governmental agencies and the rules and regulations of such agencies. In order for the Company to operate and grow its business, it needs to continually conform to the laws, rules and regulations of such jurisdictions. It is possible that the legal and regulatory pertaining to the exploration and development of mineral properties will change. Uncertainty and new regulations and rules could increase the Company’s cost of doing business or prevent it from conducting its business. As mineral exploration business is extremely risky, there is substantial risk that our business will fail. We plan to continue exploration on our mineral properties. Because of the speculative nature of exploration of mineral properties, there is no assurance that our additional exploration activities on our properties will result in the discovery of new commercially exploitable quantities of minerals or that we will be able to establish proven and probable reserves as a result of our exploration. Problems such as unusual or unexpected geological formations or other variable conditions are involved in exploration and often result in exploration efforts being unsuccessful. The additional potential problems include, but are not limited to, unanticipated problems relating to exploration and attendant additional costs and expenses that may exceed current estimates. These risks may result in us being unable to establish the presence of commercial exploitable quantities of ore on our mineral claims with the result that our ability to fund future exploration activities may be impeded There can be no assurance that our independent geologists’ estimates or results will be accurate. We rely on independent geologists to analyze our drilling results and to prepare resource reports. While these geologists rely on standards established by various regulatory agencies and licensing bodies, there can be no assurance that their estimates or results will be accurate. Analyzing drilling results and estimating reserves or targeted drilling sites is not a certainty. Miscalculations and unanticipated drilling results may cause the geologists to alter their estimates. 33 As we face intense competition in the exploration industry, we will have to compete with our competitors for financing and for qualified managerial and technical employees. The exploration industry is intensely competitive in all of its phases. Competition includes large established exploration companies with substantial capabilities and with greater financial and technical resources than we have. As a result of this competition, we may be unable to acquire additional attractive mining claims or financing on terms we consider acceptable. We also compete with other exploration companies in the recruitment and retention of qualified managerial and technical employees. If we are unable to successfully compete for financing or for qualified employees, our exploration programs may be slowed down or suspended. Private placements, stock awards and the exercise of our outstanding options and warrants may depress our stock price. Sales or the availability for sale of shares of our common stock by stockholders could cause the market price of our common stock to decline and could impair our ability to raise capital through an offering of additional equity securities. If our management determines to issue a large pool of shares of our common stock to raise capital or other purposes in the future, investors’ ownership position would be diluted and the market price of our common stock may decline. The exercise of outstanding options and warrants, and the subsequent sale of the underlying common stock in the public market could have the effect of lowering the market price of our common stock below current levels and make it more difficult for us and our stockholders to sell our common stock in the future. Regulatory actions by the SEC or any exchange on which our securities are traded may adversely affect the price of our common stock, the ability of stockholders to sell their shares and our ability to secure additional funding. Should any regulatory matters arise, resolution of these matters with any entity will likely result in significant legal fees and related expenses that would otherwise be devoted to our mining efforts. If you are a stockholder, you may not be able to sell your securities and shares of our common stock will become highly illiquid which may result in the loss of your entire investment. In addition, should we become subject to any of the events identified above, our ability to secure additional financing will be adversely affected. The securities industry and the offer and sale of securities are highly regulated. Any improper actions, whether intentional or unintentional, could subject us to litigation and potential monetary damages. Any litigation that we undertake with respect ot our common stock or other matters will involve the expenditure of significant financial resources and divert management’s focus from their primary responsibilities. Our business venture into the low rank coal water fuel business is subject to a high risk of failure. Our business venture into the low rank coal water fuel technology business is at a very early stage and is subject to a high risk of failure. The low rank coal water fuel technology has not been proven by us to be a commercially viable fuel alternative. In order to establish commercial viability, we will have to undertake the construction and operation of the contemplated demonstration facility. The construction and three year operation of the demonstration facility would cost approximately $26 million. Even if the demonstration facility were constructed and operational, there is no assurance that the commercial viability of this process would be established or that we would be able to expand the facility into a commercially viable operation or to generate revenues from this technology. We are pursuing funding from the United States federal and state governments and from private sources to fund the construction of the demonstration facility. There is no assurance that we will succeed in obtaining government or private funding for this project. Even if funding is obtained and the demonstration facility constructed, there is no assurance that we would be able to generate profits or revenues from the operation of the demonstration facility. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 34 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Our head office is located at Suite 308, 5455 152nd Street, Surrey, British Columbia, Canada V3S 5A5. These premises are comprised of approximately 3,378 square feet and are leased for a term expiring in March 2016. The Company holds interests in the following four groups of mineral properties located in Alaska, U.S.A: 1. Nolan Gold Project; 2. Hammond Property (Slisco Bench); 3. Ester Dome Properties; 4. Eagle Creek Properties; All of these properties are in the exploration stage and have no proven reserves as of November 30, 2010; with the exception of the Nolan property, which has a probable reserve but requires a more extensive feasibility study to ascertain if such probable reserve can be classified as a proven reserve. The following disclosures incorporate the results of technical reports prepared during 2008 and 2009 by Thomas K. Bundtzen (“Bundtzen”/the “QP”), a third party independent qualified person and certified professional geologist, in accordance with the requirements of Canadian National Instrument 43-101 – Standards of Disclosure for Mineral Projects (“NI 43-101”). Investors may view the NI 43-101 reports at the Company’s website at www.silverado.com. The NI 43-101 reports provide disclosure regarding Silverado’s Alaska properties in accordance with NI 43-101. U.S. Investors are cautioned that the United States Securities and Exchange Commission does not recognize the terms “indicated resources” and “inferred resources”. The details of our interests in the four groups of mineral properties are described below. NOLAN GOLD PROJECT Based on completion of a preliminary feasibility study, dated January 1, 2009 and amended June 1, 2009, by the QP, our Nolan Gold and Antimony Lode Project has disclosed an economically viable mineral reserve. The preliminary feasibility study concluded that the resource estimates can be reclassified as a probable reserve. However, it requires a more extensive feasibility study to ascertain if such reserve can be classified as a proven reserve. 1. Location and Access The majority of the properties comprising our Nolan Gold Project are adjacent to or within the Nolan Creek Valley, located approximately 8 miles northwest of the small town of Wiseman, and 175 air miles north of Fairbanks, Alaska in the southern foothills of the Brooks Range. Centrally located in the historic Koyukuk Mining District, Nolan Creek is a southerly flowing tributary to Wiseman Creek which flows southeasterly into the Middle Fork of the Koyukuk River. The Nolan Gold Project is accessible by the Elliott and the Dalton Highways, about 280 road miles north of Fairbanks Alaska. An all weather road connects the Nolan Creek Camp with the Dalton Highway and is suitable year-round for semi-tractors loaded with fuel and equipment. Air transportation is available by several commercial carriers from Fairbanks to the 4,500 ft long, state maintained Coldfoot Airport. The community of Coldfoot Alaska is about 15 miles south-southeast of Nolan, and has Alaska’s northernmost gas station, grocery, and public lodging. Coldfoot also has a weather station provided by the Alaska State Weather Service, and a post office. All of the Nolan Gold Project properties are on federal land and located within the Wiseman B-1 Quadrangle. All of the mineral claims, with the exception noted below, are in the SE 1/4, Township 31 North, Range 12 West, the NE 1/4, Township 30 North, Range 12 West, and SW 1/4, Township 31 North, Range 11 West, Fairbanks Meridian. In addition to the Nolan Creek properties, Silverado also has two smaller placer claim groups on Clara Creek and Marion Creek, located 1.5 and 3 miles north respectively of the town of Coldfoot, Alaska, situated near the Dalton Highway. A map illustrating the location and access to the Nolan Gold Project is provided below: 35 