ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. Our financial and operating results are subject to a number of risk factors, many of which are not within our control. Although we have tried to discuss key risk factors below, please be aware that other or new risks may prove to be important in the future. Investors should carefully consider the following discussion of risk factors as well as other information appearing in this report. These factors include the following: Further disruptions in the credit markets could limit our ability to access capital and increase our costs of capital. We rely upon access to both short-term and long-term credit markets to satisfy our liquidity requirements. The global credit markets have experienced significant disruptions and volatility during the last few years to a greater degree than has been seen in decades. In some cases, the ability or willingness of traditional sources of capital to provide financing has been reduced. Historically, we have accessed the commercial paper markets to finance our short-term working capital needs. The disruptions in the credit markets during the fall of 2008 temporarily limited our access to the commercial paper markets and increased our borrowing costs. Consequently, for a short period, we were forced to borrow directly under our primary credit facility that backstops our commercial paper program to provide much of our working capital. This credit facility provides up to $567 million in committed financing through its expiration in December 2011. Our borrowings under this facility, along with our commercial paper, have been used primarily to purchase natural gas supplies for the upcoming winter heating season. The amount of our working capital requirements in the near-term will depend primarily on the market price of natural gas. Higher natural gas prices may adversely impact our accounts receivable collections and may require us to increase borrowings under our credit facilities to fund our operations. We have historically supplemented our commercial paper program with a short-term committed credit facility. No borrowings are currently 22 Table of Contents outstanding under our current $200 million short-term facility, which was scheduled to mature in October 2010. In October 2010, this facility was replaced with a $200 million 180-day facility which expires in April 2011, on substantially the same terms. Our long-term debt is currently rated as “investment grade” by Standard & Poor’s Corporation, Moody’s Investors Services, Inc. and Fitch Ratings, Ltd. If adverse credit conditions were to cause a significant limitation on our access to the private and public credit markets, we could see a reduction in our liquidity. A significant reduction in our liquidity could in turn trigger a negative change in our ratings outlook or even a reduction in our credit ratings by one or more of the three credit rating agencies. Such a downgrade could further limit our access to public and/or private credit markets and increase the costs of borrowing under each source of credit. Further, if our credit ratings were downgraded, we could be required to provide additional liquidity to our natural gas marketing segment because the commodity financial instruments markets could become unavailable to us. Our natural gas marketing segment depends primarily upon a committed credit facility to finance its working capital needs, which it uses primarily to issue standby letters of credit to its natural gas suppliers. A significant reduction in the availability of this facility could require us to provide extra liquidity to support its operations or reduce some of the activities of our natural gas marketing segment. Our ability to provide extra liquidity is limited by the terms of our existing lending arrangements with AEH, which are subject to annual approval by one state regulatory commission. While we believe we can meet our capital requirements from our operations and the sources of financing available to us, we can provide no assurance that we will continue to be able to do so in the future, especially if the market price of natural gas increases significantly in the near-term. The future effects on our business, liquidity and financial results of a further deterioration of current conditions in the credit markets could be material and adverse to us, both in the ways described above or in other ways that we do not currently anticipate. The continuation of recent economic conditions could adversely affect our customers and negatively impact our financial results. The slowdown in the U.S. economy, together with increased mortgage defaults and significant decreases in the values of homes and investment assets, has adversely affected the financial resources of many domestic households. It is unclear whether the administrative and legislative responses to these conditions will be successful in improving current economic conditions, including the lowering of current high unemployment rates across the U.S. As a result, our customers may seek to use even less gas and it may become more difficult for them to pay their gas bills. This may slow collections and lead to higher than normal levels of accounts receivable. This in turn could increase our financing requirements and bad debt expense. Additionally, our industrial customers may seek alternative energy sources, which could result in lower sales volumes. The costs of providing pension and postretirement health care benefits and related funding requirements are subject to changes in pension fund values, changing demographics and fluctuating actuarial assumptions and may have a material adverse effect on our financial results. In addition, the passage of the Health Care Reform Act in 2010 could significantly increase the cost of the health care benefits for our employees. We provide a cash-balance pension plan and postretirement healthcare benefits to eligible full-time employees. Our costs of providing such benefits and related funding requirements are subject to changes in the market value of the assets funding our pension and postretirement healthcare plans. The fluctuations over the last few years in the values of investments that fund our pension and postretirement healthcare plans may significantly differ from or alter the values and actuarial assumptions we use to calculate our future pension plan expense and postretirement healthcare costs and funding requirements under the Pension Protection Act. Any significant declines in the value of these investments could increase the expenses of our pension and postretirement healthcare plans and related funding requirements in the future. Our costs of providing such benefits and related funding requirements are also subject to changing demographics, including longer life 23 Table of Contents expectancy of beneficiaries and an expected increase in the number of eligible former employees over the next five to ten years, as well as various actuarial calculations and assumptions, which may differ materially from actual results due to changing market and economic conditions, higher or lower withdrawal rates and interest rates and other factors. In addition, the costs of providing health care benefits to our employees could significantly increase over the next five to ten years. Although the full effects of the legislation should not impact the Company until 2014, the future cost of compliance with the provisions of the Health Care Reform Act is difficult to measure at this time. Our operations are exposed to market risks that are beyond our control which could adversely affect our financial results and capital requirements. Our risk management operations are subject to market risks beyond our control, including market liquidity, commodity price volatility caused by market supply and demand dynamics and counterparty creditworthiness. Although we maintain a risk management policy, we may not be able to completely offset the price risk associated with volatile gas prices, particularly in our nonregulated business segments, which could lead to volatility in our earnings. Physical trading in our nonregulated business segments also introduces price risk on any net open positions at the end of each trading day, as well as volatility resulting from intra-day fluctuations of gas prices and the potential for daily price movements between the time natural gas is purchased or sold for future delivery and the time the related purchase or sale is hedged. The determination of our net open position as of the end of any particular trading day requires us to make assumptions as to future circumstances, including the use of gas by our customers in relation to our anticipated storage and market positions. Because the price risk associated with any net open position at the end of such day may increase if the assumptions are not realized, we review these assumptions as part of our daily monitoring activities. Although we manage our business to maintain no open positions, there are times when limited net open positions related to our physical storage may occur on a short-term basis. Net open positions may increase volatility in our financial condition or results of operations if market prices move in a significantly favorable or unfavorable manner before the open positions can be closed. Further, the timing of the recognition for financial accounting purposes of gains or losses resulting from changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments designated as hedges usually does not match the timing of the economic profits or losses on the item being hedged. This volatility may occur with a resulting increase or decrease in earnings or losses, even though the expected profit margin is essentially unchanged from the date the transactions were consummated. Also, if the local physical markets in which we trade do not move consistently with the NYMEX futures market upon which most of our commodity derivative financial instruments are valued, we could experience increased volatility in the financial results of our natural gas marketing and pipeline, storage and other segments. Our natural gas marketing and pipeline, storage and other segments manage margins and limit risk exposure on the sale of natural gas inventory or the offsetting fixed-price purchase or sale commitments for physical quantities of natural gas through the use of a variety of financial instruments. However, contractual limitations could adversely affect our ability to withdraw gas from storage, which could cause us to purchase gas at spot prices in a rising market to obtain sufficient volumes to fulfill customer contracts. We could also realize financial losses on our efforts to limit risk as a result of volatility in the market prices of the underlying commodities or if a counterparty fails to perform under a contract. Any significant tightening of the credit markets could cause more of our counterparties to fail to perform than expected. In addition, adverse changes in the creditworthiness of our counterparties could limit the level of trading activities with these parties and increase the risk that these parties may not perform under a contract. These circumstances could also increase our capital requirements. We are also subject to interest rate risk on our borrowings. In recent years, we have been operating in a relatively low interest-rate environment compared to historical norms for both short and long-term interest rates. However, increases in interest rates could adversely affect our future financial results. 24 Table of Contents We are subject to state and local regulations that affect our operations and financial results. Our natural gas distribution and regulated transmission and storage segments are subject to various regulated returns on our rate base in each jurisdiction in which we operate. We monitor the allowed rates of return and our effectiveness in earning such rates and initiate rate proceedings or operating changes as we believe are needed. In addition, in the normal course of business in the regulatory environment, assets may be placed in service and historical test periods established before rate cases can be filed that could result in an adjustment of our allowed returns. Once rate cases are filed, regulatory bodies have the authority to suspend implementation of the new rates while studying the cases. Because of this process, we must suffer the negative financial effects of having placed assets in service without the benefit of rate relief, which is commonly referred to as “regulatory lag.” Rate cases also involve a risk of rate reduction, because once rates have been approved, they are still subject to challenge for their reasonableness by appropriate regulatory authorities. In addition, regulators may review our purchases of natural gas and can adjust the amount of our gas costs that we pass through to our customers. Finally, our debt and equity financings are also subject to approval by regulatory commissions in several states, which could limit our ability to access or take advantage of changes in the capital markets. We may experience increased federal, state and local regulation of the safety of our operations. We are committed to constantly monitoring and maintaining our pipeline and distribution system to ensure that natural gas is delivered safely, reliably and efficiently through our network of more than 77,000 miles of pipeline and distribution lines. The steel service line replacement program currently underway in our Mid-Tex Division typifies the preventive maintenance and continual renewal that we perform on our natural gas distribution system in all 12 states in which we operate. The safety and protection of the public, our customers and our employees is our top priority. However, due primarily to the recent unfortunate pipeline incident in California, we anticipate companies in the natural gas distribution business may be subjected to even greater federal, state and local oversight of the safety of their operations in the future. Accordingly, the costs of complying with such increased regulations may have at least a short-term adverse impact on our operating costs and financial results. Some of our operations are subject to increased federal regulatory oversight that could affect our operations and financial results. FERC has regulatory authority that affects some of our operations, including sales of natural gas in the wholesale gas market and the use and release of interstate pipeline and storage capacity. Under legislation passed by Congress in 2005, FERC has adopted rules designed to prevent market power abuse and market manipulation and to promote compliance with FERC’s other rules, policies and orders by companies engaged in the sale, purchase, transportation or storage of natural gas in interstate commerce. These rules carry increased penalties for violations. We are currently under investigation by FERC for possible violations of its posting and competitive bidding regulations for pre-arranged released firm capacity on interstate natural gas pipelines. Should FERC conclude that we have committed such violations of its regulations and levies substantial fines and/or penalties against us, our business, financial condition or financial results could be adversely affected. In addition, although we have taken steps to structure current and future transactions to comply with applicable current FERC regulations, changes in FERC regulations or their interpretation by FERC or additional regulations issued by FERC in the future could also adversely affect our business, financial condition or financial results. We are subject to environmental regulations which could adversely affect our operations or financial results. We are subject to laws, regulations and other legal requirements enacted or adopted by federal, state and local governmental authorities relating to protection of the environment and health and safety matters, including those legal requirements that govern discharges of substances into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and waste, the clean-up of contaminated sites, groundwater quality and availability, plant and wildlife protection, as well as work practices related to employee health and safety. 25 Table of Contents Environmental legislation also requires that our facilities, sites and other properties associated with our operations be operated, maintained, abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of applicable regulatory authorities. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations, permits and licenses may expose us to fines, penalties or interruptions in our operations that could be significant to our financial results. In addition, existing environmental regulations may be revised or our operations may become subject to new regulations. Our business may be subject in the future to additional regulatory and financial risks associated with global warming and climate change. There have been a number of new federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives proposed in an attempt to control or limit the effects of global warming and overall climate change, including greenhouse gas emissions, such as carbon dioxide. For example, in June 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives approved The American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009, also known as the Waxman-Markey bill or “cap and trade” bill. However, neither this bill nor a related bill in the U.S. Senate, the Clean Energy and Emissions Power Act was passed by Congress. The adoption of this type of legislation by Congress or similar legislation by states or the adoption of related regulations by federal or state governments mandating a substantial reduction in greenhouse gas emissions in the future could have far-reaching and significant impacts on the energy industry. Such new legislation or regulations could result in increased compliance costs for us or additional operating restrictions on our business, affect the demand for natural gas or impact the prices we charge to our customers. At this time, we cannot predict the potential impact of such laws or regulations that may be adopted on our future business, financial condition or financial results. The concentration of our distribution, pipeline and storage operations in the State of Texas exposes our operations and financial results to economic conditions and regulatory decisions in Texas. Over 50 percent of our natural gas distribution customers and most of our pipeline and storage assets and operations are located in the State of Texas. This concentration of our business in Texas means that our operations and financial results may be significantly affected by changes in the Texas economy in general and regulatory decisions by state and local regulatory authorities in Texas. Adverse weather conditions could affect our operations or financial results. Since the 2006-2007 winter heating season, we have had weather-normalized rates for over 90 percent of our residential and commercial meters, which has substantially mitigated the adverse effects of warmer-than-normal weather for meters in those service areas. However, there is no assurance that we will continue to receive such regulatory protection from adverse weather in our rates in the future. The loss of such weather — normalized rates could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial results. In addition, our natural gas distribution and regulated transmission and storage operating results may continue to vary somewhat with the actual temperatures during the winter heating season. Sustained cold weather could adversely affect our natural gas marketing operations as we may be required to purchase gas at spot rates in a rising market to obtain sufficient volumes to fulfill some customer contracts. Inflation and increased gas costs could adversely impact our customer base and customer collections and increase our level of indebtedness. Inflation has caused increases in some of our operating expenses and has required assets to be replaced at higher costs. We have a process in place to continually review the adequacy of our natural gas distribution gas rates in relation to the increasing cost of providing service and the inherent regulatory lag in adjusting those gas rates. Historically, we have been able to budget and control operating expenses and investments within the amounts authorized to be collected in rates and intend to continue to do so. However, the ability to control expenses is an important factor that could impact future financial results. Rapid increases in the costs of purchased gas would cause us to experience a significant increase in short-term debt. We must pay suppliers for gas when it is purchased, which can be significantly in advance of when these costs may be recovered through the collection of monthly customer bills for gas delivered. Increases in 26 Table of Contents purchased gas costs also slow our natural gas distribution collection efforts as customers are more likely to delay the payment of their gas bills, leading to higher than normal accounts receivable. This could result in higher short-term debt levels, greater collection efforts and increased bad debt expense. Our growth in the future may be limited by the nature of our business, which requires extensive capital spending. We must continually build additional capacity in our natural gas distribution system to enable us to serve any growth in the number of our customers. The cost of adding this capacity may be affected by a number of factors, including the general state of the economy and weather. In addition, although we should ultimately recover the cost of the expenditures through rates, we must make significant capital expenditures during the next two fiscal years in executing our steel service line replacement program in the Mid-Tex Division. Our cash flows from operations generally are sufficient to supply funding for all our capital expenditures, including the financing of the costs of new construction along with capital expenditures necessary to maintain our existing natural gas system. Due to the timing of these cash flows and capital expenditures, we often must fund at least a portion of these costs through borrowing funds from third party lenders, the cost and availability of which is dependent on the liquidity of the credit markets, interest rates and other market conditions. This in turn may limit our ability to connect new customers to our system due to constraints on the amount of funds we can invest in our infrastructure. Our operations are subject to increased competition. In residential and commercial customer markets, our natural gas distribution operations compete with other energy products, such as electricity and propane. Our primary product competition is with electricity for heating, water heating and cooking. Increases in the price of natural gas could negatively impact our competitive position by decreasing the price benefits of natural gas to the consumer. This could adversely impact our business if, as a result, our customer growth slows, reducing our ability to make capital expenditures, or if our customers further conserve their use of gas, resulting in reduced gas purchases and customer billings. In the case of industrial customers, such as manufacturing plants, adverse economic conditions, including higher gas costs, could cause these customers to use alternative sources of energy, such as electricity, or bypass our systems in favor of special competitive contracts with lower per-unit costs. Our regulated transmission and storage operations historically have faced limited competition from other existing intrastate pipelines and gas marketers seeking to provide or arrange transportation, storage and other services for customers. However, in the last two years, several new pipelines have been completed, which has increased the level of competition in this segment of our business. Within our nonregulated operations, AEM competes with other natural gas marketers to provide natural gas management and other related services primarily to smaller customers requiring higher levels of balancing, scheduling and other related management services. AEM has experienced increased competition in recent years primarily from investment banks and major integrated oil and natural gas companies who offer lower cost, basic services. Distributing and storing natural gas involve risks that may result in accidents and additional operating costs. Our natural gas distribution business involves a number of hazards and operating risks that cannot be completely avoided, such as leaks, accidents and operational problems, which could cause loss of human life, as well as substantial financial losses resulting from property damage, damage to the environment and to our operations. We do have liability and property insurance coverage in place for many of these hazards and risks. However, because our pipeline, storage and distribution facilities are near or are in populated areas, any loss of human life or adverse financial results resulting from such events could be large. If these events were not fully covered by insurance, our operations or financial results could be adversely affected. 27 Table of Contents Natural disasters, terrorist activities or other significant events could adversely affect our operations or financial results. Natural disasters are always a threat to our assets and operations. In addition, the threat of terrorist activities could lead to increased economic instability and volatility in the price of natural gas that could affect our operations. Also, companies in our industry may face a heightened risk of exposure to actual acts of terrorism, which could subject our operations to increased risks. As a result, the availability of insurance covering such risks may be more limited, which could increase the risk that an event could adversely affect our operations or financial results. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 