Item 1A. Risk Factors The business segments in which we operate are highly competitive. The business segments in which we operate are highly competitive and are affected to varying degrees by supply and demand factors and economic conditions, including changes in production of nondurable goods, interest rates, new housing starts, home repair and remodeling activities, and the strength of the U.S. dollar. Given the commodity nature of our manufactured products, we have little control over market pricing or market demand. No single company is dominant in any of our industries. Our corrugated packaging competitors include large, vertically-integrated paperboard and packaging products companies and numerous smaller companies. Because these products are globally traded commodities, the industries in which we compete are particularly sensitive to price fluctuations as well as other factors, 8 Table of Contents including innovation, design, quality, and service, with varying emphasis on these factors depending on the product line. To the extent that one or more of our competitors become more successful with respect to any key competitive factor, our business could be materially adversely affected. Although corrugated packaging is dominant in the national distribution process, our products also compete with various other packaging materials, including products made of paper, plastics, wood, and various types of metal. In the building products markets, we compete with many companies that are substantially larger and have greater resources in the manufacturing of building products. The profitability of our business is affected by changes in raw material and other costs. Virgin wood fiber and recycled fiber are the principal raw materials we use to manufacture corrugated packaging and certain of our building products. We purchase virgin wood fiber in highly competitive, price sensitive markets. The price for wood fiber has historically fluctuated on a cyclical basis and has often depended on a variety of factors over which we have no control, including environmental and conservation regulations, natural disasters, the price and level of imported timber and the continuation of any applicable tariffs, and weather. In addition, an increase in demand for old corrugated containers, especially from China, may cause a significant increase over time in the cost of recycled fiber used in the manufacture of recycled containerboard and related products. Such costs are likely to continue to fluctuate. In addition, we rely on suppliers under long-term fiber supply contracts for a significant portion of our virgin fiber requirements. While we have not experienced any significant difficulty in obtaining virgin wood fiber and recycled fiber in economic proximity to our facilities, if the parties under our long-term fiber supply agreements were unable to perform, this may not continue to be the case for any or all of our facilities. Any such supply disruption could negatively affect our cost of virgin fiber. Changes in the prices of energy and transportation can have a significant effect on our profitability. While we have attempted to contain energy costs through internal generation and in some instances the use of by-products from our manufacturing processes as fuel, these efforts only relate to a portion of our energy usage. No assurance can be given that such efforts will be successful in the future or that energy prices will not rise to levels that would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations despite these efforts. We hedge very little of our energy needs. The corrugated packaging and building products industries are cyclical in nature and experience periods of overcapacity. The operating results of our corrugated packaging and building products segments reflect each such industry’s general cyclical pattern. While the cycles of each industry do not historically coincide, demand and prices in each historically tend to drop in an economic downturn. The building products industry is further influenced by the residential construction and remodeling markets. Further, each industry periodically experiences substantial overcapacity. Both industries are capital intensive, which leads to high fixed costs and historically results in continued production as long as prices are sufficient to cover marginal costs. These conditions have contributed to substantial price competition and volatility in these industries, even when demand is strong. Any increased production by our competitors could depress prices for our products. From time to time, we have closed certain of our facilities or have taken downtime in order to match our production with the demand for our products and may continue to do so, thereby reducing our total production levels. Certain of our competitors have also temporarily closed or reduced production at their facilities, but can reopen and/or increase production capacity at any time, which could exacerbate overcapacity in these industries and depress prices. We are subject to environmental regulations and liabilities that could have a negative effect on our operating results. We are subject to federal, state, and local provisions regulating the discharge of materials into the environment and otherwise related to the protection of the environment. Compliance with these provisions has required us to invest substantial funds to modify facilities to ensure compliance with applicable environmental 9 Table of Contents regulations. In other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we provide certain estimates of expenditures we expect to make for environmental compliance in the next few years. However, we could incur additional significant expenditures due to changes in law or the discovery of new information, and such expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows, and results of operations. In addition, we are subject to litigation filed by private parties alleging injury due to environmental exposures in or near our facilities. Further downward changes in demand for housing in the market regions where we operate could decrease profitability in our building products segment. The residential homebuilding industry is sensitive to changes in economic conditions, including interest rates, foreclosure rates, and availability of financing. Further adverse changes in these conditions generally, or in the market regions where we operate, could further decrease demand for new homes in these areas. Additional declines in housing demand could result in lower pricing and demand for many of our building products, particularly lumber and gypsum wallboard, which could have increased negative effects on our revenues and earnings. Current conditions in financial markets could have adverse consequences on our ability to finance our operations. Current conditions in financial markets, which include the bankruptcy and restructuring of certain financial institutions, could affect financial institutions with which we have relationships and result in adverse effects on our ability to finance our operations. The possible effects of these conditions would include the possibility that a lender under our existing credit facilities may be unwilling or unable to fund a borrowing request, and we may not be able to replace any such lender. In addition, financial market conditions could have a negative effect on the ability of customers, suppliers, and others to conduct business with us on a normal basis. If certain internal restructuring transactions and the distributions of Forestar and Guaranty are determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we and our stockholders that are subject to U.S. federal income tax could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. At the end of 2007, we spun off two subsidiaries, Forestar Group Inc. and Guaranty Financial Group Inc., and entered into certain internal restructuring transactions in preparation for the spin-offs. We received a private letter ruling from the IRS and opinions of tax counsel regarding the tax-free nature of these transactions and the distributions. The ruling and opinions rely on certain facts, assumptions, representations, and undertakings from us regarding the past and future conduct of our businesses and other matters. If any of these are incorrect or not otherwise satisfied, then we and our stockholders may not be able to rely on the ruling or opinions and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. Notwithstanding the ruling and opinions, the IRS could determine on audit that the distributions or the internal restructuring transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations, or undertakings are not correct or have been violated, or if the distributions should become taxable for other reasons, including as a result of significant changes in stock ownership after the distribution. If the IRS were to make any such determination, we could incur significant tax liabilities. If the sale of our strategic timberland did not qualify for installment method reporting for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we could be required to fund significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities the payment of which we believe to be deferred. We sold our strategic timberland in a manner intended for U.S. federal income tax purposes to defer recognition of a substantial portion of the gain on the sale. Under the installment method, we will not be required to pay U.S. federal income taxes on the deferred gain until we are required to recognize the gain. We received opinions of tax counsel regarding the timberland sale and the deferred gain. The opinions rely on certain facts, assumptions, representations, and undertakings from us regarding the past and future conduct of our businesses and other matters. If any of these are incorrect or not otherwise satisfied, then we may not be able to rely on the opinions. Notwithstanding the opinions, the IRS could determine on audit that the gain does not qualify for deferral if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations, or 10 Table of Contents undertakings are not correct or have been violated or that the transaction otherwise does not qualify for the installment method. In any such event, we could incur significant tax liabilities. If the credit ratings of a bank issuing letters of credit in our timberland financing transaction are lowered below designated levels and we failed to secure substitute letter of credit issuers, we could be required to fund significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities the payment of which we believe to be deferred. The financial assets of special purpose entities relate to the sale of our strategic timberlands in 2007 and are secured by letters of credit issued by four banks. The letters of credit are secured by the purchaser’s long-term cash deposits with the banks. The letter of credit issuers are required to maintain a credit rating on their long-term unsecured debt of at least A+ by Standard and Poor’s Rating Services, a division of McGraw-Hill, Inc., and A1 by Moody’s Investor Services, Inc. If a credit rating of any of these banks were downgraded below this level, the bank must be replaced with another qualifying financial institution. The credit ratings of all the participating banks are currently at or above the designated level. If a credit rating of one of the participating banks were downgraded below the designated level and following the downgrade a qualifying financial institution could not be substituted (which would be referred to as a failed substitution), it is possible that a portion of the deferred taxes from the gain on the sale of our timberlands would become currently payable. If there were a second failed substitution, it is possible that the remaining deferred taxes from the gain on the sale of our timberlands would become currently payable. Any required payment of deferred taxes would be net of available alternative minimum tax credits. We have interest rate risk in connection with our financial assets and nonrecourse financial liabilities of special purpose entities. In October 2007, we received $2.38 billion in notes due in 2027 from the sale of our strategic timberland, which we later contributed to two wholly-owned, bankruptcy-remote special purpose entities. In December 2007, the special purpose entities pledged the notes as collateral for $2.14 billion nonrecourse loans payable in 2027. Both the notes and the borrowings require quarterly interest payments based on variable interest rates. Interest rates on the notes are based on LIBOR and reset quarterly. Interest rates on the borrowings reflect the lenders’ pooled commercial paper issuances and reset daily. Because of the differences in reference rates, margins, and reset dates, there could be periods in which the interest paid on the nonrecourse financial liabilities is significantly more than the interest received on the financial assets. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 