Item 1A. Risk Factors The business segments in which we operate are highly competitive. All of the business segments in which we operate are highly competitive and are affected to varying degrees by supply and demand factors and economic conditions, including changes in interest rates, new housing starts, home repair and remodeling activities, loan collateral values (particularly real estate), and the strength of the U.S. dollar. Given the commodity nature of our manufactured products, we have little control over market pricing or market demand. No single company is dominant in any of our industries. Our corrugated packaging competitors include large, vertically-integrated paperboard and packaging products companies and numerous smaller companies. Because these products are globally traded commodities, the industries in which we compete are particularly sensitive to price fluctuations as well as other factors, including innovation, design, quality, and service, with varying emphasis on these factors depending on the product line. To the extent that one or more of our competitors become more successful with respect to any key competitive factor, our business could be materially adversely affected. Although corrugated packaging is dominant in the national distribution process, our products also compete with various other packaging materials, including products made of paper, plastics, wood, and various types of metal. In the forest products markets, our forest products segment competes with many companies that are substantially larger and have greater resources in the manufacturing of forest products. In our real estate markets, we compete with numerous regional and local developers for the acquisition of land suitable for development. We also compete with some of our national and regional home builder customers who develop real estate for their own use in home building operations. The real estate industry is a highly competitive business, and a number of entities with which we compete are larger and have greater resources. 10 Table of Contents The financial services industry is also a highly competitive business, and a number of entities with which we compete are substantially larger and have greater resources than we do. Our financial services segment competes with commercial banks, savings and loan associations, mortgage banks, and other lenders in our savings bank activities; and with insurance agencies in our insurance activities many of which are larger and have greater resources. The profitability of our corrugated packaging and forest products segments is affected by changes in raw material and other costs. Virgin wood fiber and recycled fiber are the principal raw materials we use to manufacture corrugated packaging and certain of our forest products. The portion of our virgin fiber requirements that do not come from our timberland or that are not produced as a by-product from our forest products operations are purchased in highly competitive, price sensitive markets. The price for these materials has historically fluctuated on a cyclical basis and has often depended on a variety of factors over which we have no control, including environmental and conservation regulations, natural disasters, the price and level of imported timber and the continuation of any applicable tariffs, and weather. In addition, the increase in demand for products manufactured, in whole or in part, from recycled fiber, including old corrugated containers, has caused an occasional tightness in the supply of recycled fiber. It may also cause a significant increase in the cost of such fiber used in the manufacture of recycled containerboard and related products. Such costs are likely to continue to fluctuate. While we have not experienced any significant difficulty in obtaining wood fiber and recycled fiber in economic proximity to our mills, this may not continue to be the case for any or all of our mills. Our profitability is also sensitive to changes in the prices of energy and transportation. While we have attempted to contain energy costs through internal generation and in some instances the use of by-products from our manufacturing processes as fuel, no assurance can be given that such efforts will be successful in the future or that energy prices will not rise to levels that would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We hedge very little of our energy needs. The corrugated packaging and forest products industries are cyclical in nature and experience periods of overcapacity. The operating results of our corrugated packaging and forest products segments reflect each such industry’s general cyclical pattern. While the cycles of each industry do not necessarily coincide, demand and prices in each tend to drop substantially in an economic downturn. The forest products industry is further influenced by the residential construction and remodeling markets. Further, each industry periodically experiences substantial overcapacity. Both industries are capital intensive, which leads to high fixed costs and generally results in continued production as long as prices are sufficient to cover marginal costs. These conditions have contributed to substantial price competition and volatility in these industries, even when demand is strong. Any increased production by our competitors could depress prices for our products. From time to time, we have closed certain of our facilities or have taken downtime based on prevailing market demand for our products and may continue to do so, reducing our total production levels. Certain of our competitors have also temporarily closed or reduced production at their facilities, but can reopen and/or increase production capacity at any time, which could exacerbate the overcapacity in these industries and depress prices. Our manufacturing activities are subject to environmental regulations and liabilities that could have a negative effect on our operating results. Our manufacturing operations are subject to federal, state, and local provisions regulating the discharge of materials into the environment and otherwise related to the protection of the environment. Compliance with these provisions has required us to invest substantial funds to modify facilities to ensure compliance with applicable environmental regulations. In other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we provide certain estimates of expenditures we expect to make for environmental compliance in the next few years. However, we could incur additional significant expenditures due to changes in law or the discovery of new information, and such expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows, and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents Downward changes in demand for housing in the market regions where we operate could decrease our profitability, especially in our forest products and real estate segments. The residential homebuilding industry is sensitive to changes in economic conditions. Adverse changes in these conditions generally, or in the market regions where we operate, could decrease demand for new homes in these areas. Decline in housing demand could have a negative effect on the pricing and demand for many of our forest products, particularly lumber and gypsum wallboard, and negatively affect our real estate development and investment activities, either of which could result in a decrease in our revenues and earnings. Our financial services segment operates in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in federal and local laws and regulations. Our financial services segment is subject to regulation, supervision, and examination by federal and state banking authorities. The regulations enforced by these authorities are intended to protect customers and federal deposit insurance funds, not creditors, stockholders, or other security holders. Regulations affecting banks and financial services companies are continuously changing, and any change in applicable regulations or federal or state legislation could have a negative effect on our financial services segment. Further, regulators have significant discretion and power to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws by federal savings banks and their holding companies (including the power to appoint a conservator or receiver for the bank) or to require changes in various aspects of their operation at any time, including restrictions on the payment of dividends to the parent company. Any exercise of such regulatory discretion could have a negative effect on our financial condition or the results of our operations. Changes in interest rates affect our financial services segment’s profitability. Changes in interest rates are not predictable or controllable. Changes in interest rates affect our financial services net interest margin and demand for loans and other financial services products. The majority of Guaranty’s assets and liabilities are monetary in nature and are affected by changes in interest rates. Like most financial institutions, changes in interest rates affect our net interest income as well as the value of our assets and liabilities. A significant change in the general level of interest rates may adversely affect our net interest margin because our interest-bearing assets and liabilities do not reprice in tandem. In addition, periodic and lifetime caps may limit interest rate changes on our mortgage-backed securities and loans that pay interest at adjustable rates. Additionally, an increase in interest rates may, among other things, reduce the demand for loans and our ability to originate loans. A decrease in the general level of interest rates may affect us through, among other things, increased prepayments on our loan and mortgage-backed securities portfolios and increased competition for deposits. Accordingly, changes in interest rates will likely affect our net interest income and our overall results. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, the profitability of our financial services segment could decrease. Our loan customers may fail to repay their loans according to the terms, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to assure repayment. Such loan losses could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions, estimates, and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we rely on a number of factors, including our own experience and our evaluation of economic conditions. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our current allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio and adjustments may be necessary that would have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We face risks related to the composition of our financial services segment’s loan portfolio. Commercial real estate, multi-family, and commercial business and energy loans, which represent about one-half of our loans, generally expose a lender to greater risk of loss than single-family mortgage loans because such loans involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers. The repayment of commercial business loans often depends on the successful operations and income streams of the borrowers. Although the majority of our energy loans are collateralized by oil and gas reserves, significant changes in energy prices or unsuccessful hedge programs by Guaranty’s borrowers could affect collateral 12 Table of Contents values. Many of Guaranty’s commercial real estate or multi-family borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with Guaranty. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan, credit relationship, or geographic market can expose Guaranty to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to one single-family mortgage loan. Approximately one-half of our single-family residential loans consists of loans in the state of California. We would be adversely affected by a reduction in the value of real estate located in California that serves as collateral for our loans. We may be forced to increase our allowances for loan losses and may suffer additional loan losses as a result of any such reduction in collateral values. The adverse impact from a reduction in real estate values in California may be greater for Guaranty than that suffered by other financial institutions with a more geographically diverse loan portfolio. We may not succeed in our plan to acquire mortgage loans from some of our correspondent mortgage warehouse borrowers. We are developing the capability to begin acquiring mortgage loans from some of our correspondent mortgage warehouse borrowers. The correspondent mortgage business is very competitive, and the current interest rate environment is not generally conducive to significant production of adjustable-rate mortgages, which we generally hold. We do not expect our correspondent lending activities to result in significant acquisitions of loans until late second quarter 2007. Our single-family loan portfolio may continue to decline if market conditions inhibit our ability to acquire as many loans as we expect from our correspondent lending activities. This inability to acquire loans could result in a decrease in total loans, which would result in lower net interest income. It is also possible that in order to maintain our qualified thrift lender status, we could be forced to buy securities or other qualifying assets at times when the terms might not be attractive. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 