Item 1A Risk Factors Our operations and our securities are subject to a number of risks, including but not limited to those described below. If any of the following risks actually occur, the business, financial condition or operating results of Multiband and the trading price or value of our common stock could be materially adversely affected. General Multiband, as noted earlier herein, since 1998, has taken several significant steps to reinvent and reposition itself to take advantage of opportunities presented by a shifting economy and industry environment. Recognizing that voice, data and video technologies in the late twentieth century were beginning to systematically integrate as industry manufacturers were evolving technological standards from "closed" proprietary networking architectures to a more "open" flexible and integrated approach, Multiband, between 1998 and 2001, purchased three competitors which, in the aggregate, possessed expertise in data networking, voice and data cabling and video distribution technologies. Page 4 In early 2000, Multiband created its MCS division, employing the aforementioned expertise, to provide communications and entertainment services (local dial tone, long distance, high-speed internet and expanded satellite television services) to residents in MDUs on one billing platform, which the Company developed internally. In 2004, the Company added its MDU segment and in 2008, its HSP segment. The specific risk factors, as detailed below, should be analyzed in the context of the Company's evolving business model. Net Income (Loss) The Company had net income of $944,931 for the year ended December 31, 2008 and a net loss of $6,088,353 for the year ended December 31, 2007 and a net loss of $10,183,723 for the year ended December 31, 2006. In addition, included in our 2008 net income are amounts earned under certain contractual arrangements with DTHC prior to the date we acquired majority ownership of DTHC’s operating subsidiaries (see Note 17). The effects of accumulated losses without additional funding may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategy. Unless our business plan is successful, an investment in our common stock may result in a complete loss of an investor's capital. If we cannot achieve continued profitability from operating activities, we may not be able to meet: o our capital expenditure objectives; o our debt service obligations; or o our working capital needs. Working Capital The Company had working capital of $2,465,209 as of December 31, 2008 due to the acquisition of MMT. As of December 31, 2007 the Company had a working capital deficiency of $5,018,177, respectively, primarily due to operating losses. Goodwill and Intangible Assets The Company applies the Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement (FASB) of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” which sets forth financial and reporting standards for the acquisition of intangible assets, other than those acquired in a business combination, and for goodwill and other intangible assets subsequent to their acquisition. For the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company recorded an impairment of $50,000 on the goodwill related to the US Install purchase and impaired the remaining goodwill balance of $16,757 from a previous acquisition. Also, pursuant to the abandonment of a right of entry intangible asset, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $65,452 for the year ended December 31, 2008. Deregulation Several regulatory and judicial proceedings have recently concluded, are underway or may soon be commenced that address issues affecting our operations and those of our competitors, which may cause significant changes to our industry. We cannot predict the outcome of these developments, nor can we assure you that these changes will not have a material adverse effect on us. Historically, we have been a reseller of products and services, not a manufacturer or carrier requiring regulation of its activities. Pursuant to Minnesota statutes, our Multiband activity is specifically exempt from the need to tariff our services in MDU's. However, the Telecommunications Act of 1996 provides for significant deregulation of the telecommunications industry, including the local telecommunications and long-distance industries. This federal statute and the related regulations remain subject to judicial review and additional rule-makings of the Federal Communications Commission, making it difficult to predict what effect the legislation will have on us, our operations, and our competitors. Page 5 Dependence on Strategic Alliances Several suppliers or potential suppliers of Multiband, such as McLeod, WorldCom, WS Net, XO Communications and others have filed for bankruptcy in recent years. While the financial distress of its suppliers or potential suppliers could have a material adverse effect on Multiband's business, Multiband believes that enough alternate suppliers exist to allow the Company to execute its business plans. The Company is also highly dependent on its Master System Operator agreement with DirecTV. The initial term of the agreement expired in August 2008, and provided for two additional two-year renewals if the Company had a minimum number of paying video subscribers in its system operator network. The Company did meet the requirements and has entered into the first two year automatic renewal period. The Company, via MMT, also has a separate home service provider agreement with DirecTV ending April 30, 2011. The term of the MMT contract with DirecTV will automatically renew as of May 1, 2011 for additional one year periods unless either MMT or DirecTV gives written notice of termination at least 90 days in advance of expiration of the then current term. In early 2009, the Company acquired other HSP providers formerly owned by DTHC. These other providers have dealer agreements which are substantially similar to the MMT agreement. Although an alternate provider of satellite television services, Echostar, exists, the termination of any or all of its HSP dealer agreements with DirecTV would have a material adverse effect on Multiband's business. Changes in Technology A portion of our projected future revenue is dependent on public acceptance of broadband and expanded satellite television services. Acceptance of these services is partially dependent on the infrastructure of the internet and satellite television which is beyond Multiband's control. In addition, newer technologies, such as video-on-demand, are being developed which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's competitiveness in the marketplace if Multiband is unable to adopt or deploy such technologies. Attraction and Retention of Employees Multiband's success depends on the continued employment of certain key personnel, including executive officers. If Multiband were unable to continue to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified key personnel, its business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, Multiband's success depends on its ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled and educated professionals with a wide variety of management, marketing, selling and technical capabilities. Competition for such personnel is intense and is expected to increase in the future. Intellectual Property Rights Multiband relies on a combination of trade secret, copyright, and trademark laws, license agreements, and contractual arrangements with certain key employees to protect its proprietary rights and the proprietary rights of third parties from which Multiband licenses intellectual property. Multiband also relies on agreements with owners of multi-dwelling units which grant the Company rights of access for a specific period to the premises whereby Multiband is allowed to offer its voice, data, and video services to individual residents of the property. If it was determined that Multiband infringed the intellectual property rights of others, it could be required to pay substantial damages or stop selling products and services that contain the infringing intellectual property, which could have a material adverse effect on Multiband's business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, there can be no assurance that Multiband would be able to develop non-infringing technology or that it could obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Multiband's success depends in part on its ability to protect the proprietary and confidential aspects of its technology and the products and services it sells. There can be no assurance that the legal protections afforded to Multiband or the steps taken by Multiband will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of Multiband's intellectual property. Variability of Quarterly Operating Results Variations in Multiband's revenues and operating results occur from quarter to quarter as a result of a number of factors, including customer engagements commenced and completed during a quarter, the number of business days in a quarter, employee hiring and utilization rates, the ability of customers to terminate engagements without penalty, the size and scope of assignments and general economic conditions. Because a significant portion of Multiband's expenses are relatively fixed, a variation in the number of customer projects or the timing of the initiation or completion of projects could cause significant fluctuations in operating results from quarter to quarter. Certain Anti-Takeover Effects Multiband is subject to Minnesota statutes regulating business combinations and restricting voting rights of certain persons acquiring shares of Multiband. These anti-takeover statutes may render more difficult or tend to discourage a merger, tender offer or proxy contest, the assumption of control by a holder of a large block of Multiband's securities, or the removal of incumbent management. Page 6 Volatility of Multiband's Common Stock The trading price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be volatile. The stock market has experienced extreme volatility, and this volatility has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Prices for our common stock are determined in the marketplace and may be influenced by many factors, including variations in our financial results, changes in earnings estimates by industry research analysts, investors' perceptions of us and general economic, industry and market conditions. Future Sales of Our Common Stock May Lower Our Stock Price If our existing shareholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock, the market price of the common stock could decline significantly. The perception in the public market that our existing shareholders might sell shares of common stock could depress our market price. National Market for Stock There is no assurance that the Company’s common stock will continue to trade on the Nasdaq Stock Market or other national stock exchange due to ongoing listing criteria for such exchanges. Competition We face competition from others who are competing for a share of the MDU market, including other satellite companies, cable companies and telephone companies. Some of these companies have significantly greater assets and resources than we do. Uncertain Effects of The Stock Purchase Agreement with DTHC During the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement (SPA) with DTHC, the closing of which occurred in January 2009 (see Note 17). The results of this agreement may produce an uncertain effect on Multiband’s and DTHC’s business relationships, including their ability to retain key employees, suppliers and customers. The DTHC operating entities combined into the Multiband entities may not achieve the operating results and growth anticipated by management. General Economic Conditions As of this writing, the United States is experiencing overall adverse economic conditions. While we believe this environment may actually assist the Company in that consumers may stay home more for entertainment, there is no guarantee that consumers will continue to purchase the Company’s services at a constant level if the country’s recession becomes prolonged. Forward-Looking Statements This document contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities law. Terminology such as "may," "will," "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "continue," "predict," or other similar words, identify forward-looking statements. These statements discuss future expectations, contain projections of results of operations or of financial condition or state other forward-looking information. Forward-looking statements appear in a number of places in this Form 10K and include statements regarding our intent, belief or current expectation about, among other things, trends affecting the industries in which we operate, as well as the industries we service, and our business and growth strategies. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in these forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those predicted in the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those set forth in "Risk Factors." Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments None. Page 7 Item 