Item 1A: Risk Factors Our operations and our securities are subject to a number of risks, including but not limited to those described below. If any of the following risks actually occur, the business, financial condition or operating results of Multiband and the trading price or value of our common stock could be materially adversely affected. General Multiband, since 1998, has taken several significant steps to reinvent and reposition itself to take advantage of opportunities presented by a shifting economy and industry environment. Recognizing that voice, data and video technologies in the late twentieth century were beginning to systematically integrate as industry manufacturers were evolving technological standards from "closed" proprietary networking architectures to a more "open" flexible and integrated approach, Multiband, between 1998 and 2001, purchased three competitors which, in the aggregate, possessed expertise in data networking, voice and data cabling and video distribution technologies. In early 2000, Multiband created its MCS division, employing the aforementioned expertise, to provide communications and entertainment services (local dial tone, long distance, high-speed internet and expanded satellite television services) to residents in MDUs on one billing platform, which the Company developed internally. The specific risk factors, as detailed below, should be analyzed in the context of the Company's anticipated MCS related growth. Back to Table of Contents Net Losses The Company had net losses of $7,475,000 for the year ended December 31, 2005, $9,783,962 for the year ended December 31, 2004, and $4,365,004 for the year ended December 31, 2003. Multiband may never be profitable. The prolonged effects of generating losses without additional funding may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategy. Unless our business plan is successful, an investment in our common stock may result in a complete loss of an investor's capital. If we cannot achieve profitability from operating activities, we may not be able to meet: o our capital expenditure objectives; o our debt service obligations; or o our working capital needs. Working Capital Deficit The Company had a working capital deficiency of ($971,418) and ($8,931,414), as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively; primarily due to operating losses and acquisition related debt. Although both operating losses and acquisition related debts were reduced during 2005, there is no assurance the Company will have positive working capital or be able to meet its working capital needs in future periods. Goodwill In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" which changed the amortization rules on recorded goodwill from a monthly amortization to a periodic "impairment" analysis for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001. In 2004, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $2,748,879 related to Multiband Business Services which is included in discontinued operations at December 31, 2004. As of December 31, 2005, the Company had remaining recorded goodwill of $954,871 primarily related to the purchase of Rainbow Satellite Group, LLC. and the purchase of certain assets of Dinamo Entertainment, Inc. Deregulation Several regulatory and judicial proceedings have recently concluded, are underway or may soon be commenced that address issues affecting operations and those of our competitors, which may cause significant changes to our industry. We cannot predict the outcome of these developments, nor can we assure you that these changes will not have a material adverse effect on us. Historically, we have been a reseller of products and services, not a manufacturer or carrier requiring regulation of its activities. Pursuant to Minnesota statutes, our Multiband activity is specifically exempt from the need to tariff our services in MDU's. However, the Telecommunications Act of 1996 provides for significant deregulation of the telecommunications industry, including the local telecommunications and long-distance industries. This federal statute and the related regulations remain subject to judicial review and additional rule-makings of the Federal Communications Commission, making it difficult to predict what effect the legislation will have on us, our operations, and our competitors. Dependence on Strategic Alliances Several suppliers or potential suppliers of Multiband, such as McLeod, WorldCom, WS Net, XO Communications and others have filed for bankruptcy in recent years. While the financial distress of its suppliers or potential suppliers could have a material adverse effect on Multiband's business, Multiband believes that enough alternate suppliers exist to allow the Company to execute its business plans. The Company is also highly dependent on its Master System Operator agreement with DirecTV. The initial term of the agreement, which expires in August 2008, is for three years and provides for two additional two-year renewals if the Company has a minimum number of paying video subscribers in its system operator network. . Although an alternate provider of satellite television services, Echostar, exists, the termination of its agreements with DirecTV could have a material adverse effect on Multiband's business. Changes in Technology A portion of our projected future revenue is dependent on public acceptance of broadband and expanded satellite television services. Acceptance of these services is partially dependent on the infrastructure of the internet and satellite television which is beyond Multiband's control. In addition, newer technologies, such as video-on-demand, are being developed which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's competitiveness in the marketplace if Multiband is unable to adopt or deploy such technologies. Back to Table of Contents Attraction and Retention of Employees Multiband's success depends on the continued employment of certain key personnel, including executive officers. If Multiband were unable to continue to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified key personnel, its business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, Multiband's success depends on its ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled and educated professionals with a wide variety of management, marketing, selling and technical capabilities. Competition for such personnel is intense and is expected to increase in the future. Intellectual Property Rights Multiband relies on a combination of trade secret, copyright, and trademark laws, license agreements, and contractual arrangements with certain key employees to protect its proprietary rights and the proprietary rights of third parties from which Multiband licenses intellectual property. Multiband also relies on agreements with owners of MDUs which grant the Company rights of access for a specific period to MDU premises whereby Multiband is allowed to offer its voice, data, and video services to individual residents of the MDUs. If it was determined that Multiband infringed the intellectual property rights of others, it could be required to pay substantial damages or stop selling products and services that contain the infringing intellectual property, which could have a material adverse effect on Multiband's business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, there can be no assurance that Multiband would be able to develop non-infringing technology or that it could obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Multiband's success depends in part on its ability to protect the proprietary and confidential aspects of its technology and the products and services it sells. There can be no assurance that the legal protections afforded to Multiband or the steps taken by Multiband will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of Multiband's intellectual property. Variability of Quarterly Operating Results Variations in Multiband's revenues and operating results occur from quarter to quarter as a result of a number of factors, including customer engagements commenced and completed during a quarter, the number of business days in a quarter, employee hiring and utilization rates, the ability of customers to terminate engagements without penalty, the size and scope of assignments and general economic conditions. Because a significant portion of Multiband's expenses are relatively fixed, a variation in the number of customer projects or the timing of the initiation or completion of projects could cause significant fluctuations in operating results from quarter to quarter. Certain Anti-Takeover Effects Multiband is subject to Minnesota statutes regulating business combinations and restricting voting rights of certain persons acquiring shares of Multiband. These anti-takeover statutes may render more difficult or tend to discourage a merger, tender offer or proxy contest, the assumption of control by a holder of a large block of Multiband's securities, or the removal of incumbent management. Volatility of Multiband's Common Stock The trading price of our common stock has been and is likely to be volatile. The stock market has experienced extreme volatility, and this volatility has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. We cannot be sure that an active public market for our common stock will continue after this offering. Investors may not be able to sell the common stock at or above the price they paid for their common stock, or at all. Prices for the common stock will be determined in the marketplace and may be influenced by many factors, including variations in our financial results, changes in earnings estimates by industry research analysts, investors' perceptions of us and general economic, industry and market conditions. Future Sales of Our Common Stock May Lower Our Stock Price If our existing shareholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock, the market price of the common stock could decline significantly. The perception in the public market that our existing shareholders might sell shares of common stock could depress our market price. Back to Table of Contents Competition We face competition from others who are competing for a share of the MDU market, including other satellite companies, cable companies and telephone companies. Some of these companies have significantly greater assets and resources than we do. Forward-Looking Statements This document contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities law. Terminology such as "may," "will," "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "continue," "predict," or other similar words, identify forward-looking statements. These statements discuss future expectations, contain projections of results of operations or of financial condition or state other forward-looking information. Forward-looking statements appear in a number of places in this prospectus and include statements regarding our intent, belief or current expectation about, among other things, trends affecting the industries in which we operate, as well as the industries we service, and our business and growth strategies. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in these forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those predicted in the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those set forth in "Risk Factors." Item 