ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Information required by this Item is included in the 2005 AT&T Annual Report to Stockholders under the heading “Risk Factors” on page 49 through page 51 which is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2). 11 AT&T Inc. CAUTIONARY LANGUAGE CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Information set forth in this report contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties, and actual results could differ materially. Many of these factors are discussed in more detail in the “Risk Factors” section. We claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The following factors could cause our future results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements: • Adverse economic changes in the markets served by us or in countries in which we have significant investments. • Changes in available technology and the effects of such changes including product substitutions and deployment costs. • Increases in our benefit plans’ costs including increases due to adverse changes in the U.S. securities markets, resulting in worse-than-assumed investment returns and discount rates, and adverse medical cost trends. • The final outcome of FCC proceedings and reopenings of such proceedings and judicial review, if any, of such proceedings, including issues relating to access charges, broadband deployment, availability and pricing of unbundled network elements and platforms (UNE-Ps) and unbundled loop and transport elements (EELs). • The final outcome of regulatory proceedings in the states in which we operate and reopenings of such proceedings, and judicial review, if any, of such proceedings, including proceedings relating to interconnection terms, access charges, universal service, UNE-Ps and resale and wholesale rates, broadband deployment including Project Lightspeed, performance measurement plans, service standards and traffic compensation. • Enactment of additional state, federal and/or foreign regulatory and tax laws and regulations pertaining to our subsidiaries and foreign investments. • Our ability to absorb revenue losses caused by increasing competition, including offerings using alternative technologies (e.g., cable, wireless and VoIP) and UNE-P requirements, and our ability to maintain capital expenditures. • The extent of competition and the resulting pressure on access line totals and wireline and wireless operating margins. • Our ability to develop attractive and profitable product/service offerings to offset increasing competition in our wireline and wireless markets. • The ability of our competitors to offer product/service offerings at lower prices due to lower cost structures and regulatory and legislative actions adverse to us, including state regulatory proceedings relating to UNE-Ps and nonregulation of comparable alternative technologies (e.g., VoIP). • The timing, extent and cost of deployment of our Project Lightspeed broadband initiative; the development of attractive and profitable service offerings; the extent to which regulatory, franchise fees and build-out requirements apply to this initiative, and; the availability and reliability of the various technologies required to provide such offerings. • The issuance by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other accounting oversight bodies of new accounting standards or changes to existing standards. • The issuance by the Internal Revenue Service and/or state tax authorities of new tax regulations or changes to existing standards and actions by federal, state or local tax agencies and judicial authorities with respect to applying applicable tax laws and regulations; and the resolution of disputes with any taxing jurisdictions. • The impact of the wireless joint venture with BellSouth, known as Cingular, including: marketing and product-development efforts; customer acquisition and retention costs; access to additional spectrum; network upgrades; technological advancements; industry consolidation, including the acquisition of AT&T Wireless, and; availability and cost of capital. • Cingular’s failure to achieve, in the amounts and within the time frame expected, the capital and expense synergies and other benefits expected from its acquisition of AT&T Wireless. • The impact of our acquisition of ATTC, including the risk that the businesses will not be integrated successfully; the risk that the cost savings and any other synergies from the acquisition may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; disruption from the acquisition making it more difficult to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers; and competition and its effect on pricing, spending, third-party relationships and revenues. • Changes in our corporate strategies, such as changing network requirements or acquisitions and dispositions, to respond to competition and regulatory, legislative and technological developments. Readers are cautioned that other factors discussed in this report, although not enumerated here, also could materially affect our future earnings. 12 AT&T Inc. 