Item 1A. Risk Factors We will continue to face significant competition, which may reduce our market share and lower our profits. Rapid development in telecommunications technologies, such as wireless, cable and VoIP, has increased competition in the telecommunications industry. As a result, we compete with not only traditional communications service providers, but also new competitors such as cable companies, satellite companies, wireless providers and VoIP providers. These competitors are typically subject to less regulation and therefore are able to offer services at lower cost. In addition, these competitors may have lower cost structures than we do because they do not have a 12 BELLSOUTH 2005 Table of Contents unionized workforce, they offer lower benefits to employees and they have fewer retirees (as most of the competitors are relatively new companies). The increased competition could put further pressure on the price of the services provided by us and may result in reduced revenues and profits. In addition, our print and online yellow pages products face significant competition, with many different media competing for advertising revenue. Further, competition for directory sales agency contracts for the sale of advertising in publications of nonaffiliated companies also continues to be strong. Our ability to maintain leading technological capabilities is uncertain. Our operating results will depend to a significant extent upon our and Cingular Wireless’ ability to continue to expand our service offerings and to reduce the costs of providing our existing services. We cannot assure you that we or Cingular Wireless will successfully develop and market new service opportunities in a timely or cost-effective manner. The success of new service development depends on many factors, including proper identification of customer needs, cost, timely completion and introduction of new products, product differentiation from offerings of competitors and market acceptance. Technology in the telecommunications industry changes rapidly, which could cause our or Cingular Wireless’ services and products to become obsolete. We cannot assure you that we and our suppliers will be able to keep pace with technological developments. If the new technologies on which we and Cingular Wireless intend to focus our investments fail to achieve acceptance in the marketplace, we and Cingular Wireless could suffer a material adverse effect on our future competitive position that could cause a reduction in our revenues and net income. For example, our competitors could be the first to obtain proprietary technologies that are perceived by the marketplace as being superior. Furthermore, one or more of the technologies under development for our use could become obsolete prior to its introduction. In addition, delays in the delivery of components or other unforeseen problems in our or Cingular Wireless’ communication systems may occur that could materially adversely affect our or Cingular Wireless’ ability to generate revenue, offer new services and remain competitive. Maintaining our networks requires significant capital expenditures and our inability or failure to maintain our networks would have a material impact on our market share and ability to generate revenue. During the year ended December 31, 2005, wireline capital expenditures totaled $3.2 billion (excluding $211 million associated with Hurricane Katrina) and Cingular Wireless’ capital expenditures totaled $7.5 billion. Our and Cingular Wireless’ capital expenditures are expected to continue at similar levels in 2006, excluding any significant expenditures associated with Hurricane Katrina. Either of us could incur significant additional capital expenditures as a result of unanticipated developments, regulatory changes and other events that impact our business. If we or Cingular Wireless are unable or fail to adequately maintain or expand our networks to meet customer needs, there could be a material adverse impact on our market share and ability to generate revenue. We provide services to our customers over access lines, and if we lose access lines, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our wireline business generates revenue by delivering voice and data services over access lines. We have experienced access line loss of 18.4 percent for the period from December 31, 2000 through December 31, 2005 due to challenging economic conditions, increased competition and technology substitution. We are seeking to improve our competitive position through product bundling and other sales and marketing initiatives. However, we may continue to experience net access line loss in our markets. An inability to retain access lines could adversely affect our business and results of operations. The regulatory regime under which we operate could change to our detriment. We are subject to various US federal regulations, including substantial regulation by the FCC. FCC rules and regulations are subject to change in response to industry developments, changes in law, new technologies and political considerations. In addition, we are subject to the regulatory authority of state commissions, which generally have the power to regulate intrastate rates and services, including local, long-distance and network access services. Our business could be materially adversely affected by the adoption of new laws, policies and regulations or changes to existing regulations. The development of new technologies, such as Internet Protocol-based services including VoIP and super high-speed broadband and video, for example, have created or potentially could create conflicting regulation between the FCC and various state and local authorities, which may involve lengthy litigation to resolve and may result in outcomes unfavorable to us. Unfavorable regulations imposed at the federal or state level could cause us to experience additional declines in access line revenues and could reduce our invested capital and employment levels related to those services. It is difficult to predict either the outcome of proceedings before the FCC, state PSCs and the courts or the FCC’s and the state PSCs’ future rule-making activities. Any adverse decision by the courts, the FCC or the state PSCs could have a materially adverse effect on our operations. We may not be successful in our efforts to maintain a reduced cost structure, and the actions that we take in order to reduce our costs could have long-term adverse effects on our business. We have taken, and continue to take, various actions to transition our company to a reduced cost structure. In response to declining revenues, beginning in 2001 we reduced our expenses, decreased our workforce by approximately 19,000 (including a management reduction of 1,500 announced in December 2005 that is not yet complete), froze hiring and reduced discretionary spending. There are several risks inherent in our efforts to maintain a reduced cost structure. These include the risk that we will not be able to reduce expenditures quickly BELLSOUTH 2005 13 Table of Contents enough and hold them at a level necessary to sustain or increase profitability, and that we may have to undertake further restructuring initiatives that would entail additional charges and cause us to take additional actions. There is also the risk that cost-cutting initiatives will impair our ability to effectively develop new products, to remain competitive and to operate effectively. Each of the above measures could have long-term effects on our business by reducing our pool of technical talent, decreasing or slowing product development, making it more difficult for us to respond to customers, and limiting our ability to hire and retain key personnel. These circumstances could adversely affect our operating results, which could adversely affect our stock price. Third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling products. Although we do not believe that any of our products or services infringe the valid intellectual property rights of third parties, we may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology, products or services. Any litigation growing out of third party patents or other intellectual property claims could be costly and time-consuming and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. The complexity of the technology involved and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation increase these risks. Resolution of claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly license agreements. Likewise, we may not be able to obtain license agreements on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain of our products. Further, we often rely on licenses of third party intellectual property useful for our businesses. We cannot ensure that these licenses will be available in the future on favorable terms or at all. Third parties may infringe our intellectual property, and we may expend significant resources enforcing our rights or suffer competitive injury. Our success depends in significant part on the competitive advantage we gain from our proprietary technology and other valuable intellectual property assets. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets protections, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. If we fail to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our operating results. Our pending patent and trademark registration applications may not be allowed, or competitors may challenge the validity or scope of our patents, copyrights or trademarks. Further, we may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and police our intellectual property rights. We may not be able to detect third party infringements and our competitive position may be harmed before we do so. In addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies. Furthermore, some intellectual property rights are licensed to other companies, allowing them to compete with us using that intellectual property. We could incur significant costs as a result of a number of pending putative class action lawsuits, and additional significant litigation may be filed against us in the future. We have been named in several putative class action lawsuits that allege that we violated the federal securities and ERISA laws. In addition, we have been named in a putative class action lawsuit that alleges that we engaged in employment discrimination and a putative class action lawsuit that alleges that we violated the antitrust laws. We are vigorously contesting these matters, but such litigation could result in substantial costs and have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operation and cash flow. An adverse decision or settlement in any of these cases could require us to pay substantial damages or subject us to injunctive relief, either of which could have a material adverse affect on our business and operations. Further, additional significant litigation may be filed against us in the future. Our business will suffer if we are not able to retain and hire key personnel. Our future success depends partly on the continued service of our key technical, sales, marketing, executive and administrative personnel. If we fail to retain and hire a sufficient number of these personnel, we may not be able to maintain or expand our business. Since 2002, we have experienced workforce reductions and limited pay increases, which may harm our long-term ability to hire and retain key personnel. As the economy continues its recovery, there is intense competition for certain highly technical specialties in geographic areas where we recruit, and it may become more difficult to retain our key employees. Our wireline business operates primarily in the Southeast, which is likely to continue to experience severe hurricanes and tropical storms. We operate an electronics-based network with extensive outside plant in a geographic region that is susceptible to inclement weather, including hurricanes. Water (flooding in particular) and wind damage can severely damage our outside plant causing service outages, line noise or other trouble associated with damage to our plant requiring field technicians to conduct premise visits. In 2004, we experienced an unprecedented four major hurricanes within a 45 day period. Further, the damage inflicted on our network by Hurricane Katrina in August 2005 was extensive. Current predictions suggest that the Atlantic basin could experience significant hurricanes for the foreseeable future. The occurrence of severe storms could impact our revenue in affected areas and could cause us to experience higher than normal levels of expense and capital expenditures. 14 BELLSOUTH 2005 Table of Contents Uncertainty in the US securities markets and adverse medical cost trends could cause our pension and postretirement costs to increase. Our pension and postretirement cost have increased in recent years, primarily due to a continued increase in medical and prescription drug costs. Investment returns of our pension funds depend largely on trends in the US securities markets and the US economy in general. In particular, uncertainty in the US securities markets and US economy could result in investment returns less than those previously assumed and a decline in the value of plan assets used in pension and postretirement calculations, which we would be required to recognize over the next several years under generally accepted accounting principles. Should the securities markets decline and medical and prescription drug costs continue to increase significantly, we would expect to face increasing annual combined net pension and postretirement costs. A downgrade of our debt rating could increase our borrowing costs. At December 31, 2005, our long-term debt rating was A2 from Moody’s Investor Service and A from Standard and Poor’s. Our short-term debt rating at December 31, 2005 was P-1 from Moody’s and A-1 from Standard and Poor’s. Moody’s maintains a negative outlook on both our short-and long-term debt ratings, and Standard & Poor’s recently placed our short- and long-term credit ratings on CreditWatch with negative implications. A downgrade of our debt rating could increase our borrowing costs. If we fail to extend or renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements with our labor unions when they expire, or if our unionized employees were to engage in a strike or other work stoppage, our business and operating results could be materially harmed. We are a party to collective bargaining agreements with our labor unions, which represent a significant number of our employees. Although we believe that our relations with our employees are satisfactory, no assurance can be given that we will be able to successfully extend or renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements when they expire from time to time. If we fail to extend or renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements, if disputes with our unions arise, or if our unionized workers engage in a strike or a work stoppage, we could experience a significant disruption of operations or incur higher ongoing labor costs, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may affect the financial markets and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Terrorist attacks may negatively affect our operations and financial condition. There can be no assurance that there will not be future terrorist attacks against the United States of America or US businesses, or armed conflict involving the United States of America. Terrorist attacks or other acts of violence or war may directly impact our physical facilities or those of our customers and vendors. Further, these events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the United States and world financial markets and economy. They could result in an economic recession in the United States or abroad. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Cingular Wireless could fail to achieve, in the amounts and within the timeframe expected, the capital and expense synergies and other benefits expected from its acquisition of AT&T Wireless. In October 2004, Cingular Wireless, BellSouth’s wireless joint venture with AT&T, acquired AT&T Wireless for approximately $41 billion in cash. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the Cingular Wireless/AT&T Wireless merger will depend in part upon meeting certain challenges such as delivering a single, consistent and effective customer experience across all functions, integrating and rationalizing systems and administrative infrastructures, and reducing redundant facilities and resources. There can be no assurance that such challenges will be met. Failure to meet such challenges would affect BellSouth’s ability to realize the anticipated synergies, cost savings and other benefits expected from the merger, which could adversely affect the value of BellSouth common stock. In addition, if the Cingular Wireless/AT&T Wireless merger fails to achieve, in the amount and within the timeframe expected, the capital and expense synergies and other benefits expected, there may be an adverse impact on Cingular Wireless’ operating results, which may adversely affect the financial results of BellSouth. Cingular Wireless faces substantial competition in all aspects of its business as competition continues to increase in the wireless communications industry. On average, Cingular Wireless has four to five other wireless competitors in each of its service areas and competes for customers based principally on reputation, network quality, customer service, price and service offerings. Cingular Wireless’ competitors are principally three national providers and a larger number of regional providers of cellular, PCS and other wireless communications services. Cingular Wireless also competes with resellers and wireline service providers. Moreover, Cingular Wireless may experience significant competition from companies that provide similar services using other communications technologies and services. While some of these technologies and services are now operational, others are being developed or may be developed in the future. Competition is expected to continue to put pressure on pricing, margins and customer turnover. BellSouth and AT&T may have differences of opinion with respect to the strategic direction and oversight of Cingular Wireless, which could adversely affect our ability to cooperate as the owners of Cingular Wireless and impair Cingular Wireless’ ability to respond effectively to the competitive environment. These competitive issues could result in a material adverse effect on its ability to achieve revenue and profit growth, and this in turn could hurt BellSouth’s bottom line BELLSOUTH 2005 15 Table of Contents based on its 40 percent share in Cingular Wireless’ net income. For a more detailed discussion of risks related to our wireless business, see the “Risk Factors” section of Cingular Wireless’ Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, which is incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K and is attached hereto as Exhibit 99a. Item 1B. Unresolved SEC Staff Comments None. 