ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Information required by this Item is included in the Annual Report under the heading “Risk Factors” on pages 55 through 57 which is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2). CAUTIONARY LANGUAGE CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS The following factors could cause our future results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements: · Adverse economic and/or capital access changes in the markets served by us or in countries in which we have significant investments, including the impact on customer demand and our ability and our suppliers’ ability to access financial markets. · Changes in available technology and the effects of such changes, including product substitutions and deployment costs. · Increases in our benefit plans’ costs, including increases due to adverse changes in the U.S. and foreign securities markets, resulting in worse-than-assumed investment returns and discount rates and adverse medical cost trends and unfavorable healthcare legislation and regulations. · The final outcome of Federal Communications Commission and other federal agency proceedings and reopenings of such proceedings and judicial review, if any, of such proceedings, including issues relating to access charges, broadband deployment, E911 services, competition, net neutrality, unbundled loop and transport elements, wireless license awards and renewals and wireless services. · The final outcome of regulatory proceedings in the states in which we operate and reopenings of such proceedings and judicial review, if any, of such proceedings, including proceedings relating to Interconnection terms, access charges, universal service, unbundled network elements and resale and wholesale rates, broadband deployment including our U-verse services, net neutrality, performance measurement plans, service standards and traffic compensation. · Enactment of additional state, federal and/or foreign regulatory and tax laws and regulations pertaining to our subsidiaries and foreign investments, including laws and regulations that reduce our incentive to invest in our networks, resulting in lower revenue growth and/or higher operating costs. · Our ability to absorb revenue losses caused by increasing competition, including offerings that use alternative technologies (e.g., cable, wireless and VoIP) and our ability to maintain capital expenditures. · The extent of competition and the resulting pressure on customer and access line totals and wireline and wireless operating margins. · Our ability to develop attractive and profitable product/service offerings to offset increasing competition in our wireless and wireline markets. · The ability of our competitors to offer product/service offerings at lower prices due to lower cost structures and regulatory and legislative actions adverse to us, including state regulatory proceedings relating to unbundled network elements and nonregulation of comparable alternative technologies (e.g., VoIP). · The timing, extent and cost of deployment of our U-verse services; the development of attractive and profitable service offerings; the extent to which regulatory, franchise fees and build-out requirements apply to this initiative; and the availability, cost and/or reliability of the various technologies and/or content required to provide such offerings. · Our continued ability to attract and offer a diverse portfolio of devices, some on an exclusive basis. · The availability and cost of additional wireless spectrum and regulations relating to licensing and technical standards and deployment and usage, including network management rules. · Our ability to manage growth in wireless data services, including network quality. · The outcome of pending or threatened litigation, including patent and product safety claims by or against third parties. · The impact on our networks and business from major equipment failures, our inability to obtain handsets, equipment/software or have handsets, equipment/software serviced in a timely and cost-effective manner from suppliers, severe weather conditions, natural disasters, pandemics, energy shortages, wars or terrorist attacks. · The issuance by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other accounting oversight bodies of new accounting standards or changes to existing standards. · The issuance by the Internal Revenue Service and/or state tax authorities of new tax regulations or changes to existing standards and actions by federal, state or local tax agencies and judicial authorities with respect to applying applicable tax laws and regulations and the resolution of disputes with any taxing jurisdictions. · Our ability to adequately fund our wireless operations, including payment for additional spectrum; network upgrades and technological advancements. · Changes in our corporate strategies, such as changing network requirements or acquisitions and dispositions, which may require significant amounts of cash or stock, to respond to competition and regulatory, legislative and technological developments. Readers are cautioned that other factors discussed in this report, although not enumerated here, also could materially affect our future earnings. 8 AT&T Inc. 