Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider each of the risks described below, together with all of the other information contained in this report, before deciding to invest in shares of our common stock. If any of the following risks develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected, the trading price of your shares could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to the Oil and Natural Gas Industry and Our Business A substantial or extended decline in oil and natural gas prices may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations and our ability to meet our capital expenditure obligations and financial commitments. The price we receive for our oil and natural gas production heavily influences our revenue, profitability, access to capital and future rate of growth. Oil and natural gas are commodities and, therefore, their prices are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand. Historically, the markets for oil and natural gas have been volatile. These markets will likely continue to be volatile in the future. The prices we receive for our production, and the levels of our production, depend on numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include the following: • worldwide and regional economic conditions impacting the global supply and demand for oil and natural gas; • the actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC; • the price and quantity of imports of foreign oil and natural gas; • political conditions in or affecting other oil-producing and natural gas-producing countries, including the current conflicts in the Middle East and conditions in South America and Russia; • the level of global oil and natural gas exploration and production; • the level of global oil and natural gas inventories; • localized supply and demand fundamentals and transportation availability; • weather conditions; • technological advances affecting energy consumption; and • the price and availability of alternative fuels. Furthermore, the current worldwide financial and credit crisis has reduced the availability of liquidity and credit to fund the continuation and expansion of industrial business operations worldwide. The shortage of liquidity and credit combined with recent substantial losses in worldwide equity markets has lead to a worldwide economic recession. The slowdown in economic activity caused by such recession has reduced worldwide demand for energy and resulted in lower oil and natural gas prices. Oil prices declined from record high levels in early July 2008 of over $140 per Bbl to below $35 per Bbl in February 2009, while natural gas prices declined from over $13 per Mcf to approximately $4 per Mcf over the same period. Lower oil and natural gas prices will reduce our cash flows and borrowing ability. For example, although our average realized price received for oil and natural gas was $77.66 per Boe for the year ended December 31, 2008, it was bolstered by record oil prices for the first half of the year. In the fourth quarter of 2008, our average realized price received for oil and natural gas declined to $38.80 per Boe. See -”Our exploration, development and exploitation projects require substantial capital expenditures. We may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a decline in our oil and natural gas reserves.” Lower oil and natural gas prices may also reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically. 20 Table of Contents Substantial decreases in oil and natural gas prices would render uneconomic a significant portion of our exploration, development and exploitation projects. This may result in our having to make significant downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves. As a result, a substantial or extended decline in oil or natural gas prices may materially and adversely affect our future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or ability to finance planned capital expenditures. In addition, because our producing properties are geographically concentrated in the Rocky Mountain region, we are vulnerable to fluctuations in pricing in that area. In particular, 76% of our production during the fourth quarter of 2008 was from the Rocky Mountain region. As a result of this concentration, we may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of regional supply and demand factors, transportation capacity constraints, curtailment of production or interruption of transportation of oil produced from the wells in these areas. Such factors can cause significant fluctuation in our realized oil and natural gas prices. For example, the difference between the average NYMEX oil price and our average realized oil price for the year ended December 31, 2008 was $9.50 per Bbl, whereas the difference between the NYMEX oil price and our realized oil price for the year ended December 31, 2007 was $8.85 per Bbl. Our exploration, development and exploitation projects require substantial capital expenditures. We may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a decline in our oil and natural gas reserves. The oil and natural gas industry is capital intensive. We make and expect to continue to make substantial capital expenditures in our business for the development, exploitation, production and acquisition of oil and natural gas reserves. Our cash flow used in investing activities was $930.8 million related to capital and exploration expenditures in 2008. Our budgeted capital expenditures for 2009 are expected to be approximately $275.0 million with $211.0 million allocated for drilling and completion operations. To date, these capital expenditures have been financed with cash generated by operations and through borrowings under our revolving credit facility. The actual amount and timing of our future capital expenditures may differ materially from our estimates as a result of, among other things, commodity prices, actual drilling results, the availability of drilling rigs and other services and equipment, and regulatory, technological and competitive developments. We expect to manage capital expenditures for 2009 to be inline with our cash flows from operations, and expect our capital expenditures during 2009 to be significantly lower than our 2008 capital expenditures due to our desire to cut back on spending due to the current economic crisis and steep drop in oil and natural gas prices. Continued weakness in commodity prices may result in a decrease in our actual capital expenditures. Conversely, a significant improvement in product prices could result in an increase in our capital expenditures. We intend to finance our future capital expenditures primarily through cash flow from operations and through borrowings under our revolving credit facility; however, our financing needs may require us to alter or increase our capitalization substantially through the issuance of debt or equity securities or the sale of assets. The issuance of additional debt may require that a portion of our cash flow from operations be used for the payment of interest and principal on our debt, thereby reducing our ability to use cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions. The issuance of additional equity securities could have a dilutive effect on the value of your common stock. Our cash flow from operations and access to capital are subject to a number of variables, including: • our proved reserves; • the level of oil and natural gas we are able to produce from existing wells; • the prices at which our oil and natural gas are sold; • our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves; and • the ability of our banks to lend. If our revenues or the borrowing base under our revolving credit facility decrease as a result of lower oil or natural gas prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, we may have limited ability 21 Table of Contents to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations at current levels. If additional capital is needed, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing. If cash generated by operations or cash available under our revolving credit facility is not sufficient to meet our capital requirements, the failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of our operations relating to development of our prospects, which in turn could lead to a decline in our oil and natural gas reserves, and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Drilling for and producing oil and natural gas are high risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our future financial condition and results of operations will depend on the success of our exploitation, exploration, development and production activities. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to numerous risks beyond our control, including the risk that drilling will not result in commercially viable oil or natural gas production. Our decisions to purchase, explore, develop or otherwise exploit prospects or properties will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. For a discussion of the uncertainty involved in these processes, see “—Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves.” Our cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain before drilling commences. Further, many factors may curtail, delay or cancel our scheduled drilling projects, including the following: • delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with regulatory requirements; • pressure or irregularities in geological formations; • shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment and qualified personnel; • equipment failures or accidents; • adverse weather conditions, such as blizzards and ice storms; • reductions in oil and natural gas prices; • limited availability of financing at acceptable rates; • title problems; and • limitations in the market for oil and natural gas. Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and many assumptions, including assumptions relating to current and future economic conditions and commodity prices. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect our estimated quantities and present value of our reserves. See “Item 1. Business—Proved Reserves” for information about our estimated oil and natural gas reserves and the PV-10 and standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows as of December 31, 2008. In order to prepare our estimates, we must project production rates and timing of development expenditures. We must also analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires economic assumptions about matters such as oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves will vary from our estimates. Any significant 22 Table of Contents variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of our reserves. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. You should not assume that the present value of future net revenues from our proved reserves is the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, we generally base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves on prices and costs on the date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the present value estimate. If oil prices decline by $1.00 per Bbl, then our PV-10 as of December 31, 2008 would decrease approximately $47 million. If natural gas prices decline by $0.10 per Mcf, then our PV-10 as of December 31, 2008 would decrease approximately $8 million. Our use of enhanced recovery methods creates uncertainties that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. One of our business strategies is to commercially develop unconventional oil and natural gas resource plays using enhanced recovery technologies. For example, we inject water and high-pressure air into formations on some of our properties to increase the production of oil and natural gas. The additional production and reserves attributable to the use of these enhanced recovery methods are inherently difficult to predict. If our enhanced recovery programs do not allow for the extraction of oil and natural gas in the manner or to the extent that we anticipate, our future results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. If oil and natural gas prices decrease, we may be required to take write-downs of the carrying values of our oil and natural gas properties. Accounting rules require that we periodically review the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties for possible impairment. Based on specific market factors and circumstances at the time of prospective impairment reviews, and the continuing evaluation of development plans, production data, economics and other factors, we may be required to write down the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties. A write-down constitutes a non-cash charge to earnings. We may incur impairment charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the periods in which such charges are taken. Unless we replace our oil and natural gas reserves, our reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. Unless we conduct successful development, exploitation and exploration activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, our proved reserves will decline as those reserves are produced. Producing oil and natural gas reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Our future oil and natural gas reserves and production, and therefore our cash flow and results of operations, are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. We may not be able to develop, exploit, find or acquire sufficient additional reserves to replace our current and future production. If we are unable to replace our current and future production, the value of our reserves will decrease, and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. The unavailability or high cost of additional drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oilfield services could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans within our budget and on a timely basis. Shortages or the high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel or oilfield services could delay or cause us to incur significant expenditures that are not provided for in our capital budget, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 23 Table of Contents We may incur substantial losses and be subject to substantial liability claims as a result of our oil and natural gas operations. Additionally we may not be insured for, or our insurance may be inadequate to protect us against, these risks. We are not insured against all risks. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured and underinsured events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to all of the operating risks associated with drilling for and producing oil and natural gas, including the possibility of: • environmental hazards, such as uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, brine, well fluids, toxic gas or other pollution into the environment, including groundwater and shoreline contamination; • abnormally pressured formations; • mechanical difficulties, such as stuck oilfield drilling and service tools and casing collapse; • fires, explosions and ruptures of pipelines in connection with our high-pressure air injection operations; • personal injuries and death; and • natural disasters. Any of these risks could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations or result in substantial losses to us as a result of: • injury or loss of life; • damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; • pollution and other environmental damage; • regulatory investigations and penalties; • suspension of our operations; and • repair and remediation costs. We may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Prospects that we decide to drill may not yield oil or natural gas in commercially viable quantities. Prospects that we decide to drill that do not yield oil or natural gas in commercially viable quantities will adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In this report, we describe some of our current prospects and our plans to explore those prospects. Our prospects are in various stages of evaluation, ranging from a prospect which is ready to drill to a prospect that will require substantial additional seismic data processing and interpretation. There is no way to predict in advance of drilling and testing whether any particular prospect will yield oil or natural gas in sufficient quantities to recover drilling or completion costs or to be economically viable. The use of seismic data and other technologies and the study of producing fields in the same area will not enable us to know conclusively prior to drilling whether oil or natural gas will be present or, if present, whether oil or natural gas will be present in commercial quantities. We cannot assure you that the analogies we draw from available data from other wells, more fully explored prospects or producing fields will be applicable to our drilling prospects. 24 Table of Contents Our identified drilling locations are scheduled out over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling. Our management has specifically identified and scheduled drilling locations as an estimation of our future multi-year drilling activities on our existing acreage. These drilling locations represent a significant part of our growth strategy. Our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of uncertainties, including oil and natural gas prices, the availability of capital, costs, drilling results, regulatory approvals and other factors. The North Dakota Bakken Shale and Arkoma Woodford projects comprise the majority of these drilling locations. Due to limited production history on the relatively few number of wells drilled in these projects, we are unable to predict with certainty the quantity of future production from wells to be drilled in these projects. If future drilling results in these projects do not establish sufficient reserves to achieve an economic return, we may curtail drilling in these projects. Because of these uncertainties, we do not know if the numerous potential drilling locations we have identified will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce oil or natural gas from these or any other potential drilling locations. In addition, unless production is established within the spacing units covering the undeveloped acres on which some of the locations are identified, the leases for such acreage will expire. As of December 31, 2008, we had leases representing 152,105 net acres expiring in 2009, 221,522 net acres expiring in 2010, and 360,123 net acres expiring in 2011. As such, our actual drilling activities may materially differ from those presently identified, which could adversely affect our business. Market conditions or operational impediments may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay our production. Market conditions or the unavailability of satisfactory oil and natural gas transportation arrangements may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay our production. The availability of a ready market for our oil and natural gas production depends on a number of factors, including the demand for and supply of oil and natural gas and the proximity of reserves to pipelines and terminal facilities. Our ability to market our production depends in substantial part on the availability and capacity of gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities owned and operated by third parties. Our failure to obtain such services on acceptable terms could materially harm our business. We may be required to shut in wells due to lack of a market or inadequacy or unavailability of crude oil or natural gas pipeline or gathering system capacity. In addition, if gas quality specifications for the third party natural gas pipelines with which we connect change so as to restrict our ability to transport natural gas, our access to natural gas markets could be impeded. If our production becomes shut in for any of these or other reasons, we would be unable to realize revenue from those wells until other arrangements were made to deliver the products to market. We have been an early entrant into new or emerging plays. As a result, our drilling results in these areas are uncertain, and the value of our undeveloped acreage will decline if drilling results are unsuccessful. While our costs to acquire undeveloped acreage in new or emerging plays have generally been less than those of later entrants into a developing play, our drilling results in these areas are more uncertain than drilling results in areas that are developed and producing. Since new or emerging plays have limited or no production history, we are unable to use past drilling results in those areas to help predict our future drilling results. As a result, our cost of drilling, completing and operating wells in these areas may be higher than initially expected, and the value of our undeveloped acreage will decline if drilling results are unsuccessful. We are subject to complex federal, state, local, provincial and other laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting our operations or expose us to significant liabilities. Our oil and natural gas exploration, production and transportation operations are subject to complex and stringent laws and regulations. In order to conduct our operations in compliance with these laws and regulations, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits, approvals and certificates from various federal, state, local and provincial governmental authorities. We may incur substantial costs in order to maintain compliance with these 25 Table of Contents existing laws and regulations. In addition, our costs of compliance may increase if existing laws and regulations are revised or reinterpreted, or if new laws and regulations become applicable to our operations. Such costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to federal, state, local and provincial laws and regulations as interpreted and enforced by governmental authorities possessing jurisdiction over various aspects of the exploration for, and the production and transportation of, oil and natural gas. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations, as interpreted and enforced, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See “Regulation of the Oil and Natural Gas Industry” for a description of the laws and regulations that affect us. Strict, joint and several liabilities may be imposed under certain environmental laws, which could cause us to become liable for the conduct of others or for consequences of our own actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. In addition, claims for damages to persons or property, including natural resources, may result from our operations. New laws, regulations or enforcement policies could be more stringent and impose unforeseen liabilities or significantly increase compliance costs. If we were not able to recover the resulting costs through insurance or increased revenues, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Should we fail to comply with all applicable FERC administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines. Under the EP Act 2005, FERC has civil penalty authority under the NGA to impose penalties for current violations of up to $1 million per day for each violation and disgorgement of profits associated with any violation. While our systems have not been regulated by FERC as a natural gas company under the NGA, FERC has adopted regulations that may subject certain of our otherwise non-FERC jurisdictional facilities to FERC annual reporting and daily scheduled flow and capacity posting requirements. Additional rules and legislation pertaining to those and other matters may be considered or adopted by FERC from time to time. Failure to comply with those regulations in the future could subject Continental to civil penalty liability. Our operations may incur substantial liabilities in connection with climate change legislation and regulatory initiatives. Recent scientific studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases, commonly referred to as “greenhouse gases” and including carbon dioxide and methane, may be contributing to warming of the Earth’s atmosphere. In response to such studies, the U.S. Congress is considering legislation to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases and more than one-third of the states, either individually or through multi-state initiatives, already have begun implementing legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. Also, the U.S. Supreme Court’s holding in its 2007 decision, Massachusetts, et al. v. EPA, that carbon dioxide may be regulated as an “air pollutant” under the federal Clean Air Act could result in future regulation of greenhouse gas emissions from stationary sources, even if Congress does not adopt new legislation specifically addressing emissions of greenhouse gases. In July 2008, EPA released an “Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking” regarding possible future regulation of greenhouse gas emissions under the Clean Air Act. Although the notice did not propose any specific, new regulatory requirements for greenhouse gases, it indicates that federal regulation of greenhouse gas emissions could occur in the near future. Although it is not possible at this time to predict how legislation or new regulations that may be adopted to address greenhouse gas emissions would impact our business, any such future laws and regulations could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, and could have an adverse effect on our business or demand for the oil and natural gas we produce. 26 Table of Contents Competition in the oil and natural gas industry is intense, making it more difficult for us to acquire properties, market oil and natural gas and secure trained personnel. Our ability to acquire additional prospects and to find and develop reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment for acquiring properties, marketing oil and natural gas and securing trained personnel. Also, there is substantial competition for capital available for investment in the oil and natural gas industry. Many of our competitors possess and employ financial, technical and personnel resources substantially greater than ours. Those companies may be able to pay more for productive oil and natural gas properties and exploratory prospects and to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or personnel resources permit. In addition, companies may be able to offer better compensation packages to attract and retain qualified personnel than we are able to offer. The cost to attract and retain qualified personnel has increased over the past three years due to competition and may increase substantially in the future. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring prospective reserves, developing reserves, marketing hydrocarbons, attracting and retaining quality personnel and raising additional capital, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The loss of senior management or technical personnel could adversely affect operations. We depend on the services of our senior management and technical personnel. The loss of the services of our senior management or technical personnel, including Harold G. Hamm, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We do not maintain, nor do we plan to obtain, any insurance against the loss of any of these individuals. Seasonal weather conditions and lease stipulations adversely affect our ability to conduct drilling activities in some of the areas where we operate. Oil and natural gas operations in the Rocky Mountains are adversely affected by seasonal weather conditions and lease stipulations designed to protect various wildlife. In certain areas, including parts of Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota, and Wyoming, drilling and other oil and natural gas activities can only be conducted during the spring and summer months. This limits our ability to operate in those areas and can intensify competition during those months for drilling rigs, oilfield equipment, services, supplies and qualified personnel, which may lead to periodic shortages. These constraints and the resulting shortages or high costs could delay our operations and materially increase our operating and capital costs. Our revolving credit facility contains certain covenants that may inhibit our ability to make certain investments, incur additional indebtedness and engage in certain other transactions, which could adversely affect our ability to meet our future goals. Our revolving credit facility includes certain covenants that, among other things, restrict: • our investments, loans and advances and the paying of dividends and other restricted payments; • our incurrence of additional indebtedness; • the granting of liens, other than liens created pursuant to the revolving credit facility and certain permitted liens; • mergers, consolidations and sales of all or substantial part of our business or properties; • the hedging, forward sale or swap of our production of crude oil or natural gas or other commodities; • the sale of assets; and • our capital expenditures. Our revolving credit facility requires us to maintain certain financial ratios, such as leverage ratios. All of these restrictive covenants may restrict our ability to expand or pursue our business strategies. Our ability to 27 Table of Contents comply with these and other provisions of our revolving credit facility may be impacted by changes in economic or business conditions, results of operations or events beyond our control. The breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our revolving credit facility, in which case, depending on the actions taken by the lenders thereunder or their successors or assignees, such lenders could elect to declare all amounts borrowed under our revolving credit facility, together with accrued interest, to be due and payable. If we were unable to repay such borrowings or interest, our lenders could proceed against their collateral. If the indebtedness under our revolving credit facility were to be accelerated, our assets may not be sufficient to repay in full such indebtedness. Increases in interest rates could adversely affect our business. Our business and operating results can be harmed by factors such as the availability, terms of and cost of capital, increases in interest rates or a reduction in credit rating. These changes could cause our cost of doing business to increase, limit our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities, reduce cash flow used for drilling and place us at a competitive disadvantage. For example, as of February 23, 2009, outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility were $474.4 million and the impact of a 1% increase in interest rates on this amount of debt would result in increased interest expense of approximately $4.7 million and a $2.9 million decrease in our net income. Recent and continuing disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets may lead to a contraction in credit availability impacting our ability to finance our operations. We require continued access to capital. A significant reduction in cash flows from operations or the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect our ability to achieve our planned growth and operating results. The continuing financial crisis may impact our business and financial condition. We may not be able to obtain funding in the capital markets on terms we find acceptable, or obtain funding under our current revolving credit facility because of the deterioration of the capital and credit markets and our borrowing base. The current credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial systems have had an impact on our business and our financial condition, and we may face challenges if economic and financial market conditions do not improve. Historically, we have used our cash flow from operations and borrowings under our revolving credit facility to fund our capital expenditures and have relied on the capital markets and asset monetization transactions to provide us with additional capital for large or exceptional transactions. A continuation of the economic crisis could further reduce the demand for oil and natural gas and continue to put downward pressure on the prices for oil and natural gas, which have declined significantly since reaching historic highs in July 2008. These price declines have negatively impacted our revenues and cash flows. We have an existing revolving credit facility with lender commitments totaling $672.5 million. In the future, we may not be able to access adequate funding under our bank credit facilities as a result of (i) a decrease in our borrowing base due to the outcome of a subsequent borrowing base redetermination, or (ii) an unwillingness or inability on the part of our lending counterparties to meet their funding obligations. The recent declines in commodity prices, or a continuing decline in those prices, could result in a determination to lower the borrowing base in the future and, in such case, we could be required to repay any indebtedness in excess of the borrowing base. The turmoil in the financial markets has adversely impacted the stability and solvency of a number of large global financial institutions. The current credit crisis makes it difficult to obtain funding in the public and private capital markets. In particular, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased substantially while the availability of funds from those markets generally has diminished significantly. Also, as a result of concerns about the general stability of financial markets and the solvency of specific counterparties, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets has increased as many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates, imposed tighter lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt at maturity at all or on terms similar to existing debt or at all, and reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide any new funding. 28 Table of Contents The credit crisis also has impacted the level of activity in the oil and natural gas property sales market. The lack of available credit and access to capital has limited and will likely continue to limit the parties interested in any proposed asset transactions and will likely reduce the values we could realize in those transactions. Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that funding, if needed, will be available to the extent required and on acceptable terms. If we are unable to access funding when needed on acceptable terms, we may not be able to fully implement our business plans, complete new property acquisitions to replace our reserves, take advantage of business opportunities, respond to competitive pressures, or refinance our debt obligations as they come due, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. The inability of our significant customers to meet their obligations to us may adversely affect our financial results. Our principal exposures to credit risk are through joint interest receivables ($156.6 million at December 31, 2008) and the sale of our oil and natural gas production ($72.4 million in receivables at December 31, 2008), which we market to energy marketing companies, refineries and affiliates. Joint interest receivables arise from billing entities who own partial interest in the wells we operate. These entities participate in our wells primarily based on their ownership in leases on which we wish to drill. We can do very little to choose who participates in our wells. We are also subject to credit risk due to concentration of our oil and natural gas receivables with several significant customers. The largest purchaser of our oil and natural gas, during the twelve months ended December 31, 2008, accounted for 44% of our total revenues. We do not require our customers to post collateral. The inability or failure of our significant customers to meet their obligations to us or their insolvency or liquidation may adversely affect our financial results. Our derivative activities could result in financial losses or could reduce our earnings. To achieve a more predictable cash flow and to reduce our exposure to adverse fluctuations in the prices of oil and natural gas, we on occasion, enter into derivative instruments for a portion of our oil and/or natural gas production, including collars and price-fix swaps. In July 2007, we entered into fixed price swaps covering 10,000 barrels of oil per day for August 2007 through April 2008 at a price of $72.90 per barrel. We did not designate any of our derivative instruments as hedges for accounting purposes and did record all derivative instruments on our balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the fair value of our derivative instruments were recognized in current earnings. Accordingly, our earnings may fluctuate significantly as a result of changes in fair value of our derivative instruments. Derivative instruments also expose us to the risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when: • production is less than the volume covered by the derivative instruments; • the counter-party to the derivative instrument defaults on its contract obligations; or • there is an increase in the differential between the underlying price in the derivative instrument and actual prices received. In addition, these types of derivative arrangements limit the benefit we would receive from increases in the prices for oil and natural gas. We may be subject to risks in connection with acquisitions. The successful acquisition of producing properties requires an assessment of several factors, including: • recoverable reserves; • future oil and natural gas prices and their appropriate differentials; • operating costs; and • potential environmental and other liabilities. 29 Table of Contents The accuracy of these assessments is inherently uncertain. In connection with these assessments, we perform a review of the subject properties that we believe to be generally consistent with industry practices. Our review will not reveal all existing or potential problems nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and capabilities. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Even when problems are identified, the seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection against all or part of the problems. We often are not entitled to contractual indemnification for environmental liabilities and acquire properties on an “as is” basis. Our business depends on oil and natural gas transportation facilities, most of which are owned by third parties. The marketability of our oil and natural gas production depends in part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipeline systems owned by third parties. The unavailability of, or lack of, available capacity on these systems and facilities could result in the shut-in of producing wells or the delay, or discontinuance of, development plans for properties. Although we have some contractual control over the transportation of our product, material changes in these business relationships could materially affect our operations. We generally do not purchase firm transportation on third party facilities and therefore, our production transportation can be interrupted by those having firm arrangements. Federal and state regulation of oil and natural gas production and transportation, tax and energy policies, changes in supply and demand, pipeline pressures, damage to or destruction of pipelines and general economic conditions could adversely affect our ability to produce, gather and transport oil and natural gas. The disruption of third-party facilities due to maintenance and/or weather could negatively impact our ability to market and deliver our products. We have no control over when or if such facilities are restored or what prices will be charged. A total shut-in of production could materially affect us due to a lack of cash flow, and if a substantial portion of the production is hedged at lower than market prices, those financial hedges would have to be paid from borrowings absent sufficient cash flow. Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer owns approximately 72.8% of our outstanding common stock, giving him influence and control in corporate transactions and other matters, including a sale of our company. As of February 23, 2009, Harold G. Hamm, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owns 123,458,708 shares of our outstanding common stock representing approximately 72.8% of our outstanding common shares. As a result, Mr. Hamm will continue to be our controlling shareholder and will continue to be able to control the election of our directors, determine our corporate and management policies and determine, without the consent of our other shareholders, the outcome of certain corporate transactions or other matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including potential mergers or acquisitions, asset sales and other significant corporate transactions. As controlling shareholder, Mr. Hamm could cause, delay or prevent a change of control of our Company. The interests of Mr. Hamm may not coincide with the interests of other holders of our common stock. Several affiliated companies controlled by Mr. Hamm provide oilfield, gathering and processing, marketing and other services to us. We expect these transactions will continue in the future and may result in conflicts of interest between Mr. Hamm’s affiliated companies and us. We can provide no assurance that any such conflicts will be resolved in our favor. 30 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There were no unresolved Securities and Exchange Commission staff comments at December 31, 2008. 