Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider each of the risks described below, together with all of the other information contained in this report, before deciding to invest in shares of our common stock. If any of the following risks develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected, the trading price of your shares could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. We are subject to certain risks and hazards due to the nature of the business activities we conduct. The risks discussed below, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, and results of operations, are not the only risks we face. We may experience additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us; or, as a result of developments occurring in the future, conditions that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, and results of operations. Risks Relating to the Crude Oil and Natural Gas Industry and Our Business A substantial or extended decline in crude oil and natural gas prices may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations and our ability to meet our capital expenditure needs and financial commitments. The price we receive for our crude oil and natural gas production heavily influences our revenue, profitability, access to capital and future rate of growth. Crude oil and natural gas are commodities and, therefore, their prices are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand. Historically, the markets for crude oil and natural gas have been volatile. These markets will likely continue to be volatile in the future. The prices we receive for our production, and the levels of our production, depend on numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include the following: • worldwide and regional economic conditions impacting the global supply and demand for crude oil and natural gas; • the actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC; • the price and quantity of imports of foreign crude oil and natural gas; • political conditions in or affecting other crude oil-producing and natural gas-producing countries, including the current conflicts in the Middle East and conditions in South America and Russia; • the level of global crude oil and natural gas exploration and production; • the level of global crude oil and natural gas inventories; • localized supply and demand fundamentals and transportation availability; • weather conditions; • technological advances affecting energy consumption; and • the price and availability of alternative fuels. The slowdown in economic activity caused by the recent worldwide economic recession reduced worldwide demand for energy and resulted in lower crude oil and natural gas prices. Crude oil prices declined from record high levels in early July 2008 of over $140 per Bbl to below $45 per Bbl in February 2009 before rebounding to prices in excess of $90 per Bbl in 2010. Natural gas prices declined from over $13 per Mcf in mid-2008 to approximately $4 per Mcf in February 2009 and remained at depressed levels throughout 2010. Lower crude oil and natural gas prices could reduce our cash flows available for capital expenditures, repayment of indebtedness and other corporate purposes; result in a decrease in the borrowing base under our revolving credit facility or otherwise limit our ability to borrow money or raise additional capital; and reduce the amount of crude oil and natural gas that we can produce economically. Substantial decreases in crude oil and natural gas prices would render uneconomic a significant portion of our exploration, development and exploitation projects. This may result in our having to make significant downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves. As a result, a substantial or extended decline in crude oil or natural gas prices may materially and adversely affect our future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or ability to finance planned capital expenditures. 21 Table of Contents In addition, because our producing properties are geographically concentrated in the North region, we are vulnerable to fluctuations in pricing in that area. In particular, 78% of our production during the fourth quarter of 2010 was from the North region. As a result of this concentration, we are significantly exposed to the impact of regional supply and demand factors, transportation capacity constraints, curtailment of production or interruption of transportation of crude oil and natural gas produced from the wells in these areas. Such factors can cause significant fluctuation in our realized crude oil and natural gas prices. For example, the difference between the average NYMEX crude oil price and our average realized crude oil price was $9.38 per Bbl for our North region properties for the year ended December 31, 2010, whereas the difference between the average NYMEX crude oil price and our average realized crude oil price was $9.02 per Bbl on a Company-wide basis for the year ended December 31, 2010. Our exploration, development and exploitation projects require substantial capital expenditures. We may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a decline in our crude oil and natural gas reserves. The crude oil and natural gas industry is capital intensive. We make and expect to continue to make substantial capital expenditures in our business for the development, exploitation, production and acquisition of crude oil and natural gas reserves. In 2010, we had $1.24 billion of capital and exploration expenditures. Our capital expenditures for 2011 are budgeted to be approximately $1.36 billion with $1.23 billion allocated for drilling and completion operations. To date, these capital expenditures have been financed with cash generated by operations, borrowings under our revolving credit facility and the issuance of senior notes. The actual amount and timing of our future capital expenditures may differ materially from our estimates as a result of, among other things, commodity prices, actual drilling results, the availability of drilling rigs and other services and equipment, and regulatory, technological and competitive developments. Continued improvement in commodity prices may result in an increase in our actual capital expenditures. Conversely, a significant decline in commodity prices could result in a decrease in our capital expenditures. We intend to finance our future capital expenditures primarily through cash flows from operations and through borrowings under our revolving credit facility; however, our financing needs may require us to alter or increase our capitalization substantially through the issuance of debt or equity securities or the sale of assets. The issuance of additional debt may require that a portion of our cash flows from operations be used for the payment of interest and principal on our debt, thereby reducing our ability to use cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions. The issuance of additional equity securities could have a dilutive effect on the value of our common stock. Our cash flows from operations and access to capital are subject to a number of variables, including: • our proved reserves; • the volume of crude oil and natural gas we are able to produce and sell from existing wells; • the prices at which our crude oil and natural gas are sold; • our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves; and • the ability of our banks to lend. If our revenues or the borrowing base under our revolving credit facility decrease as a result of lower crude oil or natural gas prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations at current levels. If additional capital is needed, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing. If cash generated by operations or cash available under our revolving credit facility is not sufficient to meet our capital requirements, the failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of our operations relating to development of our prospects, which in turn could lead to a decline in our crude oil and natural gas reserves, and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Drilling for and producing crude oil and natural gas are high risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our future financial condition and results of operations will depend on the success of our exploitation, exploration, development and production activities. Our crude oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to numerous risks beyond our control, including the risk that drilling will not result in commercially viable crude oil or natural gas production. Our decisions to purchase, explore, develop or otherwise exploit prospects or properties will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. Our cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain before drilling commences. Further, many factors may curtail, delay or cancel our scheduled drilling projects, including the following: • delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with regulatory requirements; • pressure or irregularities in geological formations; 22 Table of Contents • shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment and qualified personnel; • equipment failures or accidents; • adverse weather conditions, such as blizzards and ice storms; • reductions in crude oil and natural gas prices; • limited availability of financing at acceptable rates; • title problems; • limitations in transportation capacity or in the market for crude oil and natural gas; and • adverse governmental regulations. Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. The process of estimating crude oil and natural gas reserves is complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and many assumptions, including assumptions relating to current and future economic conditions and commodity prices. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect our estimated quantities and present value of our reserves. See Item 1. Business—Crude Oil and Natural Gas Operations, Proved Reserves for information about our estimated crude oil and natural gas reserves and the PV-10 and Standardized Measure of discounted future net cash flows as of December 31, 2010. In order to prepare our estimates, we must project production rates and the amount and timing of development expenditures. We must also analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires economic assumptions, based on historical data but projected into the future, about matters such as crude oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. Actual future production, crude oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable crude oil and natural gas reserves will vary from our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of our reserves. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing crude oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. The present value of future net revenues from our proved reserves will not necessarily be the same as the current market value of our estimated crude oil and natural gas reserves. You should not assume that the present value of future net revenues from our proved reserves is the current market value of our estimated crude oil and natural gas reserves. For the years prior to 2009, we based the estimated discounted future net revenues from our proved reserves on prices and costs in effect at year-end. In accordance with the SEC requirements that went into effect in 2009, we currently base the estimated discounted future net revenues from our proved reserves on the 12-month unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month commodity prices for the preceding twelve months. Actual future net revenues from our crude oil and natural gas properties will be affected by factors such as: • actual prices we receive for crude oil and natural gas; • actual cost and timing of development and production expenditures; • the amount and timing of actual production; and • changes in governmental regulations or taxation. The timing of both our production and our incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of crude oil and natural gas properties will affect the timing and amount of actual future net revenues from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net revenues may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the crude oil and natural gas industry in general. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the present value estimate. If crude oil prices decline by $10.00 per Bbl, then our PV-10 as of December 31, 2010 would decrease approximately $849 million. If natural gas prices decline by $1.00 per Mcf, then our PV-10 as of December 31, 2010 would decrease approximately $392 million. 23 Table of Contents Our use of enhanced recovery methods creates uncertainties that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. One of our business strategies is to commercially develop unconventional crude oil and natural gas resource plays using enhanced recovery technologies. For example, we inject water and high-pressure air into formations on some of our properties to increase the production of crude oil and natural gas. The additional production and reserves attributable to the use of these enhanced recovery methods are inherently difficult to predict. If our enhanced recovery programs do not allow for the extraction of crude oil and natural gas in the manner or to the extent that we anticipate, our future results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. If crude oil and natural gas prices decrease, we may be required to take write-downs of the carrying values of our crude oil and natural gas properties. Accounting rules require that we periodically review the carrying values of our crude oil and natural gas properties for possible impairment. Based on specific market factors and circumstances at the time of prospective impairment reviews, and the continuing evaluation of development plans, production data, economics and other factors, we may be required to write down the carrying values of our crude oil and natural gas properties. A write-down constitutes a non-cash charge to earnings. We may incur impairment charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the periods in which such charges are taken. Unless we replace our crude oil and natural gas reserves, our reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. Unless we conduct successful exploration, exploitation and development activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, our proved reserves will decline as those reserves are produced. Producing crude oil and natural gas reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Our future crude oil and natural gas reserves and production, and therefore our cash flows and results of operations, are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. We may not be able to develop, exploit, find or acquire sufficient additional reserves to replace our current and future production. If we are unable to replace our current and future production, the value of our reserves will decrease, and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. The unavailability or high cost of additional drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oilfield services could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans within our budget and on a timely basis. Shortages or the high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel or oilfield services could delay or cause us to incur significant expenditures that are not provided for in our capital budget, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may incur substantial losses and be subject to substantial liability claims as a result of our crude oil and natural gas operations. Additionally we may not be insured for, or our insurance may be inadequate to protect us against, these risks. We are not insured against all risks. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured and underinsured events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our crude oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to all of the operating risks associated with drilling for and producing crude oil and natural gas, including the possibility of: • environmental hazards, such as uncontrollable flows of crude oil, natural gas, brine, well fluids, toxic gas or other pollution into the environment, including groundwater and shoreline contamination; • abnormally pressured formations; • mechanical difficulties, such as stuck oilfield drilling and service tools and casing collapse; • fires, explosions and ruptures of pipelines; • personal injuries and death; and • natural disasters. Any of these risks could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations or result in substantial losses to us as a result of: • injury or loss of life; • damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; • pollution and other environmental damage; 24 Table of Contents • regulatory investigations and penalties; • suspension of our operations; and • repair and remediation costs. We may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Prospects that we decide to drill may not yield crude oil or natural gas in economically producible quantities. Prospects that we decide to drill that do not yield crude oil or natural gas in economically producible quantities will adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In this report, we describe some of our current prospects and our plans to explore those prospects. Our prospects are in various stages of evaluation, ranging from a prospect which is ready to drill to a prospect that will require substantial additional seismic data processing and interpretation. There is no way to predict in advance of drilling and testing whether any particular prospect will yield crude oil or natural gas in sufficient quantities to recover drilling or completion costs or to be economically producible. The use of seismic data and other technologies and the study of producing fields in the same area will not enable us to know conclusively prior to drilling whether crude oil or natural gas will be present or, if present, whether crude oil or natural gas will be present in economically producible quantities. We cannot assure you that the analogies we draw from available data from other wells, more fully explored prospects or producing fields will be applicable to our drilling prospects. Our identified drilling locations are scheduled out over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling. Our management has specifically identified and scheduled drilling locations as an estimation of our future multi-year drilling activities on our existing acreage. These drilling locations represent a significant part of our growth strategy. Our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of uncertainties, including crude oil and natural gas prices, the availability of capital, costs, drilling results, regulatory approvals and other factors. If future drilling results in these projects do not establish sufficient reserves to achieve an economic return, we may curtail drilling in these projects. Because of these uncertainties, we do not know if the numerous potential drilling locations we have identified will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce crude oil or natural gas from these or any other potential drilling locations. In addition, unless production is established within the spacing units covering the undeveloped acres on which some of the locations are identified, the leases for such acreage will expire. Unless we are able to renew expired leases, any proved undeveloped reserves associated with such leases will be removed from our proved reserves. As of December 31, 2010, we had leases representing 321,579 net acres expiring in 2011, 249,277 net acres expiring in 2012, and 423,846 net acres expiring in 2013. As such, our actual drilling activities may materially differ from those presently identified, which could adversely affect our business. Our business depends on crude oil and natural gas transportation facilities, most of which are owned by third parties. The marketability of our crude oil and natural gas production depends in part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipeline systems owned by third parties. The unavailability of, or lack of, available capacity on these systems and facilities could result in the shut-in of producing wells or the delay, or discontinuance of, development plans for properties. Although we have some contractual control over the transportation of our product, material changes in these business relationships could materially affect our operations. We generally do not purchase firm transportation on third party facilities and therefore, our production transportation can be interrupted by those having firm arrangements. Federal and state regulation of crude oil and natural gas production and transportation, tax and energy policies, changes in supply and demand, pipeline pressures, damage to or destruction of pipelines and general economic conditions could adversely affect our ability to produce, gather and transport crude oil and natural gas. The disruption of third-party facilities due to maintenance and/or weather could negatively impact our ability to market and deliver our products. We have no control over when or if such facilities are restored or what prices will be charged. A total shut-in of production could materially affect us due to a lack of cash flows, and if a substantial portion of the production is hedged at lower than market prices, those financial hedges would have to be paid from borrowings absent sufficient cash flows. We have been an early entrant into new or emerging plays. As a result, our drilling results in these areas are uncertain, and the value of our undeveloped acreage will decline if drilling results are unsuccessful. While our costs to acquire undeveloped acreage in new or emerging plays have generally been less than those of later entrants into a developing play, our drilling results in these areas are more uncertain than drilling results in areas that are developed and producing. Since new or emerging plays have limited or no production history, we are unable to use past drilling results in those areas to help predict our future drilling results. As a result, our cost of drilling, completing and operating wells in these areas may be higher than initially expected, and the value of our undeveloped acreage will decline if drilling results are unsuccessful. 25 Table of Contents We are subject to complex federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting our operations or expose us to significant liabilities. Our crude oil and natural gas exploration and production operations are subject to complex and stringent laws and regulations. In order to conduct our operations in compliance with these laws and regulations, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits, approvals and certificates from various federal, state and local governmental authorities. We may incur substantial costs in order to maintain compliance with these existing laws and regulations. In addition, our costs of compliance may increase if existing laws and regulations are revised or reinterpreted, or if new laws and regulations become applicable to our operations. Such costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations as interpreted and enforced by governmental authorities possessing jurisdiction over various aspects of the exploration for, and the production and transportation of, crude oil and natural gas. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations, as interpreted and enforced, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See Item 1. Business—Regulation of the Crude Oil and Natural Gas Industry for a description of the laws and regulations that affect us. Strict, joint and several liabilities may be imposed under certain environmental laws, which could cause us to become liable for the conduct of others or for consequences of our own actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. In addition, claims for damages to persons or property, including natural resources, may result from our operations. New laws, regulations or enforcement policies could be more stringent and impose unforeseen liabilities or significantly increase compliance costs. If we are not able to recover the resulting costs through insurance or increased revenues, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Climate change legislation or regulations governing the emissions of “greenhouse gases” could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the crude oil, natural gas and NGLs that we produce. On December 15, 2009, the EPA published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other “greenhouse gases” present an endangerment to human health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the Earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. These findings by the EPA have allowed the agency to implement regulations that restrict emissions of greenhouse gases under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. In April 2010, the EPA finalized regulations that will require a reduction in emissions of greenhouse gases from motor vehicles beginning in 2011. In May 2010, the EPA finalized its “tailoring rule”, which sets forth criteria for determining which stationary sources are required to obtain permits to construct, modify or operate on account of, and to implement the best available control technology for, their greenhouse gas emissions pursuant to the Clean Air Act Prevention of Significant Deterioration and Title V operating permit programs. Under the tailoring rule, permitting requirements will be phased in through successive steps that expand the scope of covered sources over time. In September 2009, the EPA finalized a rule that requires reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from specified large sources in the United States for emissions occurring in the prior calendar year. In November 2010, the EPA finalized its greenhouse gas reporting requirements for certain oil and gas production facilities that emit 25,000 metric tons or more of carbon dioxide equivalent per year. This rule became effective on December 30, 2010 and requires reporting of greenhouse gas emissions to the EPA by March 2012 for emissions during 2011, and annually thereafter. Some of our facilities may be subject to the reporting rules for the oil and gas industry, and may also be covered by subsequent phases of the tailoring rule or other rulemakings. Legislation has been proposed in both the U.S. House of Representatives and Senate that would establish a cap-and-trade program to reduce U.S. emissions of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide and methane. Under these proposals, the EPA would issue or sell a capped and steadily declining number of tradable emissions allowances to certain major sources of greenhouse gas emissions so that such sources could continue to emit greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. These allowances would be expected to escalate significantly in cost over time. The net effect of such legislation, if adopted, would be to impose increasing costs on the combustion of carbon-based fuels such as crude oil, refined petroleum products, and natural gas. The Obama Administration has indicated its support of legislation to reduce greenhouse gas emissions through an emission allowance system. Although it is not possible at this time to predict when or if Congress may act on climate change legislation, any future federal laws or implementing regulations that may be adopted to address greenhouse gas emissions could require us to incur increased operating costs. Even if such legislation is not adopted at the national level, more than one-third of the states, either individually or as part of regional initiatives, have begun taking actions to control and/or reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, as have a number of local governments. 26 Table of Contents Although most of the regional and state-level initiatives have to date been focused on large sources of greenhouse gas emissions, such as coal-fired electric power plants, smaller sources of emissions could become subject to greenhouse gas emission limitations, allowance purchase requirements or other restrictions or costs. Any one of these federal, regional, state or local climate change regulatory or legislative initiatives, or related litigation (including pending common law nuisance suits against various companies relating to greenhouse gases), could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These laws and regulations could also adversely affect demand for the crude oil, natural gas and NGLs we produce, including by increasing their cost. In addition, these laws and regulations could drive down demand for our products by stimulating demand for alternative forms of energy that do not rely on combustion of fossil fuels (such as oil, natural gas and NGLs), which is a major source of greenhouse gas emissions. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases in the Earth’s atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, and floods and other climatic events. If any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our assets and operations. Federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays and inability to book future reserves. Legislation has been proposed in Congress to amend the federal Safe Drinking Water Act to require the disclosure of chemicals used by the oil and natural gas industry in the hydraulic fracturing process. Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into rock formations to stimulate oil and natural gas production. We engage third parties to provide hydraulic fracturing or other well stimulation services to us in connection with several wells or proposed wells for which we are the operator. Sponsors of bills currently pending in Congress have asserted that chemicals used in the fracturing process may be adversely impacting drinking water supplies. The proposed legislation would require the reporting and public disclosure of chemicals used in the fracturing process, which could make it easier for third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings based on allegations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process are impairing groundwater or causing other damage. These bills, if adopted, could establish an additional level of regulation at the federal or state level that could prohibit hydraulic fracturing or could lead to operational delays or increased operating costs and could result in additional regulatory burdens that could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing and increase our costs of compliance and doing business. Certain states and other agencies have adopted or are considering similar disclosure legislation, moratoria or enforcement initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing. These legislative and regulatory initiatives, to the extent they are adopted or continue, could prohibit or limit our ability to develop our crude oil and natural gas properties located in unconventional formations, which would adversely affect our ability to access, develop and book reserves in the future. In March 2010, the United States Environmental Protection Agency announced that it would conduct a wide-ranging study on the effects of hydraulic fracturing on human health and the environment. The agency also announced that one of its enforcement initiatives for 2011 to 2013 would be to focus on environmental compliance by the energy extraction sector, and has already commenced one potential enforcement matter in Texas. This study and enforcement initiative could result in additional regulatory scrutiny that could make it difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing and increase our costs of compliance and doing business. Should we fail to comply with all applicable FERC administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines. The FERC, under the EPAct 2005, and the FTC, under the Independence and Security Act of 2007, may impose penalties for current violations of anti-market manipulation rules for natural gas, crude oil and petroleum products of up to $1,000,000 per day for each violation. While our systems have not been regulated by the FERC as a natural gas company under the NGA, the FERC has adopted regulations that may subject certain of our otherwise non-FERC jurisdictional facilities to the FERC annual reporting and daily scheduled flow and capacity posting requirements. Additional rules and legislation pertaining to those and other matters may be considered or adopted by the FERC from time to time. The FTC has also adopted anti-market manipulation rules that apply to our sales and trading of crude oil and petroleum products. Failure to comply with any of these regulations in the future could subject us to civil penalty liability, as well as the disgorgement of profits and third-party claims. Competition in the crude oil and natural gas industry is intense, making it more difficult for us to acquire properties, market crude oil and natural gas and secure trained personnel. Our ability to acquire additional prospects and to find and develop reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment for acquiring properties, marketing crude oil and natural gas and securing trained personnel. Also, there is substantial competition for capital available for investment in the crude oil and natural gas industry. Many of our competitors possess and employ financial, technical and personnel resources substantially greater than ours. 27 Table of Contents Those companies may be able to pay more for productive crude oil and natural gas properties and exploratory prospects and to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or personnel resources permit. In addition, companies may be able to offer better compensation packages to attract and retain qualified personnel than we are able to offer. The cost to attract and retain qualified personnel has increased in recent years due to competition and may increase substantially in the future. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring prospective reserves, developing reserves, marketing hydrocarbons, attracting and retaining quality personnel and raising additional capital, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The loss of senior management or technical personnel could adversely affect our operations. We depend on the services of our senior management and technical personnel. The loss of the services of our senior management or technical personnel, including Harold G. Hamm, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We do not maintain, nor do we plan to obtain, any insurance against the loss of any of these individuals. Seasonal weather conditions and lease stipulations adversely affect our ability to conduct drilling activities in some of the areas where we operate. Crude oil and natural gas operations in the North region are adversely affected by seasonal weather conditions and lease stipulations designed to protect various wildlife. In certain areas, including parts of Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota, Colorado and Wyoming, drilling and other crude oil and natural gas activities can only be conducted during the spring and summer months. This limits our ability to operate in those areas and can intensify competition during those months for drilling rigs, oilfield equipment, services, supplies and qualified personnel, which may lead to periodic shortages. These constraints and the resulting shortages or high costs could delay our operations and materially increase our operating and capital costs. We have limited control over the activities on properties we do not operate. Some of the properties in which we have an interest are operated by other companies and involve third-party working interest owners. As a result, we have limited ability to influence or control the operation or future development of such properties, including compliance with environmental, safety and other regulations, or the amount of capital expenditures that we will be required to fund with respect to such properties. Moreover, we are dependent on the other working interest owners of such projects to fund their contractual share of the capital expenditures of such projects. These limitations and our dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects could cause us to incur unexpected future costs and materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our revolving credit facility and the indentures for our senior notes contain certain covenants and restrictions that may inhibit our ability to make certain investments, incur additional indebtedness and engage in certain other transactions, which could adversely affect our ability to meet our future goals. Our revolving credit facility and the indentures for our senior notes include certain covenants and restrictions that, among other things, restrict: • our investments, loans and advances and the paying of dividends and other restricted payments; • our incurrence of additional indebtedness; • the granting of liens, other than liens created pursuant to the revolving credit facility and certain permitted liens; • mergers, consolidations and sales of all or a substantial part of our business or properties; • the hedging, forward sale or swap of our production of crude oil or natural gas or other commodities; • the sale of assets. The indentures for our outstanding senior notes limit our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to: • incur, assume or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue redeemable stock; • pay dividends on stock, repurchase stock or redeem subordinated debt; • make certain investments; • enter into certain transactions with affiliates; • create certain liens on our assets; • sell or otherwise dispose of certain assets, including capital stock of subsidiaries; 28 Table of Contents • restrict dividends, loans or other asset transfers from our restricted subsidiaries; • enter into new lines of business; and • consolidate with or merge with or into, or sell all or substantially all of our properties to another person. Our revolving credit facility also requires us to maintain certain financial ratios, such as leverage ratios. The restrictive covenants in our revolving credit facility and the senior note indentures may restrict our ability to expand or pursue our business strategies. Our ability to comply with these and other provisions of our revolving credit facility or senior note indentures may be impacted by changes in economic or business conditions, results of operations or events beyond our control. The breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our revolving credit facility or senior note indentures, in which case, depending on the actions taken by the lenders or trustee thereunder or their successors or assignees, such lenders or trustees could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder, together with accrued interest, to be due and payable. If we were unable to repay such borrowings or interest under our revolving credit facility, our lenders could proceed against their collateral. If the indebtedness under our revolving credit facility were to be accelerated, our assets may not be sufficient to repay in full such indebtedness. Increases in interest rates could adversely affect our business. Our business and operating results can be harmed by factors such as the availability, terms of and cost of capital, increases in interest rates or a reduction in credit ratings. These changes could cause our cost of doing business to increase, limit our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities, reduce cash flows used for drilling and place us at a competitive disadvantage. For example, as of February 18, 2011, outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility were $95.0 million and the impact of a 1% increase in interest rates on this amount of debt would result in increased annual interest expense of approximately $1.0 million and a $0.6 million decrease in our annual net income. We require continued access to capital. A significant reduction in cash flows from operations or the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect our ability to achieve our planned growth and operating results. Volatility in the financial markets or in macro-economic factors could adversely impact our business and financial condition. We may not be able to obtain funding in the capital markets on terms we find acceptable, or obtain funding under our current revolving credit facility because of a deterioration of the capital and credit markets and our borrowing base. Volatility in U.S. and global financial and equity markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity, and interest rate volatility, may increase our cost of financing. Further, economic uncertainty could reduce the demand for crude oil and natural gas and put downward pressure on the prices for crude oil and natural gas, which would negatively impact our revenues and cash flows. Historically, we have used our cash flows from operations, borrowings under our revolving credit facility and capital market transactions to fund our capital expenditures. We have an existing revolving credit facility with lender commitments totaling $750 million. In the future, we may not be able to access adequate funding under our bank credit facilities as a result of (i) a decrease in our borrowing base due to the outcome of a subsequent borrowing base redetermination, which is solely at the discretion of our lenders, or (ii) an unwillingness or inability on the part of our lending counterparties to meet their funding obligations. Declines in commodity prices could result in a determination to lower our borrowing base in the future and, in such case, we could be required to repay any indebtedness in excess of the borrowing base. Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that funding, if needed, will be available to the extent required and on terms we find acceptable. If we are unable to access funding when needed on acceptable terms, we may not be able to fully implement our business plans, complete new property acquisitions to replace our reserves, take advantage of business opportunities, respond to competitive pressures, or refinance our debt obligations as they come due, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The inability of our significant customers to meet their obligations to us may adversely affect our financial results. Our principal exposures to credit risk are through joint interest receivables ($269.5 million at December 31, 2010) and the sale of our crude oil and natural gas production ($213.3 million in receivables at December 31, 2010), which we market to energy marketing companies, refineries and affiliates. Joint interest receivables arise from billing entities who own partial interest in the wells we operate. These entities participate in our wells primarily based on their ownership in leases on which we wish to drill. We can do very little to choose who participates in our wells. We are also subject to credit risk due to concentration of our crude oil and natural gas receivables with several significant customers. The largest purchaser of our crude oil and natural gas during the year ended December 31, 2010 accounted for 57% of our total revenues. We generally do not require our customers to post collateral. The inability or failure of our significant customers to meet their obligations to us or their insolvency or liquidation may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 29 Table of Contents Our derivative activities could result in financial losses or could reduce our earnings. To achieve a more predictable cash flow and to reduce our exposure to adverse fluctuations in the prices of crude oil and natural gas, we enter into derivative instruments for a portion of our crude oil and/or natural gas production, including collars and fixed price swaps. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Crude Oil and Natural Gas Hedging and Item 8. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Note 5. Derivative Instruments for a summary of our crude oil and natural gas commodity derivative positions. We did not designate any of our derivative instruments as hedges for accounting purposes and we record all derivative instruments on our balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the fair value of our derivative instruments are recognized in current earnings. Accordingly, our earnings may fluctuate significantly as a result of changes in the fair value of our derivative instruments. Derivative instruments expose us to the risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when: • production is less than the volume covered by the derivative instruments; • the counter-party to the derivative instrument defaults on its contractual obligations; or • there is an increase in the differential between the underlying price in the derivative instrument and actual prices received. In addition, our derivative arrangements limit the benefit we would receive from increases in the prices for crude oil and natural gas. Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer owns approximately 72.6% of our outstanding common stock, giving him influence and control in corporate transactions and other matters, including a sale of our Company. As of February 18, 2011, Harold G. Hamm, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owned 123,753,708 shares of our outstanding common stock representing approximately 72.6% of our outstanding common shares. As a result, Mr. Hamm is our controlling shareholder and will continue to be able to control the election of our directors, determine our corporate and management policies and determine, without the consent of our other shareholders, the outcome of certain corporate transactions or other matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including potential mergers or acquisitions, asset sales and other significant corporate transactions. As controlling shareholder, Mr. Hamm could cause, delay or prevent a change of control of our Company. The interests of Mr. Hamm may not coincide with the interests of other holders of our common stock. Several affiliated companies controlled by Mr. Hamm provide oilfield, gathering and processing, marketing and other services to us. We expect these transactions will continue in the future and may result in conflicts of interest between Mr. Hamm’s affiliated companies and us. We can provide no assurance that any such conflicts will be resolved in our favor. Proposed legislation under consideration by Congress could increase our operating costs, reduce our liquidity, delay our operations or otherwise alter the way we conduct our business. Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations. Changes to existing laws or regulations or new laws or regulations may unfavorably impact us and could result in increased operating costs and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For example, Congress is considering legislation that, if adopted in its current proposed form, would subject companies involved in crude oil and natural gas exploration and production activities to substantial additional regulation. If such legislation is adopted, it could result in, among other items, additional regulation of and restrictions on hydraulic fracturing of wells, and additional regulation of private energy commodity derivative and hedging activities. These and other potential laws and regulations could increase our operating costs, reduce our liquidity, delay our operations or otherwise alter the way we conduct our business, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Certain federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. Among the changes contained in President Obama’s fiscal year 2012 budget proposal, released by the White House on February 14, 2011, is the elimination or deferral of certain key U.S. federal income tax deductions currently available to oil and gas exploration and production companies. Such proposed changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and gas properties; (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs; (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain U.S. production activities; and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. Recently, members of the U.S. Congress have considered similar changes to the existing federal income tax laws that affect oil and gas 30 Table of Contents exploration and production companies, which, if enacted, would negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. The passage of any legislation as a result of the budget proposal or any other similar change in U.S. federal income tax law could eliminate or defer certain tax deductions within the industry that are currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development, and any such change could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Potential regulations under the Dodd-Frank Act regarding derivatives could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price risk and other risks associated with our business. We use derivative instruments to manage our commodity price risk. In 2010, Congress adopted the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (HR 4173), which, among other provisions, establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as us, that participate in that market. The new legislation was signed into law by President Obama on July 21, 2010 and requires the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (the “CFTC”) and the SEC to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the new legislation within 360 days from the date of enactment. The CFTC has also proposed regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets, although it is not possible at this time to predict whether or when the CFTC will adopt those rules or include comparable provisions in its rulemaking under the new legislation. The financial reform legislation may also require us to comply with margin requirements and with certain clearing and trade-execution requirements in connection with our derivative activities, although the application of those provisions to us is uncertain at this time. The financial reform legislation may also require the counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty. The new legislation and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral, which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure existing derivative contracts, and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable. Finally, the legislation was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of crude oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to crude oil and natural gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the legislation and regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. We may be subject to risks in connection with acquisitions. The successful acquisition of producing properties requires an assessment of several factors, including: • recoverable reserves; • future crude oil and natural gas prices and their appropriate differentials; • future development costs, operating costs and property taxes; and • potential environmental and other liabilities. The accuracy of these assessments is inherently uncertain. In connection with these assessments, we perform a review of the subject properties that we believe to be generally consistent with industry practices. Our review will not reveal all existing or potential problems nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and capabilities. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Even when problems are identified, the seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection against all or part of the problems. We often are not entitled to contractual indemnification for environmental liabilities and acquire properties on an “as is” basis. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There were no unresolved Securities and Exchange Commission staff comments at December 31, 2010. 