Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider each of the risks described below, together with all other information contained in this report, before deciding to invest in shares of our common stock. If any of the following risks develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected, the trading price of your shares could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. We are subject to certain risks and hazards due to the nature of the business activities we conduct. The risks discussed below, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, and results of operations, are not the only risks we face. We may experience additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or, as a result of developments occurring in the future, conditions that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, and results of operations. A substantial or extended decline in crude oil and natural gas prices may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations and our ability to meet our capital expenditure needs and financial commitments. The price we receive for our crude oil and natural gas production heavily influences our revenue, profitability, access to capital and future rate of growth. Crude oil and natural gas are commodities and, therefore, their prices are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand. Historically, the 28 Table of Contents markets for crude oil and natural gas have been volatile. These markets will likely continue to be volatile in the future. The prices we receive for our production, and the levels of our production, depend on numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: • worldwide and regional economic conditions impacting the global supply and demand for crude oil and natural gas; • the actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries; • the price and quantity of imports of foreign crude oil and natural gas; • political conditions in or affecting other crude oil-producing and natural gas-producing countries; • the level of national and global crude oil and natural gas exploration and production; • the level of national and global crude oil and natural gas inventories; • localized supply and demand fundamentals and transportation availability; • changes in supply, demand, and refinery capacity for various grades of crude oil; • weather conditions; • technological advances affecting energy consumption; and • the price and availability of alternative fuels. Lower crude oil and natural gas prices could reduce our cash flows available for capital expenditures, repayment of indebtedness and other corporate purposes; result in a decrease in the borrowing base under our revolving credit facility or otherwise limit our ability to borrow money or raise additional capital; and reduce the amount of crude oil and natural gas we can economically produce. Substantial, extended decreases in crude oil and natural gas prices would render uneconomic a significant portion of our exploration, development and exploitation projects. This may result in significant downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves. As a result, a substantial or extended decline in crude oil or natural gas prices would materially and adversely affect our future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or ability to finance planned capital expenditures. A substantial portion of our producing properties are located in the North region, making us vulnerable to risks associated with having operations concentrated in this geographic area. Because our operations are geographically concentrated in the North region (78% of our production in the fourth quarter of 2012 was from the North region), the success and profitability of our operations may be disproportionally exposed to the effect of regional events. These include, among others, fluctuations in the prices of crude oil and natural gas produced from wells in the region and other regional supply and demand factors, including gathering, pipeline and rail transportation capacity constraints, available rigs, equipment, oil field services, supplies, labor and infrastructure capacity. In addition, our operations in the North region may be adversely affected by seasonal weather and lease stipulations designed to protect wildlife, which can intensify competition for the items described above during months when drilling is possible and may result in periodic shortages. The concentration of our operations in the North region also increases exposure to unexpected events that may occur in this region such as natural disasters or labor difficulties. Any one of these events has the potential to cause producing wells to be shut-in, delay operations and growth plans, decrease cash flows, increase operating and capital costs and prevent development of lease inventory before expiration. Any of the risks described above could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 29 Table of Contents Volatility in the financial markets or in global economic factors could adversely impact our business and financial condition. The economic recession experienced in 2008-2009 led to turmoil in U.S. and global economies that was characterized by extreme volatility and declines in prices of securities, diminished liquidity and credit availability, inability to access capital markets, the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of financial institutions, increased levels of unemployment, and an unprecedented level of intervention by the U.S. federal government and other governments. Improvements have occurred since 2008-2009 and some portions of the economy have stabilized and are showing signs of recovery. However, U.S. and global economies remain fragile and are still experiencing high unemployment, unstable consumer confidence and diminished consumer spending. Recent data has suggested the U.S. economy may be contracting again. Accordingly, although the economic recession experienced in recent years has ended, the extent and timing of the current recovery, and whether it can be sustained are uncertain. Economic weakness or uncertainty could reduce demand for crude oil and natural gas and put downward pressure on the prices of crude oil and natural gas. This would negatively impact our revenues, margins, profitability, operating cash flows, liquidity and financial condition. Such weakness or uncertainty could also cause our commodity hedging arrangements to become economically ineffective if our counterparties are unable to perform their obligations or seek bankruptcy protection. Furthermore, our ability to collect receivables may be adversely impacted. Historically, we have used cash flows from operations, borrowings under our revolving credit facility and capital market transactions to fund capital expenditures. Volatility in U.S. and global financial and equity markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity, and interest rate volatility, may increase our cost of financing. We have an existing revolving credit facility with lender commitments totaling $1.5 billion and a borrowing base of $3.25 billion as of February 15, 2013. In the future, we may not be able to access adequate funding under our credit facility as a result of (i) a decrease in our borrowing base due to the outcome of a subsequent borrowing base redetermination, which is solely at the discretion of our lenders, or (ii) an unwillingness or inability on the part of our lending counterparties to meet their funding obligations or increase their commitments to the borrowing base amount. Declines in commodity prices could result in a determination to lower our borrowing base in the future and, in such case, we could be required to repay indebtedness in excess of the borrowing base. Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that funding, if needed, will be available to the extent required and on terms we find acceptable. If we are unable to access funding when needed on acceptable terms, we may not be able to fully implement our business plans, complete new property acquisitions to replace reserves, take advantage of business opportunities, respond to competitive pressures, or refinance debt obligations as they come due. Should any of the above risks occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our exploration, development and exploitation projects require substantial capital expenditures. We may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on acceptable terms, which could lead to a decline in our crude oil and natural gas reserves and production. The crude oil and natural gas industry is capital intensive. We make and expect to continue to make substantial capital expenditures in our business for the exploration, development, exploitation, production and acquisition of crude oil and natural gas reserves. In 2012, we invested approximately $4.4 billion in our capital program, inclusive of property acquisitions. In October 2012, we announced a new five-year growth plan to triple our production and proved reserves from year-end 2012 to year-end 2017. Our capital expenditures for 2013 are budgeted to be $3.6 billion, excluding acquisitions which are not budgeted, with $3.3 billion allocated for drilling, capital workovers and facilities. To date, our capital expenditures have been financed with cash generated by operations, borrowings under our revolving credit facility and the issuance of debt and equity securities. The actual amount and timing of future capital expenditures may differ materially from our estimates as a result of, among others, commodity prices, available cash flows, unbudgeted acquisitions, actual drilling results, the availability of drilling rigs and other services and equipment, the availability of transportation 30 Table of Contents capacity, and regulatory, technological and competitive developments. Improvement in commodity prices may result in an increase in actual capital expenditures. Conversely, a significant decline in commodity prices could result in a decrease in actual capital expenditures. We intend to finance future capital expenditures primarily through cash flows from operations and borrowings under our revolving credit facility; however, our financing needs may require us to alter or increase our capitalization substantially through the issuance of debt or equity securities or the sale of assets. The issuance of additional debt requires a portion of our cash flows from operations be used for the payment of interest and principal on our debt, thereby reducing our ability to use cash flows to fund working capital needs, capital expenditures and acquisitions. The issuance of additional equity securities could have a dilutive effect on the value of our common stock. Our cash flows from operations and access to capital are subject to a number of variables, including: • the amount of our proved reserves; • the volume of crude oil and natural gas we are able to produce and sell from existing wells; • the prices at which crude oil and natural gas are sold; • our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves; and • the ability and willingness of our banks to extend credit. If revenues or the borrowing base under our revolving credit facility decrease as a result of lower crude oil or natural gas prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations at current levels. If additional capital is needed, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing. If cash generated by operations or cash available under our revolving credit facility is not sufficient to meet capital requirements, the failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of operations relating to development of our prospects, which in turn could lead to a decline in our crude oil and natural gas reserves and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to achieve our growth plan. Drilling for and producing crude oil and natural gas are high risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our future financial condition and results of operations will depend on the success of our exploration, development and production activities. Our crude oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to numerous risks beyond our control, including the risk that drilling will not result in commercially viable crude oil or natural gas production. Our decisions to purchase, explore, develop or otherwise exploit prospects or properties will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data, and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. Our cost of drilling, completing and operating wells may be uncertain before drilling commences. Risks we face while drilling include, but are not limited to, failing to place our well bore in the desired target producing zone; not staying in the desired drilling zone while drilling horizontally through the formation; failing to run our casing the entire length of the well bore; and not being able to run tools and other equipment consistently through the horizontal well bore. Risks we face while completing our wells include, but are not limited to, not being able to fracture stimulate the planned number of stages; failing to run tools the entire length of the well bore during completion operations; and not successfully cleaning out the well bore after completion of the final fracture stimulation stage. Further, many factors may curtail, delay or cancel scheduled drilling projects, including: • abnormal pressure or irregularities in geological formations; • shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment and qualified personnel; 31 Table of Contents • mechanical difficulties, fires, explosions, ruptures of pipelines, equipment failures or accidents; • adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, such as flooding, blizzards and ice storms; • political events, public protests, civil disturbances, terrorist acts or cyber attacks; • reductions in crude oil and natural gas prices; • limited availability of financing with acceptable terms; • title problems; • environmental hazards, such as uncontrollable flows of crude oil, natural gas, brine, well fluids, hydraulic fracturing fluids, toxic gas or other pollutants into the environment, including groundwater and shoreline contamination; • spillage or mishandling of crude oil, natural gas, brine, well fluids, hydraulic fracturing fluids, toxic gas or other pollutants by third party service providers; • limitations in infrastructure, including transportation capacity or the market for crude oil and natural gas; and • delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with regulatory requirements. Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. The process of estimating crude oil and natural gas reserves is complex. It requires interpretation of available technical data and many assumptions, including assumptions relating to current and future economic conditions and commodity prices. Any significant inaccuracy in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect our estimated quantities and present value of our reserves. See Part I, Item 1. Business—Crude Oil and Natural Gas Operations, Proved Reserves for information about our estimated crude oil and natural gas reserves, PV-10, and Standardized Measure of discounted future net cash flows as of December 31, 2012. In order to prepare estimates, we must project production rates and the amount and timing of development expenditures. We must also analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires economic assumptions, based on historical data but projected into the future, about matters such as crude oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. Actual future production, crude oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable crude oil and natural gas reserves will vary from our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of our reserves. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing crude oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. The present value of future net revenues from our proved reserves will not necessarily be the same as the current market value of our estimated crude oil and natural gas reserves. You should not assume the present value of future net revenues from our proved reserves is the current market value of our estimated crude oil and natural gas reserves. In accordance with SEC rules, we base the estimated discounted future net revenues from proved reserves on the 12-month unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month commodity prices for the preceding twelve months. Actual future net revenues from crude oil and natural gas properties will be affected by factors such as: • the actual cost and timing of development and production expenditures; • the amount and timing of actual production; 32 Table of Contents • the actual prices we receive for sales of crude oil and natural gas; and • changes in governmental regulations or taxation. The timing of both our production and our incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of crude oil and natural gas properties will affect the timing and amount of actual future net revenues from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net revenues may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with our reserves or the crude oil and natural gas industry in general. Actual future prices and costs may materially differ from those used in our estimate of the present value of future net revenues. If crude oil prices decline by $10.00 per barrel, our PV-10 as of December 31, 2012 would decrease approximately $2.1 billion. If natural gas prices decline by $1.00 per Mcf, our PV-10 as of December 31, 2012 would decrease approximately $819 million. Our use of enhanced recovery methods creates uncertainties that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. One of our business strategies is to commercially develop unconventional crude oil and natural gas resource plays using enhanced recovery technologies. For example, we inject water and high-pressure air into formations on some of our properties to increase the production of crude oil and natural gas. The additional production and reserves attributable to the use of these enhanced recovery methods are inherently difficult to predict. If enhanced recovery programs do not allow for the extraction of crude oil and natural gas in the manner or to the extent we anticipate, our future results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. If crude oil and natural gas prices decrease, we may be required to write down the carrying values of our crude oil and natural gas properties. Accounting rules require that we periodically review the carrying values of our crude oil and natural gas properties for possible impairment. Based on specific market factors and circumstances at the time of prospective impairment reviews, and the continuing evaluation of development plans, production data, economics and other factors, we may be required to write down the carrying values of our crude oil and natural gas properties. A write-down constitutes a non-cash charge to earnings. We may incur impairment charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the periods in which such charges are taken. Unless we replace our crude oil and natural gas reserves, our reserves and production will decline, which could adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. Unless we conduct successful exploration, development and exploitation activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, our proved reserves will decline as those reserves are produced. Producing crude oil and natural gas reservoirs are generally characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Our future crude oil and natural gas reserves and production, and therefore our cash flows and results of operations, are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. We may not be able to develop, find or acquire sufficient additional reserves to replace our current and future production. If we are unable to replace our current and future production, the value of our reserves will decrease, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 33 Table of Contents The unavailability or high cost of additional drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oilfield services could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans within budget and on a timely basis. Shortages or the high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel or oilfield services could delay or cause us to incur significant expenditures not provided for in our capital budget, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may incur substantial losses and be subject to substantial liability claims as a result of our crude oil and natural gas operations. Additionally, we may not be insured for, or our insurance may be inadequate to protect us against, these risks. We are not insured against all risks. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured and underinsured events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our crude oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to all of the operating risks associated with drilling for and producing crude oil and natural gas, including the possibility of: • environmental hazards, such as uncontrollable flows of crude oil, natural gas, brine, well fluids, hydraulic fracturing fluids, toxic gas or other pollutants into the environment, including groundwater and shoreline contamination; • abnormally pressured formations; • mechanical difficulties, such as stuck oilfield drilling and service tools and casing collapse; • fires, explosions and ruptures of pipelines; • personal injuries and death; • natural disasters; and • spillage or mishandling of crude oil, natural gas, brine, well fluids, hydraulic fracturing fluids, toxic gas or other pollutants by third party service providers. Any of these risks could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations or result in substantial losses to us as a result of: • injury or loss of life; • damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; • pollution and other environmental damage; • regulatory investigations and penalties; • suspension of our operations; and • repair and remediation costs. We may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Prospects we decide to drill may not yield crude oil or natural gas in economically producible quantities. Prospects we decide to drill that do not yield crude oil or natural gas in economically producible quantities may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In this report, we describe some of our current prospects and plans to explore those prospects. Our prospects are in various stages of evaluation, ranging from a 34 Table of Contents prospect which is ready to drill to a prospect that will require substantial additional seismic data processing and interpretation. It is not possible to predict with certainty in advance of drilling and testing whether any particular prospect will yield crude oil or natural gas in sufficient quantities to recover drilling or completion costs or be economically producible. The use of seismic data and other technologies and the study of producing fields in the same area will not enable us to know conclusively prior to drilling whether crude oil or natural gas will be present or, if present, whether crude oil or natural gas will be present in economically producible quantities. We cannot assure you that the analogies we draw from available data from other wells, more fully explored prospects or producing fields will be applicable to our drilling prospects. Our identified drilling locations are scheduled out over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling. Our management has specifically identified and scheduled drilling locations as an estimation of our future multi-year drilling activities on our existing acreage. These drilling locations represent a significant part of our growth strategy. Our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of uncertainties, including crude oil and natural gas prices, the availability of capital, costs, drilling results, regulatory approvals, available transportation capacity, and other factors. If future drilling results in these projects do not establish sufficient reserves to achieve an economic return, we may curtail drilling in these projects. Because of these uncertainties, we do not know if the numerous potential drilling locations we have identified will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce crude oil or natural gas from these or any other potential drilling locations. In addition, unless production is established within the spacing units covering the undeveloped acres on which some of the locations are identified, the leases for such acreage will expire. If we are not able to renew leases before they expire, any proved undeveloped reserves associated with such leases will be removed from our proved reserves. The combined net acreage expiring in the next three years represents 65% of our total net undeveloped acreage at December 31, 2012. At that date, we had leases representing 359,999 net acres expiring in 2013, 234,297 net acres expiring in 2014, and 279,486 net acres expiring in 2015. Our actual drilling activities may materially differ from those presently identified, which could adversely affect our business. Our business depends on crude oil and natural gas transportation facilities, most of which are owned by third parties, and on the availability of rail transportation The marketability of our crude oil and natural gas production depends in part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipeline and rail systems owned by third parties. The lack or unavailability of capacity on these systems and facilities could result in the shut-in of producing wells or the delay, or discontinuance of, development plans for properties. Although we have some contractual control over the transportation of our product, material changes in these business relationships could materially affect our operations. Federal and state regulation of crude oil and natural gas production and transportation, tax and energy policies, changes in supply and demand, pipeline pressures, damage to or destruction of pipelines and rail systems, labor disputes and general economic conditions could adversely affect our ability to produce, gather, transport and sell crude oil and natural gas. As a result of pipeline constraints, the continuous increase in Williston Basin production, and our desire to transport our crude oil to coastal markets which currently provide the most favorable pricing, in December 2012 we transported approximately 72% of our operated crude oil production from the Bakken field by rail. The disruption of third-party pipelines or rail transportation facilities due to labor disputes, maintenance and/or weather could negatively impact our ability to market and deliver our products and achieve the most favorable prices for our crude oil and natural gas production. We have no control over when or if access to such pipeline or rail facilities would be restored or what prices would be charged. A significant shut-in of production in connection with any of the aforementioned items could materially affect our cash flows, and if a substantial portion of the impacted production is hedged at lower than market prices, those financial hedges would have to be paid from borrowings absent sufficient cash flows. 35 Table of Contents We have been an early entrant into new or emerging plays. As a result, our drilling results in these areas are uncertain, and the value of our undeveloped acreage will decline if drilling results are unsuccessful. While our costs to acquire undeveloped acreage in new or emerging plays have generally been less than those of later entrants into a developing play, our drilling results in these areas are more uncertain than drilling results in developed and producing areas. Since new or emerging plays have limited or no production history, we are unable to use past drilling results in those areas to help predict our future drilling results. As a result, our cost of drilling, completing and operating wells in these areas may be higher than initially expected, and the value of our undeveloped acreage will decline if drilling results are unsuccessful. We are subject to complex federal, state and local laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting our operations or expose us to significant liabilities. Our crude oil and natural gas exploration and production operations are subject to complex and stringent laws and regulations. In order to conduct operations in compliance with these laws and regulations, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits, approvals and certificates from various federal, state and local governmental authorities. We may incur substantial costs in order to maintain compliance with these existing laws and regulations. In addition, our costs of compliance may increase if existing laws and regulations are revised or reinterpreted, or if new laws and regulations become applicable to our operations. Such costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations as interpreted and enforced by governmental authorities possessing jurisdiction over various aspects of the exploration for, and the production and transportation of, crude oil and natural gas. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations, as interpreted and enforced, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See Part I, Item 1. Business—Regulation of the Crude Oil and Natural Gas Industry for a description of the laws and regulations that affect us. Strict or joint and several liability may be imposed under certain laws, which could cause us to become liable for the conduct of others or for consequences of our own actions. In addition, claims for damages to persons or property, including natural resources, may result from our operations. New laws, regulations or enforcement policies could be more stringent and impose unforeseen liabilities or significantly increase compliance costs. If we are not able to recover the resulting costs through insurance or increased revenues, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Climate change legislation or regulations governing the emissions of “greenhouse gases” could result in increased operating costs and reduce demand for the crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids we produce. On December 15, 2009, the EPA published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases present an endangerment to human health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to the warming of the Earth’s atmosphere and other climate changes. These findings by the EPA allow the agency to proceed with the adoption and implementation of several regulations that would restrict emissions of greenhouse gases under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act, such as the so-called “tailoring rule” adopted in May 2010, which imposes permitting and best available control technology requirements on the largest greenhouse gas stationary sources. In November 2010, the EPA also finalized its greenhouse gas reporting requirements for certain oil and gas production facilities that emit 25,000 metric tons or more of carbon dioxide equivalent per year. The rule requires annual reporting to the EPA of greenhouse gas emissions by such regulated facilities. On April 17, 2012, the EPA issued final rules that established new air emission controls for crude oil and natural gas production and natural gas processing operations. These rules were published in the Federal Register on 36 Table of Contents August 16, 2012. The EPA’s rule package includes New Source Performance Standards to address emissions of sulfur dioxide and volatile organic compounds (“VOCs”) and a separate set of emission standards to address hazardous air pollutants frequently associated with crude oil and natural gas production and processing activities. The final rules require the use of reduced emission completions or “green completions” on all hydraulically-fractured wells completed or refractured after January 1, 2015 in order to achieve a 95 percent reduction in the emission of VOCs. The rules also establish specific new requirements regarding emissions from compressors, controllers, dehydrators, storage tanks and other production equipment. These rules may require modifications to our operations, including the installation of new equipment to control emissions from our wells by January 1, 2015. Compliance with such rules could result in significant costs, including increased capital expenditures and operating costs, and could adversely impact our business. In addition, the U.S. Congress has from time to time considered legislation to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, and almost half of the states, including states in which we operate, have enacted or passed measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, primarily through the planned development of greenhouse gas emission inventories and/or regional greenhouse gas cap-and-trade programs. Most of these cap-and-trade programs work by requiring either major sources of emissions or major producers of fuels to acquire and surrender emission allowances, with the number of allowances available for purchase reduced each year until the overall greenhouse gas emission reduction goal is achieved. These reductions may cause the cost of allowances to escalate significantly over time. The adoption and implementation of regulations that require reporting of greenhouse gases or otherwise limit emissions of greenhouse gases from our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to monitor and report on greenhouse gas emissions or reduce emissions of greenhouse gases associated with our operations. In addition, these regulatory initiatives could drive down demand for our products by stimulating demand for alternative forms of energy that do not rely on combustion of fossil fuels that serve as a major source of greenhouse gas emissions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Finally, it should be noted some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases in the Earth’s atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, floods and other climatic events. If any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our assets and operations. Federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays and inability to book future reserves. A significant majority of our operations utilize hydraulic fracturing, an important and commonly used process in the completion of crude oil and natural gas wells in low-permeability formations. Hydraulic fracturing involves the high-pressure injection of water, sand and additives into rock formations to stimulate crude oil and natural gas production. Some activists have attempted to link hydraulic fracturing to various environmental problems, including adverse effects to drinking water supplies as well as migration of methane and other hydrocarbons. As a result, several federal agencies are studying potential environmental risks with respect to hydraulic fracturing or evaluating whether to restrict its use. From time to time legislation has been introduced in the U.S. Congress to amend the federal Safe Drinking Water Act to eliminate an existing exemption for hydraulic fracturing activities from the definition of “underground injection,” thereby requiring the crude oil and natural gas industry to obtain permits for hydraulic fracturing, and to require disclosure of the additives used in the process. If ever adopted, such legislation could establish an additional level of regulation and permitting at the federal level. Scrutiny of hydraulic fracturing activities continues in other ways. The White House Council on Environmental Quality is coordinating an administration-wide review of hydraulic fracturing practices, and a number of federal agencies are analyzing environmental issues associated with hydraulic fracturing. The EPA has commenced a multi-year study of the potential environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing, the draft results of which are anticipated to be available by 2014. Further, on May 11, 2012, the BLM issued a proposed rule that would require public 37 Table of Contents disclosure of chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing operations, and impose other operational requirements for all hydraulic fracturing operations on federal lands, including Native American trust lands. The Department of the Interior announced on January 18, 2013 that BLM will issue a revised draft rule by March 31, 2013. At December 31, 2012, we held approximately 79,400 net undeveloped acres on federal land, representing approximately 6% of our total net undeveloped acres. In addition to these federal initiatives, several state and local governments, including states in which we operate, have moved to require disclosure of fracturing fluid components or to otherwise regulate their use more closely. In certain areas of the United States, new drilling permits for hydraulic fracturing have been put on hold pending development of additional standards. The adoption of any future federal, state or local law or implementing regulation imposing permitting or reporting obligations on, or otherwise limiting, the hydraulic fracturing process, or the discovery of groundwater contamination or other adverse environmental effects directly connected to hydraulic fracturing, could make it more difficult and more expensive to complete crude oil and natural gas wells in low-permeability formations and increase our costs of compliance and doing business, as well as delay, prevent or prohibit the development of natural resources from unconventional formations. In the event regulations are adopted that prohibit or significantly limit the use of hydraulic fracturing in states in which we operate, it would have a material adverse effect on our ability to economically find and develop crude oil and natural gas reserves in our strategic plays. The inability to achieve a satisfactory economic return could cause us to curtail or discontinue our exploration and development plans. Such a circumstance would have a material adverse effect on our business and would impair our ability to implement our growth plan. Should we fail to comply with FERC, FTC and CFTC administered statutes and regulations on market behavior, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines and other liabilities. The FERC, under the EPAct 2005, and the FTC, under the Independence and Security Act of 2007, may impose or seek to impose through judicial action penalties for violations of anti-market manipulation rules for natural gas, crude oil and petroleum products of up to $1,000,000 per day for each violation. The CFTC, under the Commodity Exchange Act, has similar authority to impose penalties of up to $1,000,000 or triple the monetary gain for violation of anti-market manipulation rules for certain derivative contracts. In addition, while we have not been regulated by the FERC as a natural gas company under the NGA, the FERC has adopted regulations that may subject us to the FERC annual reporting requirements. Additional rules and legislation pertaining to those and other matters may be considered or adopted by the FERC, the FTC or CFTC from time to time. Failure to comply with any of these regulations in the future could subject us to civil penalty liability, as well as the disgorgement of profits and third-party claims. Proposed legislation and regulation under consideration could increase our operating costs, reduce our liquidity, delay our operations or otherwise alter the way we conduct our business. Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations. Changes to existing laws or regulations, new laws or regulations, or changes in interpretations of laws and regulations may unfavorably impact us or the infrastructure used for transporting our products. Similarly, changes in regulatory policies and priorities could result in the imposition of new obligations upon us, such as increased reporting or audits. Any of these requirements could result in increased operating costs and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If such legislation, regulation or other requirements are adopted, they could result in, among other items, additional limitations and restrictions on hydraulic fracturing of wells, changes to the calculation of royalty payments, new safety requirements, and additional regulation of private energy commodity derivative and hedging activities. These and other potential laws, regulations and other requirements could increase our operating costs, reduce liquidity, delay operations or otherwise alter the way we conduct our business. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 38 Table of Contents Certain federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to crude oil and natural gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. Among the changes contained in President Obama’s fiscal year 2013 budget proposal are the elimination or deferral of certain key U.S. federal income tax deductions currently available to crude oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. Such proposed changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for crude oil and gas properties; (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs; (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain production activities; and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. These proposed changes, if enacted, may negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. The passage of legislation in response to President Obama’s 2013 budget proposal or any other similar change in U.S. federal income tax law could eliminate or defer certain tax deductions within the industry that are currently available with respect to crude oil and natural gas exploration and development, and any such change could negatively affect our cash flows available for capital expenditures and our ability to achieve our growth plan. Regulations under the Dodd-Frank Act regarding derivatives could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price risk and other risks associated with our business. We use derivative instruments to manage our commodity price risk. In 2010, the U.S. Congress adopted the Dodd-Frank Act, which, among other provisions, establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as us, that participate in that market. This financial reform legislation includes provisions that require derivative transactions that are currently executed over-the-counter to be executed through an exchange and be centrally cleared. The new legislation was signed into law by President Obama on July 21, 2010 and requires the CFTC, the SEC, and in some cases banking regulators, to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the new legislation. The CFTC has issued final regulations to implement significant aspects of the legislation, including new rules for the registration of swap dealers and major swap participants (and related definitions of those terms), definitions of the term “swap,” rules to establish the ability to rely on the commercial end-user exception from the central clearing and exchange trading requirements, requirements for reporting and recordkeeping, rules on customer protection in the context of cleared swaps, and position limits for swaps and other transactions based on the price of certain reference contracts, some of which are referenced in our swap contracts. Key regulations that have not yet been finalized include those establishing margin requirements for uncleared swaps, regulatory capital requirements for swap dealers and various trade execution requirements. On December 13, 2012, the CFTC published final rules regarding mandatory clearing of certain interest rate swaps and certain index credit default swaps and setting compliance dates for different categories of market participants, the earliest of which is March 11, 2013. The CFTC has not yet proposed any rules requiring the clearing of any other classes of swaps, including physical commodity swaps. If we do not qualify for the end-user exception from the clearing requirement for our swaps, the mandatory clearing requirements and revised capital requirements applicable to other market participants, such as swap dealers, may change the cost and availability of the swaps we use for hedging. Some of the counterparties to our derivative instruments may also need or choose to spin off some of their derivatives activities to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as our current counterparty. The new legislation and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral, which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure existing derivative contracts, lead to fewer potential counterparties, impose new recordkeeping and documentation requirements, and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable. Finally, the legislation was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of crude oil and natural gas prices, which some 39 Table of Contents legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to crude oil and natural gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the legislation and regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Competition in the crude oil and natural gas industry is intense, making it more difficult for us to acquire properties, market crude oil and natural gas and secure trained personnel. Our ability to acquire additional prospects and to find and develop reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment for acquiring properties, marketing crude oil and natural gas and securing trained personnel. Also, there is substantial competition for capital available for investment in the crude oil and natural gas industry. Certain of our competitors may possess and employ financial, technical and personnel resources greater than ours. Those companies may be able to pay more for productive crude oil and natural gas properties and exploratory prospects and to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or personnel resources permit. In addition, companies may be able to offer better compensation packages to attract and retain qualified personnel than we are able to offer. The cost to attract and retain qualified personnel has increased in recent years due to competition and may increase substantially in the future. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring prospective reserves, developing reserves, marketing hydrocarbons, attracting and retaining quality personnel and raising additional capital, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The loss of senior management or technical personnel could adversely affect our operations. We depend on the services of our senior management and technical personnel. The loss of the services of our senior management or technical personnel, including Harold G. Hamm, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We do not maintain, nor do we plan to obtain, any insurance against the loss of any of these individuals. We have limited control over the activities on properties we do not operate. Some of the properties in which we have an interest are operated by other companies and involve third-party working interest owners. As of December 31, 2012, non-operated properties represented 18% of our estimated proved developed reserves, 13% of our estimated proved undeveloped reserves, and 15% of our estimated total proved reserves. We have limited ability to influence or control the operation or future development of such properties, including compliance with environmental, safety and other regulations, or the amount of capital expenditures required to fund such properties. Moreover, we are dependent on the other working interest owners of such projects to fund their contractual share of the capital expenditures of such projects. These limitations and our dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects could cause us to incur unexpected future costs and materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our revolving credit facility and the indentures for our senior notes contain certain covenants and restrictions that may inhibit our ability to make certain investments, incur additional indebtedness and engage in certain other transactions, which could adversely affect our ability to meet our future goals. Our revolving credit facility and the indentures for our senior notes include certain covenants and restrictions that, among others, restrict: • our investments, loans and advances and the paying of dividends and other restricted payments; • our incurrence of additional indebtedness; • the granting of liens, other than liens created pursuant to the revolving credit facility and certain permitted liens; 40 Table of Contents • mergers, consolidations and sales of all or a substantial part of our business or properties; • the hedging, forward sale or swap of our production of crude oil or natural gas or other commodities; and • the sale of assets. The indentures for our outstanding senior notes limit our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to: • incur, assume or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue redeemable stock; • pay dividends on stock, repurchase stock or redeem subordinated debt; • make certain investments; • enter into certain transactions with affiliates; • create certain liens on our assets; • sell or otherwise dispose of certain assets, including capital stock of subsidiaries; • restrict dividends, loans or other asset transfers from our restricted subsidiaries; • enter into new lines of business; and • consolidate with or merge with or into, or sell all or substantially all of our properties to another person. Our revolving credit facility also requires us to maintain certain financial ratios, such as leverage ratios. The restrictive covenants in our revolving credit facility and the senior note indentures may restrict our ability to expand or pursue our business strategies. Our ability to comply with these and other provisions of our revolving credit facility or senior note indentures may be impacted by changes in economic or business conditions, results of operations or events beyond our control. The breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our revolving credit facility or senior note indentures, in which case, depending on the actions taken by the lenders or trustees thereunder or their successors or assignees, such lenders or trustees could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder, together with accrued interest, to be due and payable. If we are unable to repay such borrowings or interest, our lenders could proceed against their collateral. If our indebtedness is accelerated, our assets may not be sufficient to repay in full such indebtedness. Increases in interest rates could adversely affect our business. Our business and operating results can be harmed by factors such as the availability, terms of and cost of capital, increases in interest rates or a reduction in credit ratings. These changes could cause our cost of doing business to increase, limit our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities, reduce cash flows used for drilling and place us at a competitive disadvantage. For example, as of February 15, 2013, outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility were $840 million and the impact of a 1% increase in interest rates on this amount of debt would result in increased annual interest expense of approximately $8.4 million and a $5.2 million decrease in our annual net income. We require continued access to capital. A significant reduction in cash flows from operations or the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect our ability to achieve our planned growth and operating results. The inability of our significant customers to meet their obligations to us may adversely affect our financial results. Our principal exposure to credit risk is through the sale of our crude oil and natural gas production, which we market to energy marketing companies, refineries and affiliates ($480.3 million in receivables at December 31, 2012), our joint interest receivables ($356.8 million at December 31, 2012), and counterparty credit risk 41 Table of Contents associated with our derivative instrument receivables ($50.6 million at December 31, 2012). Joint interest receivables arise from billing entities who own a partial interest in the wells we operate. These entities participate in our wells primarily based on their ownership in leases included in units on which we wish to drill. We can do very little to choose who participates in our wells. We are also subject to credit risk due to concentration of our crude oil and natural gas receivables with several significant customers. The largest purchaser of our crude oil and natural gas during the year ended December 31, 2012 accounted for approximately 21% of our total crude oil and natural gas revenues. We generally do not require our counterparties to provide collateral to support crude oil and natural gas sales receivables owed to us. Additionally, our use of derivative instruments involves the risk that our counterparties will be unable to meet their obligations under the arrangements. The inability or failure of our significant customers to meet their obligations to us or their insolvency or liquidation may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our derivative activities could result in financial losses or reduce our earnings. To achieve more predictable cash flows and reduce our exposure to adverse fluctuations in the prices of crude oil and natural gas, we enter into derivative instruments for a portion of our crude oil and/or natural gas production, including collars and fixed price swaps. See Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Crude Oil and Natural Gas Hedging and Part II, Item 8. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 5. Derivative Instruments for a summary of our crude oil and natural gas commodity derivative positions. We do not designate any of our derivative instruments as hedges for accounting purposes and we record all derivative instruments on our balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the fair value of our derivative instruments are recognized in current earnings. Accordingly, our earnings may fluctuate significantly as a result of changes in the fair value of our derivative instruments. Derivative instruments expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including when: • production is less than the volume covered by the derivative instruments; • the counterparty to the derivative instrument defaults on its contractual obligations; or • there is an increase in the differential between the underlying price in the derivative instrument and actual prices received. In addition, our derivative arrangements limit the benefit we would receive from increases in the prices for crude oil and natural gas. Our decision on the quantity and price at which we choose to hedge our future production is based in part on our view of current and future market conditions and our desire to stabilize cash flows necessary for the development of our undeveloped crude oil and natural gas reserves. As part of our risk management program, we have hedged a significant portion of our forecasted production. We utilize a combination of derivative contracts based on West Texas Intermediate (“WTI”) crude oil pricing, Inter-Continental Exchange (“ICE”) pricing for Brent crude oil, and Henry Hub pricing for natural gas. We believe our derivative contracts provide relevant protection from price fluctuations in the U.S. markets where we deliver and sell our production. The pricing for Brent crude oil is believed to be a better reflection of the sales prices realized in certain U.S. market centers. However, in the event Brent prices increase significantly, the prices realized in those U.S. market centers may no longer be reflective of Brent prices. In such a circumstance, we may incur significant realized cash losses upon settling our crude oil derivative instruments. Such losses may be incurred without seeing a corresponding increase in revenues from higher realized prices on our physical sales of crude oil. Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer owns approximately 68% of our outstanding common stock, giving him influence and control in corporate transactions and other matters, including a sale of our Company. As of December 31, 2012, Harold G. Hamm, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owned 126,296,891 shares of our outstanding common stock representing approximately 68% of our outstanding common shares. As a result, Mr. Hamm is our controlling shareholder and will continue to be able to control the 42 Table of Contents election of our directors, determine our corporate and management policies and determine, without the consent of our other shareholders, the outcome of certain corporate transactions or other matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including potential mergers or acquisitions, asset sales and other significant corporate transactions. As controlling shareholder, Mr. Hamm could cause, delay or prevent a change of control of our Company. The interests of Mr. Hamm may not coincide with the interests of other holders of our common stock. Several affiliated companies controlled by Mr. Hamm provide oilfield, gathering and processing, marketing and other services to us. We expect these transactions will continue in the future and may result in conflicts of interest between Mr. Hamm’s affiliated companies and us. We can provide no assurance that any such conflicts will be resolved in our favor. We may be subject to risks in connection with acquisitions. The successful acquisition of producing properties requires an assessment of several factors, including: • recoverable reserves; • future crude oil and natural gas prices and their differentials; • future development costs, operating costs and property taxes; and • potential environmental and other liabilities. The accuracy of these assessments is inherently uncertain. In connection with these assessments, we perform a review of the subject properties we believe to be generally consistent with industry practices. Our review will not reveal all existing or potential problems nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and capabilities prior to acquisition. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Even when problems are identified, the seller of the subject properties may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection against all or part of the problems. We often are not entitled to contractual indemnification for environmental liabilities and acquire properties on an “as is” basis. We may be subject to risks as a result of cyber attacks targeting systems and infrastructure used by the oil and gas industry. Computers control nearly all of the crude oil and natural gas production and distribution systems in the U.S. and abroad, some of which are utilized to transport our production to market. A cyber attack directed at crude oil and natural gas production and distribution systems could damage critical distribution and/or storage assets or the environment, delay or prevent delivery of production to markets and make it difficult or impossible to accurately account for production and settle transactions. The occurrence of such an attack against any of the aforementioned production and distribution systems could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There were no unresolved Securities and Exchange Commission staff comments at December 31, 2012. 