Item 1A. Risk Factors—Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. Our cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain before drilling commences. Further, many factors may curtail, delay or cancel our scheduled drilling projects, including the following: • delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with regulatory requirements; • pressure or irregularities in geological formations; 26 Table of Contents • shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment and qualified personnel; • equipment failures or accidents; • adverse weather conditions, such as blizzards and ice storms; • reductions in crude oil and natural gas prices; • limited availability of financing at acceptable rates; • title problems; and • limitations in the market for crude oil and natural gas. Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. The process of estimating crude oil and natural gas reserves is complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and many assumptions, including assumptions relating to current and future economic conditions and commodity prices. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect our estimated quantities and present value of our reserves. See Item 1. Business—Crude Oil and Natural Gas Operations, Proved Reserves for information about our estimated crude oil and natural gas reserves and the PV-10 and standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows as of December 31, 2009. In order to prepare our estimates, we must project production rates and timing of development expenditures. We must also analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires economic assumptions, based on historical data but projected into the future, about matters such as crude oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. Actual future production, crude oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable crude oil and natural gas reserves will vary from our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of our reserves. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing crude oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. The present value of future net revenues from our proved reserves will not necessarily be the same as the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. You should not assume that the present value of future net revenues from our proved reserves is the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. For the years prior to 2009, we based the estimated discounted future net revenues from our proved reserves on prices and costs in effect on the day of the estimate. In accordance with new SEC requirements, we currently base the estimated discounted future net revenues from our proved reserves on the 12-month unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for the preceding twelve months. Actual future net revenues from our oil and natural gas properties will be affected by factors such as: • actual prices we receive for crude oil and natural gas; • actual cost of development and production expenditures; • the amount and timing of actual production; and • changes in governmental regulations or taxation. The timing of both our production and our incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of oil and natural gas properties will affect the timing and amount of actual future net revenues from 27 Table of Contents proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net revenues may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the oil and natural gas industry in general. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the present value estimate. If oil prices decline by $10.00 per Bbl, then our PV-10 as of December 31, 2009 would decrease approximately $622 million. If natural gas prices decline by $1.00 per Mcf, then our PV-10 as of December 31, 2009 would decrease approximately $181 million. Our use of enhanced recovery methods creates uncertainties that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. One of our business strategies is to commercially develop unconventional crude oil and natural gas resource plays using enhanced recovery technologies. For example, we inject water and high-pressure air into formations on some of our properties to increase the production of crude oil and natural gas. The additional production and reserves attributable to the use of these enhanced recovery methods are inherently difficult to predict. If our enhanced recovery programs do not allow for the extraction of crude oil and natural gas in the manner or to the extent that we anticipate, our future results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. If crude oil and natural gas prices decrease, we may be required to take write-downs of the carrying values of our crude oil and natural gas properties. Accounting rules require that we periodically review the carrying value of our crude oil and natural gas properties for possible impairment. Based on specific market factors and circumstances at the time of prospective impairment reviews, and the continuing evaluation of development plans, production data, economics and other factors, we may be required to write down the carrying value of our crude oil and natural gas properties. A write-down constitutes a non-cash charge to earnings. We may incur impairment charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the periods in which such charges are taken. Unless we replace our crude oil and natural gas reserves, our reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. Unless we conduct successful development, exploitation and exploration activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, our proved reserves will decline as those reserves are produced. Producing crude oil and natural gas reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Our future crude oil and natural gas reserves and production, and therefore our cash flows and results of operations, are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. We may not be able to develop, exploit, find or acquire sufficient additional reserves to replace our current and future production. If we are unable to replace our current and future production, the value of our reserves will decrease, and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. The unavailability or high cost of additional drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oilfield services could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans within our budget and on a timely basis. Shortages or the high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel or oilfield services could delay or cause us to incur significant expenditures that are not provided for in our capital budget, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 28 Table of Contents We may incur substantial losses and be subject to substantial liability claims as a result of our crude oil and natural gas operations. Additionally we may not be insured for, or our insurance may be inadequate to protect us against, these risks. We are not insured against all risks. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured and underinsured events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our crude oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to all of the operating risks associated with drilling for and producing crude oil and natural gas, including the possibility of: • environmental hazards, such as uncontrollable flows of crude oil, natural gas, brine, well fluids, toxic gas or other pollution into the environment, including groundwater and shoreline contamination; • abnormally pressured formations; • mechanical difficulties, such as stuck oilfield drilling and service tools and casing collapse; • fires, explosions and ruptures of pipelines in connection with our high-pressure air injection operations; • personal injuries and death; and • natural disasters. Any of these risks could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations or result in substantial losses to us as a result of: • injury or loss of life; • damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; • pollution and other environmental damage; • regulatory investigations and penalties; • suspension of our operations; and • repair and remediation costs. We may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Prospects that we decide to drill may not yield crude oil or natural gas in commercially viable quantities. Prospects that we decide to drill that do not yield crude oil or natural gas in commercially viable quantities will adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In this report, we describe some of our current prospects and our plans to explore those prospects. Our prospects are in various stages of evaluation, ranging from a prospect which is ready to drill to a prospect that will require substantial additional seismic data processing and interpretation. There is no way to predict in advance of drilling and testing whether any particular prospect will yield crude oil or natural gas in sufficient quantities to recover drilling or completion costs or to be economically viable. The use of seismic data and other technologies and the study of producing fields in the same area will not enable us to know conclusively prior to drilling whether crude oil or natural gas will be present or, if present, whether crude oil or natural gas will be present in commercial quantities. We cannot assure you that the analogies we draw from available data from other wells, more fully explored prospects or producing fields will be applicable to our drilling prospects. 29 Table of Contents Our identified drilling locations are scheduled out over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling. Our management has specifically identified and scheduled drilling locations as an estimation of our future multi-year drilling activities on our existing acreage. These drilling locations represent a significant part of our growth strategy. Our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of uncertainties, including crude oil and natural gas prices, the availability of capital, costs, drilling results, regulatory approvals and other factors. The North Dakota Bakken shale and Oklahoma Woodford projects comprise the majority of these drilling locations. Due to limited production history on the relatively few number of wells drilled in these projects, we are unable to predict with certainty the quantity of future production from wells to be drilled in these projects. If future drilling results in these projects do not establish sufficient reserves to achieve an economic return, we may curtail drilling in these projects. Because of these uncertainties, we do not know if the numerous potential drilling locations we have identified will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce crude oil or natural gas from these or any other potential drilling locations. In addition, unless production is established within the spacing units covering the undeveloped acres on which some of the locations are identified, the leases for such acreage will expire. As of December 31, 2009, we had leases representing 185,400 net acres expiring in 2010, 351,100 net acres expiring in 2011, and 238,300 net acres expiring in 2012. As such, our actual drilling activities may materially differ from those presently identified, which could adversely affect our business. Our business depends on crude oil and natural gas transportation facilities, most of which are owned by third parties. The marketability of our crude oil and natural gas production depends in part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipeline systems owned by third parties. The unavailability of, or lack of, available capacity on these systems and facilities could result in the shut-in of producing wells or the delay, or discontinuance of, development plans for properties. Although we have some contractual control over the transportation of our product, material changes in these business relationships could materially affect our operations. We generally do not purchase firm transportation on third party facilities and therefore, our production transportation can be interrupted by those having firm arrangements. Federal and state regulation of crude oil and natural gas production and transportation, tax and energy policies, changes in supply and demand, pipeline pressures, damage to or destruction of pipelines and general economic conditions could adversely affect our ability to produce, gather and transport crude oil and natural gas. The disruption of third-party facilities due to maintenance and/or weather could negatively impact our ability to market and deliver our products. We have no control over when or if such facilities are restored or what prices will be charged. A total shut-in of production could materially affect us due to a lack of cash flows, and if a substantial portion of the production is hedged at lower than market prices, those financial hedges would have to be paid from borrowings absent sufficient cash flows. We have been an early entrant into new or emerging plays. As a result, our drilling results in these areas are uncertain, and the value of our undeveloped acreage will decline if drilling results are unsuccessful. While our costs to acquire undeveloped acreage in new or emerging plays have generally been less than those of later entrants into a developing play, our drilling results in these areas are more uncertain than drilling results in areas that are developed and producing. Since new or emerging plays have limited or no production history, we are unable to use past drilling results in those areas to help predict our future drilling results. As a result, our cost of drilling, completing and operating wells in these areas may be higher than initially expected, and the value of our undeveloped acreage will decline if drilling results are unsuccessful. 30 Table of Contents We are subject to complex federal, state, local, provincial and other laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting our operations or expose us to significant liabilities. Our crude oil and natural gas exploration, production and transportation operations are subject to complex and stringent laws and regulations. In order to conduct our operations in compliance with these laws and regulations, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits, approvals and certificates from various federal, state, local and provincial governmental authorities. We may incur substantial costs in order to maintain compliance with these existing laws and regulations. In addition, our costs of compliance may increase if existing laws and regulations are revised or reinterpreted, or if new laws and regulations become applicable to our operations. Such costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to federal, state, local and provincial laws and regulations as interpreted and enforced by governmental authorities possessing jurisdiction over various aspects of the exploration for, and the production and transportation of, crude oil and natural gas. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations, as interpreted and enforced, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See “Regulation of the Crude Oil and Natural Gas Industry” for a description of the laws and regulations that affect us. Strict, joint and several liabilities may be imposed under certain environmental laws, which could cause us to become liable for the conduct of others or for consequences of our own actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. In addition, claims for damages to persons or property, including natural resources, may result from our operations. New laws, regulations or enforcement policies could be more stringent and impose unforeseen liabilities or significantly increase compliance costs. If we were not able to recover the resulting costs through insurance or increased revenues, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Should we fail to comply with all applicable FERC administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines. Under the EP Act 2005, FERC has civil penalty authority under the NGA to impose penalties for current violations of up to $1 million per day for each violation and disgorgement of profits associated with any violation. While our systems have not been regulated by FERC as a natural gas company under the NGA, FERC has adopted regulations that may subject certain of our otherwise non-FERC jurisdictional facilities to FERC annual reporting and daily scheduled flow and capacity posting requirements. Additional rules and legislation pertaining to those and other matters may be considered or adopted by FERC from time to time. Failure to comply with those regulations in the future could subject Continental to civil penalty liability. Competition in the crude oil and natural gas industry is intense, making it more difficult for us to acquire properties, market crude oil and natural gas and secure trained personnel. Our ability to acquire additional prospects and to find and develop reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment for acquiring properties, marketing crude oil and natural gas and securing trained personnel. Also, there is substantial competition for capital available for investment in the crude oil and natural gas industry. Many of our competitors possess and employ financial, technical and personnel resources substantially greater than ours. Those companies may be able to pay more for productive crude oil and natural gas properties and exploratory prospects and to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or personnel resources permit. In addition, companies may be able to offer better compensation packages to attract and retain qualified personnel than we are able to offer. The cost to attract and retain qualified personnel has increased over the past three years due to competition and may increase substantially in the future. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring prospective reserves, developing reserves, 31 Table of Contents marketing hydrocarbons, attracting and retaining quality personnel and raising additional capital, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The loss of senior management or technical personnel could adversely affect operations. We depend on the services of our senior management and technical personnel. The loss of the services of our senior management or technical personnel, including Harold G. Hamm, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We do not maintain, nor do we plan to obtain, any insurance against the loss of any of these individuals. Seasonal weather conditions and lease stipulations adversely affect our ability to conduct drilling activities in some of the areas where we operate. Crude oil and natural gas operations in the North region are adversely affected by seasonal weather conditions and lease stipulations designed to protect various wildlife. In certain areas, including parts of Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota, and Wyoming, drilling and other crude oil and natural gas activities can only be conducted during the spring and summer months. This limits our ability to operate in those areas and can intensify competition during those months for drilling rigs, oilfield equipment, services, supplies and qualified personnel, which may lead to periodic shortages. These constraints and the resulting shortages or high costs could delay our operations and materially increase our operating and capital costs. Our revolving credit facility and 8 1/4% Senior Notes due 2019 contain certain covenants, or restrictions that may inhibit our ability to make certain investments, incur additional indebtedness and engage in certain other transactions, which could adversely affect our ability to meet our future goals. Our revolving credit facility includes certain covenants that, among other things, restrict: • our investments, loans and advances and the paying of dividends and other restricted payments; • our incurrence of additional indebtedness; • the granting of liens, other than liens created pursuant to the revolving credit facility and certain permitted liens; • mergers, consolidations and sales of all or substantial part of our business or properties; • the hedging, forward sale or swap of our production of crude oil or natural gas or other commodities; • the sale of assets. Our revolving credit facility requires us to maintain certain financial ratios, such as leverage ratios. All of these restrictive covenants may restrict our ability to expand or pursue our business strategies. Our ability to comply with these and other provisions of our revolving credit facility may be impacted by changes in economic or business conditions, results of operations or events beyond our control. The breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our revolving credit facility, in which case, depending on the actions taken by the lenders thereunder or their successors or assignees, such lenders could elect to declare all amounts borrowed under our revolving credit facility, together with accrued interest, to be due and payable. If we were unable to repay such borrowings or interest, our lenders could proceed against their collateral. If the indebtedness under our revolving credit facility were to be accelerated, our assets may not be sufficient to repay in full such indebtedness. Increases in interest rates could adversely affect our business. Our business and operating results can be harmed by factors such as the availability, terms of and cost of capital, increases in interest rates or a reduction in credit rating. These changes could cause our cost of doing business to increase, limit our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities, reduce cash flows used for drilling and 32 Table of Contents place us at a competitive disadvantage. For example, as of February 19, 2010, outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility were $198.0 million and the impact of a 1% increase in interest rates on this amount of debt would result in increased interest expense of approximately $2.0 million and a $1.2 million decrease in our net income. We require continued access to capital. A significant reduction in cash flows from operations or the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect our ability to achieve our planned growth and operating results. Unrest in the financial markets may impact our business and financial condition. We may not be able to obtain funding in the capital markets on terms we find acceptable, or obtain funding under our current revolving credit facility because of the deterioration of the capital and credit markets and our borrowing base. The current turmoil in the global financial systems have had an impact on our business and our financial condition, and we may face challenges if economic and financial market conditions remain unsettled. Historically, we have used our cash flows from operations and borrowings under our revolving credit facility to fund our capital expenditures and have relied on the capital markets and asset monetization transactions to provide us with additional capital for large or exceptional transactions. A continuation of the economic uncertainty could further reduce the demand for crude oil and natural gas and put downward pressure on the prices for crude oil and natural gas, which have declined significantly since reaching historic highs in July 2008. These price declines have negatively impacted our revenues and cash flows. We have an existing revolving credit facility with lender commitments totaling $750.0 million. In the future, we may not be able to access adequate funding under our bank credit facilities as a result of (i) a decrease in our borrowing base due to the outcome of a subsequent borrowing base redetermination, which is solely at the discretion of our lenders, or (ii) an unwillingness or inability on the part of our lending counterparties to meet their funding obligations. Declines in commodity prices could result in a determination to lower the borrowing base in the future and, in such case, we could be required to repay any indebtedness in excess of the borrowing base. The turmoil in the financial markets has adversely impacted the stability and solvency of a number of large global financial institutions. As a result of concerns about the general stability of financial markets and the solvency of specific counterparties, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets has increased as many lenders and institutional investors have imposed tighter lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt at maturity at all or on terms similar to existing debt or at all, and reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide any new funding. Financial market turmoil has impacted the level of activity in the crude oil and natural gas property sales market. The lack of available credit and access to capital has limited and will likely continue to limit the parties interested in any proposed asset transactions and will likely reduce the values we could realize in those transactions. Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that funding, if needed, will be available to the extent required and on acceptable terms. If we are unable to access funding when needed on acceptable terms, we may not be able to fully implement our business plans, complete new property acquisitions to replace our reserves, take advantage of business opportunities, respond to competitive pressures, or refinance our debt obligations as they come due, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. The inability of our significant customers to meet their obligations to us may adversely affect our financial results. Our principal exposures to credit risk are through joint interest receivables ($59.8 million at December 31, 2009) and the sale of our crude oil and natural gas production ($125.8 million in receivables at December 31, 2009), which we market to energy marketing companies, refineries and affiliates. Joint interest receivables arise from billing entities who own partial interest in the wells we operate. These entities participate in our wells 33 Table of Contents primarily based on their ownership in leases on which we wish to drill. We can do very little to choose who participates in our wells. We are also subject to credit risk due to concentration of our crude oil and natural gas receivables with several significant customers. The largest purchaser of our crude oil and natural gas, during the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, accounted for 56% of our total revenues. We generally do not require our customers to post collateral. The inability or failure of our significant customers to meet their obligations to us or their insolvency or liquidation may adversely affect our financial results. Our derivative activities could result in financial losses or could reduce our earnings. To achieve a more predictable cash flow and to reduce our exposure to adverse fluctuations in the prices of crude oil and natural gas, we on occasion, enter into derivative instruments for a portion of our crude oil and/or natural gas production, including collars and price-fix swaps. In the second half of 2009 and January 2010, we entered into several commodity derivative transactions. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Oil and Gas Hedging and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Note 5. Derivative Instruments for a summary of our crude oil and natural gas commodity derivative positions. We did not designate any of our derivative instruments as hedges for accounting purposes and we record all derivative instruments on our balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the fair value of our derivative instruments are recognized in current earnings. Accordingly, our earnings may fluctuate significantly as a result of changes in fair value of our derivative instruments. Derivative instruments also expose us to the risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when: • production is less than the volume covered by the derivative instruments; • the counter-party to the derivative instrument defaults on its contract obligations; or • there is an increase in the differential between the underlying price in the derivative instrument and actual prices received. In addition, these types of derivative arrangements limit the benefit we would receive from increases in the prices for crude oil and natural gas. We may be subject to risks in connection with acquisitions. The successful acquisition of producing properties requires an assessment of several factors, including: • recoverable reserves; • future crude oil and natural gas prices and their appropriate differentials; • operating costs; and • potential environmental and other liabilities. The accuracy of these assessments is inherently uncertain. In connection with these assessments, we perform a review of the subject properties that we believe to be generally consistent with industry practices. Our review will not reveal all existing or potential problems nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and capabilities. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Even when problems are identified, the seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection against all or part of the problems. We often are not entitled to contractual indemnification for environmental liabilities and acquire properties on an “as is” basis. 34 Table of Contents Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer owns approximately 72.8% of our outstanding common stock, giving him influence and control in corporate transactions and other matters, including a sale of our company. As of February 19, 2010, Harold G. Hamm, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owns 123,651,708 shares of our outstanding common stock representing approximately 72.8% of our outstanding common shares. As a result, Mr. Hamm will continue to be our controlling shareholder and will continue to be able to control the election of our directors, determine our corporate and management policies and determine, without the consent of our other shareholders, the outcome of certain corporate transactions or other matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including potential mergers or acquisitions, asset sales and other significant corporate transactions. As controlling shareholder, Mr. Hamm could cause, delay or prevent a change of control of our Company. The interests of Mr. Hamm may not coincide with the interests of other holders of our common stock. Several affiliated companies controlled by Mr. Hamm provide oilfield, gathering and processing, marketing and other services to us. We expect these transactions will continue in the future and may result in conflicts of interest between Mr. Hamm’s affiliated companies and us. We can provide no assurance that any such conflicts will be resolved in our favor. Proposed legislation under consideration by Congress could increase our operating costs, reduce our liquidity, delay our operations or otherwise alter the way we conduct our business. Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations. Changes to existing laws or regulations or new laws or regulations may unfavorably impact us and could result in increased taxes and operating costs and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For example, Congress is currently considering legislation that, if adopted in its current proposed form, would subject companies involved in crude oil and natural gas exploration and production activities to substantial additional taxes and regulation. If such legislation is adopted, it could result in, among other items, additional regulation of and restrictions on hydraulic fracturing of wells, the elimination of certain U.S. federal tax incentives and deductions available to crude oil and natural gas exploration and production companies, and the prohibition or additional regulation of private energy commodity derivative and hedging activities. These and other potential laws and regulations could increase our taxes and operating costs, reduce our liquidity, delay our operations or otherwise alter the way we conduct our business, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of “greenhouse gases” could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil, natural gas and NGLs that we produce. On December 15, 2009, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) officially published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other “greenhouse gases” present an endangerment to human health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. These findings by the EPA allow the agency to proceed with the adoption and implementation of regulations that would restrict emissions of greenhouse gases under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. In late September 2009, the EPA had proposed two sets of regulations in anticipation of finalizing its findings that would require a reduction in emissions of greenhouse gases from motor vehicles and that could also lead to the imposition of greenhouse gas emission limitations in Clean Air Act permits for certain stationary sources. In addition, on September 22, 2009, the EPA issued a final rule requiring the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from specified large greenhouse gas emission sources in the United States beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring in 2010. The adoption and implementation of any regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of greenhouse gases from, our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases associated with our operations or could adversely affect demand for the oil, natural gas and NGLs that we produce. 35 Table of Contents Also, on June 26, 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the “American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009,” or “ACESA,” which would establish an economy-wide cap-and-trade program to reduce U.S. emissions of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide and methane. ACESA would require a 17 percent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from 2005 levels by 2020 and just over an 80 percent reduction of such emissions by 2050. Under this legislation, the EPA would issue a capped and steadily declining number of tradable emissions allowances to certain major sources of greenhouse gas emissions so that such sources could continue to emit greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. These allowances would be expected to escalate significantly in cost over time. The net effect of ACESA will be to impose increasing costs on the combustion of carbon-based fuels such as oil, refined petroleum products, and natural gas. The U.S. Senate has begun work on its own legislation for restricting domestic greenhouse gas emissions and the Obama Administration has indicated its support of legislation to reduce greenhouse gas emissions through an emission allowance system. Although it is not possible at this time to predict when the Senate may act on climate change legislation or how any bill passed by the Senate would be reconciled with ACESA, any future federal laws or implementing regulations that may be adopted to address greenhouse gas emissions could require us to incur increased operating costs and could adversely affect demand for the oil, natural gas and NGLs that we produce. Even if such legislation is not adopted at the national level, more than one-third of the states, either individually or as part of regional initiatives, have begun taking actions to control and/or reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, as have a number of local governments. Although most of the regional and state-level initiatives have to date been focused on large sources of greenhouse gas emissions, such as coal-fired electric power plants, smaller sources of emissions could become subject to greenhouse gas emission limitations, allowance purchase requirements or other restrictions or costs. Any one of these climate change regulatory and legislative initiatives could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases in the Earth’s atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, and floods and other climatic events; if any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our assets and operations. The adoption of derivatives legislation by Congress could have an adverse impact on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business. Congress currently is considering broad financial regulatory reform legislation that among other things would impose comprehensive regulation on the over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives marketplace and could affect the use of derivatives in hedging transactions. The financial regulatory reform bill adopted by the House of Representatives on December 11, 2009, would subject swap dealers and “major swap participants” to substantial supervision and regulation, including capital standards, margin requirements, business conduct standards, and recordkeeping and reporting requirements. It also would require central clearing for transactions entered into between swap dealers or major swap participants. For these purposes, a major swap participant generally would be someone other than a dealer who maintains a “substantial” net position in outstanding swaps, excluding swaps used for commercial hedging or for reducing or mitigating commercial risk, or whose positions create substantial net counterparty exposure that could have serious adverse effects on the financial stability of the U.S. banking system or financial markets. The House-passed bill also would provide the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) with express authority to impose position limits for OTC derivatives related to energy commodities. Separately, in late January, 2010, the CFTC proposed regulations that would impose speculative position limits for certain futures and option contracts in natural gas, crude oil, heating oil, and gasoline. These proposed regulations would make an exemption available for certain bona fide hedging of commercial risks. Although it is not possible at this time to predict whether or when Congress will act on derivatives legislation or the CFTC will finalize its proposed regulations, any laws or regulations that subject us to additional capital or margin requirements relating to, or to additional restrictions on, our trading and commodity positions could have an adverse effect on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business or on the cost of our hedging activity. 36 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There were no unresolved Securities and Exchange Commission staff comments at December 31, 2009. 