Item 1A. Risk Factors, continued expenditures for routine maintenance. Although we expect requirements for our business needs, including the funding of capital expenditures, debt service for financings and any contingencies to be financed by internally generated funds or from borrowings under our $700 million unsecured revolving credit facility, we cannot assure you that this will be the case. Any future significant acquisitions could require additional financing from external sources. Environmental compliance and remediation could result in substantially increased costs and materially adversely impact our competitive position. Our operations are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to protection of the environment, and we, accordingly, make provision in our financial statements for the estimated costs of compliance. These laws are becoming increasingly stringent, resulting in inherent uncertainties in these estimates. In 2000, we agreed to a comprehensive consent decree with the United States Environmental Protection Agency and certain states to resolve disputes about alleged past environmental violations. Under the terms of the consent decree, we are continuing to conduct tests at some of our facilities, perform corrective action where necessary and pilot various pollution control technologies. Our accrued environmental costs include the expenses we expect to incur as a result of our ongoing compliance with the terms of this consent decree. Our competitors in the United States and in some western European and other countries with advanced industrial economies are subject to similar environmental laws and regulations. The specific impact on each competitor may vary, however, depending upon a number of factors, including the age and location of operating facilities, production processes (such as a electric-arc based versus an integrated producer) and the specific products and services it provides. To the extent that competitors, particularly foreign steel producers and manufacturers of competitive products, are not required to incur equivalent costs, our competitive position could be materially adversely impacted. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 8 Table of Contents 