Item 1A. Risk Factors, continued The current global recession and credit crisis have and are likely to continue to adversely affect our business. The current deep and potentially prolonged global recession that officially began in the United States in December 2007 has, since the beginning of the third quarter of 2008, had a material adverse effect on demand for our products and consequently the results of our operations, financial condition and cash flows. In mid-February 2009, The Federal Reserve warned that the United States economy faces an “unusually gradual and prolonged” period of recovery from this deep and recessionary period. The financial and credit crisis that intensified the current recession also triggered a period of upheaval characterized by bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale at nominal amounts of various financial institutions. Despite the unprecedented level of intervention in the credit markets by the U.S. and foreign governments that has already occurred and is likely to continue to occur, this crisis could temporarily restrict our ability to borrow money on acceptable terms in the credit markets and potentially could affect our ability to draw on our credit facility. The financial and credit crisis is also making in difficult or, in many cases, impossible for our customers to borrow money to fund their operations. Their lack of or limited access to capital adversely affects their ability to purchase our products or, in some cases, to pay for our products on a timely basis. Our industry is cyclical and prolonged economic declines could have a material adverse effect on our business. Demand for most of our products is cyclical in nature and sensitive to general economic conditions. Our business supports cyclical industries such as the commercial construction, energy, appliance and automotive industries. As a result, downturns in the United States economy or any of these industries could materially adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Because steel producers generally have high fixed costs, reduced volumes result in operating inefficiencies. Over the six-year period ended December 31, 2008, our net earnings have varied from a record high of $1.83 billion in 2008 to a low of $64.8 million in 2003. Future economic downturns or a prolonged stagnant economy could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Overcapacity in the global steel industry could increase the level of steel imports, which may negatively affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. Global steel-making capacity exceeds global consumption of steel products, particularly during periods of global recession. This excess capacity results in manufacturers in certain countries exporting significant amounts of steel and steel products at prices below their cost of production. These imports, which are also affected by demand in the domestic market, international currency conversion rates and domestic and international government actions, can result in downward pressure on steel prices, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Overcapacity in China, the world’s largest producer and consumer of steel, has the potential to result in a further increase in imports of low-priced, unfairly traded steel and steel products to the United States. In recent years, capacity growth in China has significantly exceeded the growth in Chinese market demand. A continuation of this unbalanced growth trend or a significant decrease in China’s rate of economic expansion could result in China increasing steel exports. The results of our operations are sensitive to volatility in steel prices and changes in the cost of raw materials, particularly scrap steel. We rely to an extent on outside vendors to supply us with raw materials, including both scrap and scrap substitutes, that are critical to the manufacture of our products. Although Nucor has vertically integrated its business through the successful start-up of our DRI facility in Trinidad and through the acquisition of DJJ, we may still be required to purchase our primary raw material, steel scrap, from numerous other sources throughout 7 Table of Contents Item 1. Risk Factors, continued the country. Although we believe that the supply of scrap is adequate to operate our facilities, purchase prices of these critical raw materials are subject to volatility and are influenced by changes in scrap exports in response to changes in the scrap demands of global competitors. At any given time, we may be unable to obtain an adequate supply of these critical raw materials with price and other terms acceptable to us. The availability and prices of raw materials may also be negatively affected by new laws and regulations, allocation by suppliers, interruptions in production, accidents or natural disasters, changes in exchange rates, worldwide price fluctuations, and the availability and cost of transportation. If our suppliers increase the prices of our critical raw materials, we may not have alternative sources of supply. In addition, to the extent that we have quoted prices to our customers and accepted customer orders for our products prior to purchasing necessary raw materials, we may be unable to raise the price of our products to cover all or part of the increased cost of the raw materials, although we have successfully used a raw material surcharge in the steel mills segment since 2004. Also, if we are unable to obtain adequate and timely deliveries of our required raw materials, we may be unable to timely manufacture sufficient quantities of our products. This could cause us to lose sales, incur additional costs and suffer harm to our reputation. Changes in the availability and cost of electricity and natural gas are subject to volatile market conditions that could adversely affect our business. Our steel mills are large consumers of electricity and natural gas. We rely upon third parties for our supply of energy resources consumed in the manufacture of our products. The prices for and availability of electricity, natural gas, oil and other energy resources are subject to volatile market conditions. These market conditions often are affected by weather and political and economic factors beyond our control. Disruptions in the supply of our energy resources could temporarily impair our ability to manufacture our products for our customers. Increases in our energy costs could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our steel making processes, and the manufacturing processes of many of our customers and suppliers, are energy intensive and generate carbon dioxide and other “Greenhouse Gasses” (GHG’s). In 2008, several bills were introduced but not passed in the United States Senate that would regulate GHG and carbon dioxide emissions. Similar bills will be introduced in 2009. This legislation, when adopted, will increase our energy and other operating costs. This proposed legislation regulates domestic production but excludes imports from the same standards for a period of eight years, which will make domestic manufacturing uncompetitive with imported products during this time. These increased costs could also encourage more of our customers to relocate their manufacturing facilities to foreign countries that do not regulate GHG emissions and where Nucor is not positioned to sell or distribute our products. This proposed legislation is also likely to increase energy costs for all U.S. consumers resulting in a weaker domestic economy. We plan to continue to implement our acquisition strategy and may encounter difficulties in integrating businesses we acquire. We plan to continue to seek attractive opportunities to acquire businesses, enter into joint ventures and make other investments that are complementary to our existing strengths. Realizing the anticipated benefits of acquisitions or other transactions will depend on our ability to operate these businesses and integrate them with our operations and to cooperate with our strategic partners. Our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to successfully integrate these businesses. In addition, we may enter into joint ventures or acquisitions located outside the U.S., which may be adversely affected by foreign currency fluctuations, changes in economic conditions and changes in local government regulations and policies. 8 Table of Contents Item 1. Risk Factors, continued Competition from other materials may have a material adverse effect our business. In many applications, steel competes with other materials, such as aluminum, cement, composites, glass, plastic and wood. Increased use of these materials in substitution for steel products could have a material adverse effect on prices and demand for our steel products. Congress has raised the Corporate Average Fuel Economy (“CAFE”) mileage requirements for new cars and light trucks produced beginning in 2011. Automobile producers may reduce the steel content of cars and trucks to achieve the new CAFE fuel economy standards, reducing demand for steel and resulting in an over-supply in North America. Our operations are subject to business interruptions and casualty losses. The steel-making business is subject to numerous inherent risks, particularly unplanned events such as explosions, fires, other accidents, inclement weather and transportation interruptions. While our insurance coverage could offset losses relating to some of those types of events, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely impacted to the extent any such losses are not covered by our insurance. Our business requires substantial capital investment and maintenance expenditures, and our capital resources may not be adequate to provide for all of our cash requirements. Our operations are capital intensive. For the five-year period ended December 31, 2008, our total capital expenditures, excluding acquisitions, were approximately $2.50 billion. Our business also requires substantial expenditures for routine maintenance. Although we expect requirements for our business needs, including the funding of capital expenditures, debt service for financings and any contingencies to be financed by internally generated funds or from borrowings under our $1.3 billion unsecured revolving credit facility, we cannot assure you that this will be the case. Additional acquisitions could require financing from external sources. Environmental compliance and remediation could result in substantially increased costs and materially adversely impact our competitive position. Our operations are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to protection of the environment, and we, accordingly, make provision in our financial statements for the estimated costs of compliance. These laws are becoming increasingly stringent, resulting in inherent uncertainties in these estimates. To the extent that competitors, particularly foreign steel producers and manufacturers of competitive steel products, are not required to incur equivalent costs, our competitive position could be materially adversely impacted. Changes in foreign currency may adversely affect our financial results. Some of our steel products and other subsidiaries conduct their business in local currency and, for purposes of financial reporting, their results are translated into U.S. dollars based on average exchange rates prevailing during a reporting period. During times of a strengthening U.S. dollar, our reported net revenues and operating income will be reduced because the local currency will translate to fewer U.S. dollars. The accounting treatment of goodwill and other intangible assets could result in future asset impairments, which would reduce our earnings. We periodically calculate the fair value of our goodwill and intangible assets to test for impairment. The results of this calculation may be affected by the current adverse market conditions for the steel industry, as well as interest rates and general economic conditions. If impairment is determined to exist, we will incur impairment losses, which will reduce our earnings. 9 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 