Item 1A. Risk Factors, continued generated funds or from borrowings under our $1.3 billion unsecured revolving credit facility, we cannot assure you that this will be the case. Additional acquisitions could require financing from external sources. Environmental compliance and remediation could result in substantially increased costs and materially adversely impact our competitive position. Our operations are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to protection of the environment, and we, accordingly, make provision in our financial statements for the estimated costs of compliance. These laws are becoming increasingly stringent, resulting in inherent uncertainties in these estimates. To the extent that competitors, particularly foreign steel producers and manufacturers of competitive products, are not required to incur equivalent costs, our competitive position could be materially adversely impacted. Changes in foreign currency may adversely affect our financial results. Some of our steel products and other subsidiaries conduct their business in local currency and, for purposes of financial reporting, their results are translated into U.S. dollars based on average exchange rates prevailing during a reporting period. During times of a strengthening U.S. dollar, our reported net revenues and operating income will be reduced because the local currency will translate to fewer U.S. dollars. A strong U.S. dollar also hampers our international trading and distribution business. Weak local currencies limit the amount of U.S. dollar denominated products that we can import for our international operations and limits our ability to be competitive against local producers selling in local currencies. The accounting treatment of equity method investments, goodwill and other long-lived assets could result in future asset impairments, which would reduce our earnings. We periodically calculate the fair value of our equity method investments, goodwill and other long-lived assets to test for impairment. The results of this calculation may be affected by the current adverse market conditions for the steel industry, as well as interest rates and general economic conditions. If impairment is determined to exist, we will incur non-cash impairment losses, which will reduce our earnings. Tax increases and changes in tax rules could adversely affect our financial results. The steel industry and specifically Nucor’s business is sensitive to changes in taxes. As a company based in the U.S., Nucor is more exposed to the effects of the various forms of tax increases in the U.S. than some of our major competitors. Our provision for income taxes and cash tax liability in the future could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws and regulations such as certain provisions in the current administration’s budget proposals and various tax changes under discussion in Congress. The proposals with potential adverse effect include, but are not limited to, repealing LIFO (last-in, first-out treatment of inventory) and decreasing the ability of U.S. companies to receive a tax credit for foreign taxes paid or to defer the U.S. deduction of expenses in connection with investments made in other countries. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 11 Table of Contents 