Item 1A. Risk Factors, continued expenditures for routine maintenance. Although we expect requirements for our business needs, including the funding of capital expenditures, debt service for financings and any contingencies to be financed by internally generated funds or from borrowings under our $1 billion unsecured revolving credit facility, we cannot assure you that this will be the case. Additional acquisitions could require financing from external sources. Environmental compliance and remediation could result in substantially increased costs and materially adversely impact our competitive position. Our operations are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to protection of the environment, and we, accordingly, make provision in our financial statements for the estimated costs of compliance. These laws are becoming increasingly stringent, resulting in inherent uncertainties in these estimates. To the extent that competitors, particularly foreign steel producers and manufacturers of competitive steel products, are not required to incur equivalent costs, our competitive position could be materially adversely impacted. Changes in foreign currency may adversely affect our financial results. Some of our steel products and other subsidiaries conduct their business in local currency and, for purposes of financial reporting, their results are translated into U.S. dollars based on average exchange rates prevailing during a reporting period. During times of a strengthening U.S. dollar, our reported net revenues and operating income will be reduced because the local currency will translate to fewer U.S. dollars. The accounting treatment of goodwill and other intangible assets could result in future asset impairments, which would reduce our earnings. We periodically calculate the fair value of our goodwill and intangible assets to test for impairment. This calculation may be affected by the market conditions noted above, as well as interest rates and general economic conditions. If impairment is determined to exist, we will incur impairment losses, which will reduce our earnings. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 7 Table of Contents 