Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks described below could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of future operations. These risks are not the only ones we face. Our business operations could also be impaired by additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us, or that we currently consider immaterial. We must continue to improve and gain market acceptance of our technology in order to remain competitive and grow. The complexity and uncertainty regarding the development of new technologies affect our business greatly, as does the loss of market share through competition, or the extent and timing of market acceptance of innovative products and technology. We are also potentially affected by: • Longer sales cycles for our solutions due to the nature of that technology as an enterprise-wide solution; • The introduction of competent, competitive products or technologies by other companies; • Changes in the consumer and/or business information industries and markets; • The ability to protect our proprietary information and technology or to obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms; and • The impact of changing legislative, judicial, accounting, regulatory, cultural and consumer environments in the geographies where our products and services are deployed. Maintaining technological competitiveness in our data products, processing functionality, software systems and services is key to our continued success. Our ability to continually improve our current processes and to develop and introduce new products and services is essential in order to maintain our competitive position and meet the increasingly sophisticated requirements of our clients. If we fail to do so, we could lose clients to current or future competitors, which could result in decreased revenues, net income and earnings per share. Changes in legislative, judicial, regulatory, cultural or consumer environments relating to consumer privacy or information collection and use may affect our ability to collect and use data. There could be a material adverse impact on our business due to the enactment of legislation or industry regulations, the issuance of judicial interpretations, or simply a change in customs, arising from the increasing public concern over consumer privacy issues. In the U.S., both the Congress and the legislatures of various states have recently focused their attention on matters concerning the collection and use of consumer data. In most of the non-U.S. locations in which we do business, legislation restricting the collection and use of personal data already exists. Restrictions could be placed upon the collection, management, aggregation and use of information, which could result in a material increase in the cost of collecting some kinds of data. It is also possible that we could be prohibited from collecting or disseminating certain types of data, which could in turn materially adversely affect our ability to meet our clients’ requirements, potentially resulting in decreased revenues, net income, and earnings per share. We could experience a breach of the confidentiality of the information we hold or of the security of our computer systems. We operate extremely large, powerful and complex computer systems that contain personally identifiable data. Unauthorized third parties could attempt to gain entry to such systems for the purpose of stealing data or disrupting the systems. We believe that we have taken adequate measures to protect them from intrusion, but in the event that our efforts are unsuccessful we could suffer significant harm. Further, we handle large quantities of personally identifiable information that must be maintained on a confidential basis. In the event the confidentiality of such information was compromised, we could suffer significant harm. 21 General economic conditions and world events could result in a reduced demand for our products and services. As a result of the economic recession which began in 2001, we experienced a reduction in the demand for our products and services as our clients looked for ways to reduce their expenses. Although the economy has improved significantly, how our clients procure our products and services has changed in some instances. Many clients are negotiating their contracts through a contracts procurement representative rather than through their business leaders. In the face of increasing demands by clients for price reductions and discounts, we are challenged with pricing our products and services so as to be able to make reasonable profits. We likewise continue to be challenged with controlling our expenses, given that a significant portion of our costs does not vary directly based on revenue. If we are not successful in meeting these challenges, we could suffer lower net income and earnings per share. In addition, world events such as the conflict in Iraq and the continuing threats of terrorism may have a negative impact upon the economy in general and upon our business as well, if our clients become hesitant to embark on discretionary spending programs. Data suppliers might withdraw data from us, leading to our inability to provide products and services. Much of the data that we use is either purchased or licensed from third parties. We compile the remainder of the data that we use from public record sources. We could suffer a material adverse effect if owners of the data we use were to withdraw the data from us. Data providers could withdraw their data from us if there is a competitive reason to do so, or if legislation is passed restricting the use of the data, or if judicial interpretations are issued restricting use of data. If a substantial number of data providers were to withdraw their data, our ability to provide products and services to our clients could be materially adversely impacted, which could result in decreased revenues, net income and earnings per share. Failure to attract and retain qualified associates could adversely affect our business. Competition for qualified technical, sales and other personnel is often intense, and we periodically are required to pay premium wages to attract and retain qualified associates. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to hire and retain sufficient qualified management, technical, sales and other associates necessary to conduct our operations successfully. The nature and volume of our customer contracts may affect the predictability of our revenues. While approximately 73% of our total revenue is currently derived from clients who have long-term contracts (defined as contracts with initial terms of two years or more), these contracts have been entered into at various times and therefore some of them are in the latter part of their terms and are approaching their originally scheduled expiration dates. Further, if renewed by the customer, the terms of the renewal contract may not have a term as long as, or may otherwise be on terms less favorable than, the original contract. Revenue from customers with long-term contracts is not necessarily “fixed” or guaranteed, however, as portions of the revenue from these customers is volume-driven or project-related. With respect to the portion of our business that is not under long-term contract, revenues are less predictable and are almost completely volume-driven or project-related. Therefore, we must engage in continual sales efforts to maintain revenue stability and future growth with these customers. In addition, if a significant customer fails to renew a contract, our business could be negatively impacted if additional business were not obtained to replace the business which was lost. Our operations outside the U.S. subject us to risks normally associated with international operations. We conduct business outside of the United States. During the last fiscal year, we received approximately 14% of our revenues from business outside the United States. In fiscal year 2004 we completed the European acquisitions of Claritas Europe and Consodata S.A., and in fiscal year 2005 we acquired ChinaLOOP in Shanghai, China. We continue to evaluate possible acquisitions and alliances outside the U.S. Accordingly, our future operating results could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include legislative, judicial, accounting, regulatory, political or economic conditions in a specific country or region, trade protection measures, and other regulatory requirements. In order to successfully expand non-U.S. revenues in 22 future periods, we must continue to strengthen our foreign operations, hire additional personnel, and continue to identify and execute beneficial strategic alliances. To the extent that we are unable to do these things in a timely manner, our growth, if any, in non-U.S. revenues will be limited, and our operating results could be materially adversely affected. In general, each of our foreign locations is expected to fund its own operations and cash flows, although periodically funds may be loaned or invested from the U.S. to the foreign subsidiaries. Therefore, exchange rate movements of foreign currencies may have an impact on our future costs or on future cash flows from foreign investments. We have not entered into any foreign currency forward exchange contracts or other derivative instruments to hedge the effects of adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Additional risks inherent in our non-U.S. business activities generally include, among others, potentially longer accounts receivable payment cycles, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, potentially adverse tax consequences, and greater difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights. The various risks which are inherent in doing business in the United States are also generally applicable to doing business outside of the United States, and may be exaggerated by the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions due to differences in culture, laws and regulations. Loss of data center capacity or interruption of telecommunication links could adversely affect our business. Our ability to protect our data centers against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or other disasters is critical to our future. The on-line services we provide are dependent on links to telecommunication providers. We believe we have taken reasonable precautions to protect our data centers and telecommunication links from events that could interrupt our operations. Any damage to our data centers or any failure of our telecommunications links that causes interruptions in our operations could materially adversely affect our ability to meet our clients' requirements, which could result in decreased revenues, net income, and earnings per share. Failure to favorably negotiate or effectively integrate acquisitions or alliances could adversely affect our business. Recently our growth strategy has included growth through acquisitions and strategic alliances. While we believe we will be able to successfully integrate recently acquired businesses into our existing operations, there is no certainty that future acquisitions or alliances will be consummated on acceptable terms or that any acquired assets, data or businesses will be successfully integrated into our operations. Our failure to identify appropriate candidates, to negotiate favorable terms, or to successfully integrate future acquisitions and alliances into our existing operations could result in decreased revenues, net income and earnings per share. Decline in value of investments could negatively impact us. Due to the general recession in the market that took place several years ago, several of our investments in other ventures have declined and could continue to decline in value. While some of the investments have been written down accordingly, others could also be subject to future write-down in the event their values become impaired. Postal rate increases and disruptions in postal services could lead to reduced volume of business. The direct marketing industry has been negatively impacted from time to time during past years by postal rate increases. The most recent increase in the U.S. became effective in May 2007. Postal rate increases could force direct mailers to mail fewer pieces and to target their prospects more carefully. Additionally, the amount of direct mailings could be reduced in response to disruptions in and concerns over the security of the U.S. mail system, its global counterparts, and other delivery systems. Such responses by direct mailers could negatively affect us by decreasing the amount of processing services purchased from us, which could result in lower revenues, net income and earnings per share. Industry consolidations could result in increased competition for our products and services. The possibility of the consolidation or merger of companies who might combine forces to create a single-source provider of multiple services to the marketplace in which we compete could result in increased competition for us. We currently compete against numerous providers of a single service or product in several separate market spaces. 23 (See the discussion above under “Competition.”) Since we offer a larger variety of services than many of our current competitors, we have been able to successfully compete against them in most instances. However, the dynamics of the marketplace could be significantly altered if some of the single-service providers were to combine with each other to provide a wider variety of services. Processing errors or delays in completing service level requirements could result in negative financial consequences. Processing errors could result in the issuance of credits to clients, the re-performance of work, and/or the payment of damages. Likewise, the failure to meet contractual service level requirements or to meet specified goals with contractual timeframes could result in monetary penalties or lost revenue. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 