Risk Factors - - We incur substantial costs to comply with government regulations, especially regulations relating to environmental protection, and could incur even greater costs in the future” in Item 1A of Part I of this Form 10-K for a discussion of the impact of government regulation on our natural gas distribution business. Midstream Services Our Midstream Services segment generates revenue through the marketing of our own gas production and some third-party natural gas and through gathering fees associated with the transportation of natural gas to market. Gas Marketing Our gas marketing subsidiary, Southwestern Energy Services Company, was formed in 1996 to better enable us to capture downstream opportunities which arise through marketing and transportation activity. Our current marketing operations primarily relate to the marketing of our own gas production and some third-party natural gas that is primarily sold to industrial customers connected to our gas distribution systems. Our operating income from marketing was $5.8 million on revenues of $458.9 million in 2005, compared to $3.2 million on revenues of $315.0 million in 2004, and $2.6 million on revenues of $202.0 million in 2003. We marketed 61.9 Bcf of natural gas in 2005, compared to 57.0 Bcf in 2004 and 42.7 Bcf in 2003. The increase in revenues is largely attributable to increased volumes marketed and higher purchased gas costs. The increase in operating income during 2005 was primarily due to higher marketing margins on natural gas sales caused in large part by the increased volatility of locational market differentials in our core operating areas. In late 2000, we began marketing less third-party natural gas in an effort to reduce our potential credit risk and concentrated more on marketing our affiliated production. Of the total volumes marketed, purchases from our E&P subsidiaries accounted for 76% in 2005, 77% in 2004 and 75% in 2003. Our E&P subsidiaries have accounted for an increasing percentage of our total volumes marketed because of a shift in our focus to marketing our own production in order to reduce our credit risk. Gas Gathering In 2004, we formed a new subsidiary, DeSoto Gathering Company, L.L.C., that will be engaging in gathering activities related to the development of our Fayetteville Shale play. During 2005, we invested approximately $15.8 million related to those activities and had gathering revenues of $1.0 million in 2005. Gathering revenues and expenses for this segment are expected to continue to grow in the future as gathering systems for our Fayetteville Shale play are constructed to support the development of this play. Competition Our gas marketing activities compete with numerous other companies offering the same services, many of which possess larger financial and other resources than we have. Some of these competitors are affiliates of companies with extensive pipeline systems that are used for transportation from producers to end-users. Other factors affecting competition are cost and availability of alternative fuels, level of consumer demand, and cost of and proximity to pipelines and other transportation facilities. We believe that our ability to compete effectively within the marketing segment in the future depends upon establishing and maintaining strong relationships with producers and end-users. Transportation and Other We hold a 25% interest in NOARK, a partnership that owns a 723-mile integrated interstate pipeline system with a total throughput capacity of 330.0 MMcf per day, known as Ozark Gas Transmission System, which became operational November 1, 1998. On October 31, 2005, Atlas Pipeline Partners, L.P. purchased the remaining 75% interest in NOARK from Enogex, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of OGE Energy Corp., for $165.3 million. 18 SWN Table of Contents The average daily throughput for the pipeline was 182.4 MMcf per day in 2005, compared to 155.0 MMcf per day in 2004 and 115.0 MMcf per day in 2003. The increase in throughput over this time is primarily due to increased gas marketing efforts and widening basis differentials. Arkansas Western has a transportation contract with Ozark Gas Transmission System for 66.9 MMcf per day of firm capacity that expires in 2014. Deliveries are made by the pipeline to portions of Arkansas Western's distribution systems and to the interstate pipelines with which it interconnects. Additionally, Midstream Services has transportation contracts with Ozark Gas Transmission System for a total of 20.0 MMcf per day of firm capacity through 2006. Our share of NOARK’s results of operations was a pre-tax gain of $1.6 million in 2005, compared to a pre-tax loss of $0.4 million in 2004, and a pre-tax gain of $1.1 million in 2003. The pre-tax gain in 2005 was primarily due the increase in volumes transported and higher transportation rates collected for those volumes. The pre-tax loss in 2004 was due primarily to a $0.4 negative adjustment from the operator of the pipeline for prior period allocations of income and expenses to the partners. In the first quarter of 2003, NOARK sold a 28-mile portion of its pipeline located in Oklahoma that had limited strategic value to the overall system. Sales proceeds to NOARK were $10.0 million and our share of the proceeds was $2.5 million, resulting in a pre-tax gain to us of $1.3 million recorded in the first quarter of 2003. The improvements experienced recently in operating results of NOARK resul t primarily from the ability to collect higher transportation rates on interruptible volumes. The Ozark Gas Transmission System primarily competes with one other interstate pipeline to obtain gas supplies for transportation to other markets. We believe that the Ozark Gas Transmission System will be able to obtain the additional future gas supplies necessary to compete effectively for the transportation of natural gas to end-users and markets served by the interstate pipelines. The Ozark Gas Transmission System is an interstate pipeline system subject to FERC regulations and FERC-approved tariffs. The FERC has set the maximum transportation rate of Ozark Gas Transmission System at $0.2867 per dekatherm, plus fuel charges. Historically, our other operations have consisted of the activities of our wholly owned subsidiary, A. W. Realty Company, a company with real estate development activities concentrated on tracts of land located near our offices in Fayetteville, Arkansas. During 2005, we sold approximately 1.6 acres of commercial real estate located in Fayetteville, Arkansas for a pre-tax gain of $0.4 million. During 2004, we sold 45.5 acres of commercial real estate located in Fayetteville, Arkansas for a pre-tax gain of $5.8 million. During 2003, we sold 18.5 acres of commercial real estate for a pre-tax gain of $1.7 million, and we sold certain fixed assets for a pre-tax gain of $1.3 million. These amounts were reflected in “Gas transportation and other” revenues in our income statement. As of December 31, 2005, A. W. Realty Company owned an interest in approximately 15 acres of undeveloped real estate. Other Items Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures EBITDA is defined as net income plus interest, income tax expense, depreciation, depletion and amortization. We have included information concerning EBITDA in this Form 10-K because it is used by certain investors as a measure of the ability of a company to service or incur indebtedness and because it is a financial measure commonly used in our industry. EBITDA should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net income, net cash provided by operating activities or other income or cash flow data prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles or as a measure of our profitability or liquidity. EBITDA as defined above may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. We believe that net income is the financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles that is most directly comparable to EBITDA as defined. The following table reconciles EBITDA as defined with our net income, as derived from our audited financial information for the years-ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003: 19 SWN Table of Contents 2005 E&P Natural Gas Distribution Midstream Services & Other Total Net income $ 144,349 $ 203 $ 3,208 $ 147,760 Depreciation, depletion and amortization 89,229 7,010 402 96,641 Net interest expense 8,416 4,429 2,195 15,040 Provision for income taxes 83,921 11 2,499 86,431 EBITDA $ 325,915 $ 11,653 $ 8,304 $ 345,872 2004 Net income $ 96,307 $ 2,617 $ 4,652 $ 103,576 Depreciation, depletion and amortization 68,065 6,696 158 74,919 Net interest expense 11,537 4,461 994 16,992 Provision for income taxes 55,197 1,471 3,110 59,778 EBITDA(1) $ 231,106 $ 15,245 $ 8,914 $ 255,265 2003 Net income $ 43,713 $ 1,423 $ 3,761 $ 48,897 Depreciation, depletion and amortization 50,334 6,356 143 56,833 Net interest expense 11,911 4,395 1,005 17,311 Provision for income taxes (2) 25,486 767 2,119 28,372 EBITDA(1) $ 131,444 $ 12,941 $ 7,028 $ 151,413 (1) Revised from prior years' presentation to exclude the amortization of restricted stock issued under our incentive compensation plans. (2) Provision for income taxes for 2003 includes the tax benefit associated with the cumulative effect of adoption of accounting principle. Environmental Matters Our operations are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations including the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, or CERCLA, the Clean Water Act, the Clean Air Act and similar state statutes. These laws and regulations require permits for drilling wells and the maintenance of bonding requirements in order to drill or operate wells and also regulate the spacing and location of wells, the method of drilling and casing wells, the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled, the plugging and abandoning of wells, the prevention and cleanup of pollutants and other matters. We maintain insurance against costs of clean-up operations, but we are not fully insured against all such risks. Although future environmental obligations are not expected to have a material impact on the results of our operations or financial condition, there can b e no assurance that future developments, such as increasingly stringent environmental laws or enforcement thereof, will not cause us to incur material environmental liabilities or costs. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal fines and penalties and the imposition of injunctive relief. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent and costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could materially adversely affect our operations and financial position, as well as those in the natural gas and oil industry in general. Although we believe that we are in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations and that continued compliance with existing requirements will not have a material adverse impact on us, there can be no assurance that this trend will continue in the future. The Oil Pollution Act, as amended, or the OPA, and regulations thereunder impose a variety of requirements on “responsible parties” related to the prevention of oil spills and liability for damages resulting from such spills in United States’ waters. A “responsible party” includes the owner or operator of an onshore facility, pipeline or vessel, or the lessee or permittee of the area in which an offshore facility is located. OPA assigns liability to each responsible party for oil cleanup costs and a variety of public and private damages. While liability limits apply in some circumstances, a party cannot take advantage of liability limits if the spill was caused by gross negligence or willful misconduct or resulted from violation of a federal safety, construction or operating regulation. If the party fails to report a spill or to cooperate fully in the cleanup, liability limits likewise do not apply. Few defenses exist to the liability imposed by OPA. OPA imposes ongoing requirements on a responsible party, including the preparation of oil spill response plans and proof of financial responsibility to cover environmental cleanup and restoration costs that could be incurred in connection with an oil spill. 20 SWN Table of Contents CERCLA, also known as the “Superfund law,” imposes liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct, on certain classes of persons that are considered to be responsible for the release of a “hazardous substance” into the environment. These persons include the owner or operator of the disposal site or sites where the release occurred and companies that transported or disposed or arranged for the transport or disposal of the hazardous substances found at the site. Persons who are or were responsible for releases of hazardous substances under CERCLA may be subject to joint and several liability for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment and for damages to natural resources, and it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the haza rdous substances released into the environment. The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as amended, or the RCRA, generally does not regulate wastes generated by the exploration and production of natural gas and oil. The RCRA specifically excludes from the definition of hazardous waste “drilling fluids, produced waters and other wastes associated with the exploration, development or production of crude oil, natural gas or geothermal energy.” However, legislation has been proposed in Congress from time to time that would reclassify certain natural gas and oil exploration and production wastes as “hazardous wastes,” which would make the reclassified wastes subject to much more stringent handling, disposal and clean-up requirements. If such legislation were to be enacted, it could have a significant impact on our operating costs, as well as the natural gas and oil industry in general. Moreover, ordinary industrial wastes, such as paint wastes, waste solvents, laboratory wastes and waste oils, may be regulated as hazardous waste. We own or lease, and have in the past owned or leased, onshore properties that for many years have been used for or associated with the exploration and production of natural gas and oil. Although we have utilized operating and disposal practices that were standard in the industry at the time, hydrocarbons or other wastes may have been disposed of or released on or under the properties owned or leased by us on or under other locations where such wastes have been taken for disposal. In addition, a portion of these properties have been operated by third parties whose treatment and disposal or release of wastes was not under our control. These properties and the wastes disposed thereon may be subject to CERCLA, the Clean Water Act, the RCRA and analogous state laws. Under such laws, we could be required to remove or remediate previously disposed wastes (including waste disposed of or released by prior owners or operators) or property contamination (including groundwater contamination by prior owners or operators), or to perform remedial plugging or closure operations to prevent future contamination. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, or the FWPCA, imposes restrictions and strict controls regarding the discharge of produced waters and other natural gas and oil waste into navigable waters. Permits must be obtained to discharge pollutants to waters and to conduct construction activities in waters and wetlands. The FWPCA and similar state laws provide for civil, criminal and administrative penalties for any unauthorized discharges of pollutants and unauthorized discharges of reportable quantities of oil and other hazardous substances. Many state discharge regulations and the Federal National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System general permits issued by the Environmental Protection Agency, or the EPA, prohibit the discharge of produced water and sand, drilling fluids, drill cuttings and certain other substances related to the natural gas and oi l industry into coastal waters. Although the costs to comply with zero discharge mandates under federal or state law may be significant, the entire industry is expected to experience similar costs and we believe that these costs will not have a material adverse impact on our results of operations or financial position. The EPA has adopted regulations requiring certain natural gas and oil exploration and production facilities to obtain permits for storm water discharges. Costs may be associated with the treatment of wastewater or developing and implementing storm water pollution prevention plans. Employees At December 31, 2005, we had 784 total employees, including 358 employed by our natural gas utility, of which 24 are represented under a collective bargaining agreement. We believe that our relationships with our employees are good. GLOSSARY OF CERTAIN INDUSTRY TERMS The definitions set forth below shall apply to the indicated terms as used in this Form 10-K. All volumes of natural gas referred to herein are stated at the legal pressure base of the state or area where the reserves exist and at 60 degrees Fahrenheit and in most instances are rounded to the nearest major multiple. “Bcf” One billion cubic feet of gas. 21 SWN Table of Contents “Bcfe” One billion cubic feet of gas equivalent. Determined using the ratio of one barrel of crude oil to six Mcf of natural gas. “Bbl” One stock tank barrel, or 42 U.S. gallons liquid volume, used herein in reference to crude oil or other liquid hydrocarbons. “Btu” British thermal unit, which is the heat required to raise the temperature of a one-pound mass of water from 58.5 to 59.5 degrees Fahrenheit. “Dekatherm” A thermal unit of energy equal to 1,000,000 British thermal units (Btu’s), that is, the equivalent of 1,000 cubic feet of gas having a heating content of 1,000 Btu’s per cubic foot. “Development drilling” The drilling of a well within the proved area of an oil or gas reservoir to the depth of a stratigraphic horizon known to be productive. “Downspacing” The process of drilling additional wells within a defined producing area to increase recovery of natural gas and oil from a known reservoir. “EBITDA” Represents net income attributable to common stock plus interest, income taxes, depreciation, depletion and amortization. We refer you to “Business - - Other Items - Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures” in Item 1 of Part I of this Form 10-K for a table that reconciles EBITDA with our net income as derived from our audited financial information. “Exploratory prospects or locations” A location where a well is drilled to find and produce natural gas or oil reserves not classified as proved, to find a new reservoir in a field previously found to be productive of oil or gas in another reservoir or to extend a known reservoir. “Finding and development costs” Costs associated with acquiring and developing proved natural gas and oil reserves which are capitalized pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles, including any capitalized general and administrative expenses. “Gross acreage or gross wells” The total acres or wells, as the case may be, in which a working interest is owned. “Infill drilling” Drilling wells in between established producing wells, see also “Downspacing.” “LIBOR” Represents the London Inter-Bank Overnight Rate of interest. “MBbls” One thousand barrels of crude oil or other liquid hydrocarbons. “Mcf” One thousand cubic feet of natural gas. “Mcfe” One thousand cubic feet of natural gas equivalent. Determined using the ratio of one barrel of crude oil to six Mcf of natural gas. “MMBbls” One million barrels of crude oil or other liquid hydrocarbons. “MMBtu” One million Btu’s. “MMcf” One million cubic feet of natural gas. “MMcfe” One million cubic feet of natural gas equivalent. Determined using the ratio of one barrel of crude oil to six Mcf of natural gas. “Net acres or net wells” The sum of the fractional working interests owned in gross acres or gross wells. “Net revenue interest” Economic interest remaining after deducting all royalty interests, overriding royalty interests and other burdens from the working interest ownership. “NYMEX” The New York Mercantile Exchange. 22 SWN Table of Contents “Operating interest” An interest in natural gas and oil that is burdened with the cost of development and operation of the property. “Play” A term applied to a portion of the exploration and production cycle following the identification by geologists and geophysicists of areas with potential oil and gas reserves. “Producing property” A natural gas and oil property with existing production. “Proved developed reserves” Proved reserves that can be expected to be recovered from existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods. For additional information, see the SEC’s definition in Rule 4-10(a)(3) of Regulation S-X, which is available at the SEC’s website, http://www.sec. gov/divisions/corpfin/forms/regsx.htm#gas. “Proved reserves” The estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids which geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions. For additional information, see the SEC’s definition in Rule 4-10(a)(2)(i) through (iii) of Regulation S-X, which is available at the SEC’s website, http://www.sec. gov/divisions/corpfin/ forms/regsx.htm#gas. “Proved undeveloped reserves” Proved reserves that are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage, or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required for recompletion. Reserves on undrilled acreage shall be limited to those drilling units that offset productive units and that are reasonably certain of production when drilled. For additional information, see the SEC’s definition in Rule 4-10(a)(4) of Regulation S-X, which is available at the SEC’s website, http://www.sec. gov/divisions/corpfin/forms/regsx.htm#gas. “PV-10” When used with respect to natural gas and oil reserves, PV-10 means the estimated future gross revenue to be generated from the production of proved reserves, net of estimated production and future development costs, using prices and costs in effect as of the date of the report or estimate, without giving effect to non-property related expenses such as general and administrative expenses, debt service and future income tax expense or to depreciation, depletion and amortization, discounted using an annual discount rate of 10%. Also referred to as “present value.” After-tax PV-10 is also referred to as “standardized measure” and is net of future income tax expense. “PVI” A measure that is computed for projects by dividing the dollars invested into the PV-10 resulting from the investment. “Recomplete” This term refers to the technique of drilling a separate well-bore from all existing casing in order to reach the same reservoir, or redrilling the same well-bore to reach a new reservoir after production from the original reservoir has been abandoned. “Royalty interest” An interest in a natural gas and oil property entitling the owner to a share of oil or gas production free of production costs. “Step-out well” A well drilled adjacent to a proven well but located in an unproven area; a well located a “step out” from proven territory in an effort to determine the boundaries of a producing formation. “Undeveloped acreage” Lease acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of natural gas and oil regardless of whether such acreage contains proved reserves. “Well spacing” The regulation of the number and location of wells over an oil or gas reservoir, as a conservation measure. Well spacing is normally accomplished by order of the regulatory conservation commission. The order may be statewide in its application (subject to change for local conditions) or it may be entered for each field after its discovery. “Working interest” An operating interest that gives the owner the right to drill, produce and conduct operating activities on the property and to receive a share of production. “Workovers” Operations on a producing well to restore or increase production. “WTI” West Texas Intermediate, the benchmark crude oil in the United States. 23 SWN Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information included in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered in evaluating our business and future prospects. The risk factors described below are not necessarily exhaustive and investors are encouraged to perform their own investigation with respect to us and our business. Investors should also read the other information included in this Form 10-K, including our financial statements and the related notes and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - - Forward-Looking Information.” Natural gas and oil prices are volatile. Volatility in natural gas and oil prices can adversely affect our results and the price of our common stock. This volatility also makes valuation of natural gas and oil producing properties difficult and can disrupt markets. Natural gas and oil prices have historically been, and are likely to continue to be, volatile. The prices for natural gas and oil are subject to wide fluctuation in response to a number of factors, including: · relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for natural gas and oil; · market uncertainty; · worldwide economic conditions; · weather conditions; · import prices; · political conditions in major oil producing regions, especially the Middle East; · actions taken by OPEC; · competition from other sources of energy; and · economic, political and regulatory developments. Price volatility makes it difficult to budget and project the return on exploration and development projects involving our natural gas and oil properties and to estimate with precision the value of producing properties that we may own or propose to acquire. In addition, unusually volatile prices often disrupt the market for natural gas and oil properties, as buyers and sellers have more difficulty agreeing on the purchase price of properties. Our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate significantly as a result of, among other things, variations in natural gas and oil prices and production performance. In recent years, natural gas and oil price volatility has become increasingly severe. A substantial or extended decline in natural gas and oil prices would have a material adverse affect on us. Natural gas and oil prices have recently been at or near their highest historical levels. A substantial or extended decline in natural gas and oil prices would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, our results of operations, our access to capital and the quantities of natural gas and oil that may be economically produced by us. A significant decrease in price levels for an extended period would negatively affect us in several ways including: · our cash flow would be reduced, decreasing funds available for capital expenditures employed to replace reserves or increase production; · certain reserves would no longer be economic to produce, leading to both lower proved reserves and cash flow; and · access to other sources of capital, such as equity or long-term debt markets, could be severely limited or unavailable. Consequently, our revenues and profitability would suffer. Lower natural gas and oil prices may cause us to record ceiling test write-downs. We use the full cost method of accounting for our natural gas and oil operations. Accordingly, we capitalize the cost to acquire, explore for and develop natural gas and oil properties. Under the full cost accounting rules of the SEC, the capitalized costs of natural gas and oil properties - net of accumulated depreciation, depletion and amortization, and deferred income taxes - may not exceed a “ceiling limit.” This is equal to the present value of estimated future net cash 24 SWN Table of Contents flows from proved natural gas and oil reserves, discounted at 10 percent, plus the lower of cost or fair value of unproved properties included in the costs being amortized, net of related tax effects. These rules generally require pricing future natural gas and oil production at the unescalated natural gas and oil prices in effect at the end of each fiscal quarter, including the impact of derivatives qualifying as hedges. They also require a write-down if the ceiling limit is exceeded, even if prices declined for only a short period of time. Once a write-down is taken, it cannot be reversed in future periods even if natural gas and oil prices increase. If natural gas and oil prices fall significantly, a write-down may occur. Write-downs required by these rules do not impact cash flow from operating activities but do reduce net income and shareholders' equity. We may have difficulty financing our planned capital expenditures which could adversely affect our growth. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience substantial capital expenditure and working capital needs, particularly as a result of our drilling program. Our planned capital expenditures for 2006 are expected to significantly exceed the net cash generated by our operations. We expect to borrow under our credit facility to fund capital expenditures that are in excess of our net cash flow and the remaining proceeds of our 2005 equity offering. Our ability to borrow under our credit facility is subject to certain conditions. At December 31, 2005, we were in compliance with the borrowing conditions of our credit facility. If we are not in compliance with the terms of our credit facility in the future, we may not be able to borrow under it to fund our capital expenditures. We also cannot be certain that other additional financing will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. In the event additional capital resources are unavailable, we may curtail our drilling, development and other activities or be forced to sell some of our assets on an untimely or unfavorable basis. Any such curtailment or sale could have a material adverse effect on our results and future operations. Although our estimated natural gas and oil reserve data is independently audited, our estimates may still prove to be inaccurate. Our reserve data represents the estimates of our reservoir engineers made under the supervision of our management. Our reserve estimates are audited each year by Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc., an independent petroleum engineering firm. In conducting its audit, the engineers and geologists of Netherland, Sewell & Associates study our major properties in detail and independently develop reserve estimates. The estimates of Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. may differ significantly on an individual property basis from our estimates. When, in the aggregate, such differences are within 10%, Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. is generally satisfied that the estimates of proved reserves are reasonable. Reserve estimates are prepared for each of our properties annually by the reservoir engineers assigned to the asset management team in the geographic locations in which the property is located. These estimates are reviewed by senior engineers who are not part of the asset management teams and by the president of our E&P subsidiaries. Finally, the estimates of our proved reserves together with the audit report of Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. are reviewed by our Board of Directors. There are numerous uncertainties and risks that are inherent in estimating quantities of natural gas and oil reserves and projecting future rates of production and timing of development expenditures as many factors are beyond our control. We incorporate many factors and assumptions into our estimates including: · expected reservoir characteristics based on geological, geophysical and engineering assessments; · future production rates based on historical performance and expected future operating and investment activities; · future oil and gas prices and quality and locational differentials; and · future development and operating costs. Although we believe our assumptions are reasonable based on the information available to us at the time we prepare our estimates, our actual results could vary considerably from estimated quantities of proved natural gas and oil reserves (in the aggregate and for a particular geographic location), production, revenues, taxes and development and operating expenditures. In addition, our estimates of reserves may be subject to downward or upward revision based upon production history, results of future exploration and development, prevailing natural gas and oil prices, operating and development costs and other factors. In 2003, reserves were revised downward by 15.5 Bcfe due to poorer-than-expected well performance related to our South Louisiana properties. In 2004, the reserves were also revised downward by 12.7 Bcfe due primarily to slightly higher decline rates related to some of the wells in our Overton Field in East Texas. In 200 5, our reserves were revised downward by 31.7 Bcfe, primarily due to continued unexpected declines associated with our Gulf Coast properties and minor changes to decline rates for our wells at the Overton Field. These revisions represented no 25 SWN Table of Contents greater than 4% of our total reserve estimates in each of these years, which we believe is indicative of the effectiveness of our internal controls. Because we review our reserve projections for every property at the end of every year, any material change in a reserve estimate is included in subsequent reserve reports. Finally, recovery of undeveloped reserves generally requires significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. At December 31, 2005, approximately 27% of our estimated proved reserves were undeveloped. Our reserve data assume that we can and will make these expenditures and conduct these operations successfully, which may not occur. Please read “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - - Forward-Looking Information” in Item 7A of Part II of this Form 10-K for additional information regarding the uncertainty of reserve estimates. Our future level of indebtedness may adversely affect operations and limit our growth. At December 31, 2005, we had long-term indebtedness of $100.0 million, excluding our several guarantee of NOARK’s debt obligation, none of which was indebtedness under our revolving credit facility. As of February 20, 2006, no bank indebtedness was outstanding under our existing $500 million revolving credit facility. However, as indicated in the risk factor headed “We may have difficulty financing our planned capital expenditures which could adversely affect our growth” above, we also expect to incur significant additional indebtedness in order to fund a portion of capital expenditures in 2006. The terms of the indenture relating to our outstanding senior notes and our revolving credit facility impose significant restrictions on our ability and, in some cases, the ability of our subsidiaries to take a number of actions that we may otherwise desire to take, including: · incurring additional debt, including guarantees of indebtedness; · redeeming stock or redeeming debt; · making investments; · creating liens on our assets; and · selling assets. Our level of indebtedness, and the covenants contained in the agreements governing our debt, could have important consequences for our operations, including: · requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to required payments on debt, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow for working capital, capital expenditures and other general business activities; · limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate and other activities; · limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and · detracting from our ability to successfully withstand a downturn in our business or the economy generally. Our ability to comply with the covenants and other restrictions in the agreements governing our debt may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic and financial conditions. If we fail to comply with the covenants and other restrictions, it could lead to an event of default and the acceleration of our repayment of outstanding debt. We may not have sufficient funds to make such repayments. If we are unable to repay our debt out of cash on hand, we could attempt to refinance such debt, sell assets or repay such debt with the proceeds from an equity offering. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flow to pay the interest on our debt or that future borrowings, equity financings or proceeds from the sale of assets will be available to pay or refinance such debt. The terms of our debt, including our credit facility and our indentures, may also pr ohibit us from taking such actions. Factors that will affect our ability to raise cash through an offering of our capital stock, a refinancing of our debt or a sale of assets include financial market conditions and our market value and operating performance at the time of such offering or other financing. We cannot assure you that any such proposed offering, refinancing or sale of assets can be successfully completed or, if completed, that the terms will be favorable to us. 26 SWN Table of Contents If we fail to find or acquire additional reserves, our reserves and production will decline materially from their current levels. The rate of production from natural gas and oil properties generally declines as reserves are depleted. Except to the extent that we acquire additional properties containing proved reserves, conduct successful exploration and development activities, successfully apply new technologies or, through engineering studies, identify additional behind-pipe zones or secondary recovery reserves, our proved reserves will decline materially as reserves are produced. Future natural gas and oil production is, therefore, highly dependent upon our level of success in acquiring or finding additional reserves. Our drilling plans for the Fayetteville Shale play are subject to change. As of December 31, 2005, we have spud 88 wells relating to our Fayetteville Shale play. The wells were drilled in areas that represent a very small sample of our large acreage position. Our drilling plans with respect to our Fayetteville Shale play are flexible and are dependent upon a number of factors, including the extent to which we can replicate the results of our most successful Fayetteville Shale wells on our other Fayetteville Shale acreage as well as the natural gas and oil commodity price environment. The determination as to whether we continue to drill prospects in the Fayetteville Shale may depend on any one or more of the following factors: · our ability to determine the most effective and economic fracture stimulation for the Fayetteville Shale formation; · material changes in natural gas prices; · changes in the estimates of costs to drill or complete wells; · the extent of our success in drilling and completing horizontal wells; · our ability to reduce our exposure to costs and drilling risks; · the costs and availability of drilling equipment; · success or failure of wells drilled in similar formations or which would use the same production facilities; · receipt of additional seismic or other geologic data or reprocessing of existing data; · the extent to which we are able to effectively operate the drillings rigs we acquire; or · availability and cost of capital. We continue to gather data about our prospects in the Fayetteville Shale, and it is possible that additional information may cause us to alter our drilling schedule or determine that prospects in some portion of our acreage position should not be pursued at all. We may have difficulty drilling all of the wells that are necessary to hold our Fayetteville Shale acreage before the initial lease terms expire, which could result in the loss of certain leasehold rights. Approximately 25,737 net acres of our Fayetteville Shale acreage will expire in the next three years if we do not drill successful wells to develop the acreage or otherwise take action to extend the leases. As discussed above under “Our drilling plans for the Fayetteville Shale play are subject to change,” our ability to drill wells may depend on a number of factors, including certain factors that are beyond our control. The number of wells we will be required to drill to retain our leasehold rights will be determined by field rules established by the Arkansas Oil and Gas Commission or the AOGC. Through February 20, 2006, the AOGC has approved field rules for five of our fields in the Fayetteville Shale play, establishing drilling units of 640 acres and well spacing requirements within each drilling unit of 560 feet minimum distance between completions in common sources of supply within the Fayetteville Shale formation, up to a maximum of 25 wells per drilling unit. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining the same size drilling unit or the same spacing within each drilling unit in the field rules for our other pilot areas or for our other Fayetteville Shale acreage as a whole. To the extent that the field rules for our other pilot areas or our other Fayetteville Shale acreage are less favorable, we may not be able to drill the wells required to maintain our leasehold rights for certain of our Fayetteville Shale acreage. If our Fayetteville Shale drilling program fails to produce a significant supply of natural gas, our investments in our gas gathering operations could be lost, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 27 SWN Table of Contents As of December 31, 2005, we had invested approximately $15.8 million in our gas gathering operations and we intend to invest approximately $37.5 million in 2006. Our gas gathering business will largely rely on gas sourced in our Fayetteville Shale play area in Arkansas. If our Fayetteville Shale drilling program fails to produce a significant supply of natural gas, our investments in our gas gathering operations could be lost, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our exploration, development and drilling efforts and our operations of our wells may not be profitable or achieve our targeted returns. We require significant amounts of undeveloped leasehold acreage in order to further our development efforts. Exploration, development, drilling and production activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that no commercially productive reservoirs will be discovered. We invest in property, including undeveloped leasehold acreage that we believe will result in projects that will add value over time. However, we cannot assure you that all prospects will result in viable projects or that we will not abandon our initial investments. Additionally, there can be no assurance that leasehold acreage acquired by us will be profitably developed, that new wells drilled by us in prospects that we pursue will be productive or that we will recover all or any portion of our investment in such leasehold acreage or wells. Drilling for natural gas and oil may involve unprofitable efforts, not only from dry wells but also from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net reserves to return a profit after deducting drilling, operating and other costs. In addition, wells that are profitable may not achieve our targeted rate of return. Our ability to achieve our target PVI results are dependent upon the current and future market prices for natural gas and crude oil, costs associated with producing natural gas and crude oil and our ability to add reserves at an acceptable cost. We rely to a significant extent on seismic data and other advanced technologies in identifying leasehold acreage prospects and in conducting our exploration activities. The seismic data and other technologies we use do not allow us to know conclusively prior to acquisition of leasehold acreage or drilling a well whether natural gas or oil is present or may be produced economically. The use of seismic data and other technologies also requires greater pre-drilling expenditures than traditional drilling strategies. In addition, we may not be successful in implementing our business strategy of controlling and reducing our drilling and production costs in order to improve our overall return. The cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is often uncertain, and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of a project. Further, our drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of numerous factors, including unexpected drilling conditions, title problems, pressure or irregularities in formations, equipment failures or accidents, adverse weather conditions, environmental and other governmental requirements and the cost of, or shortages or delays in the availability of, drilling rigs, equipment and services. We incur substantial costs to comply with government regulations, especially regulations relating to environmental protection, and could incur even greater costs in the future. Our exploration, production, development and gas distribution and marketing operations are regulated extensively at the federal, state and local levels. We have made and will continue to make large expenditures in our efforts to comply with these regulations, including environmental regulation. The natural gas and oil regulatory environment could change in ways that might substantially increase these costs. Hydrocarbon-producing states regulate conservation practices and the protection of correlative rights. These regulations affect our operations and limit the quantity of hydrocarbons we may produce and sell. In addition, at the U.S. federal level, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission regulates interstate transportation of natural gas under the Natural Gas Act. Other regulated matters include marketing, pricing, transportation and valuation of royalty payments. As an owner or lessee and operator of natural gas and oil properties, and an owner of gas gathering, transmission and distribution systems, we are subject to various federal, state and local regulations relating to discharge of materials into, and protection of, the environment. These regulations may, among other things, impose liability on us for the cost of pollution clean-up resulting from operations, subject us to liability for pollution damages, and require suspension or cessation of operations in affected areas. Changes in or additions to regulations regarding the protection of the environment could significantly increase our costs of compliance, or otherwise adversely affect our business. One of the responsibilities of owning and operating natural gas and oil properties is paying for the cost of abandonment. Effective January 1, 2003, companies were required to reflect abandonment costs as a liability on their balance sheets. We may incur significant abandonment costs in the future which could adversely affect our financial results. 28 SWN Table of Contents Natural gas and oil drilling and producing operations involve various risks. Our operations are subject to all the risks normally incident to the operation and development of natural gas and oil properties and the drilling of natural gas and oil wells, including encountering well blowouts, cratering and explosions, pipe failure, fires, formations with abnormal pressures, uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, brine or well fluids, release of contaminants into the environment and other environmental hazards and risks. We maintain insurance against many potential losses or liabilities arising from our operations in accordance with customary industry practices and in amounts that we believe to be prudent. However, our insurance does not protect us against all operational risks. For example, we do not maintain business interruption insurance. Additionally, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. These risks could give rise to significant costs not covered by insurance that could have a material adverse effect upon our financial results. We cannot control activities on properties we do not operate. Failure to fund capital expenditure requirements may result in reduction or forfeiture of our interests in some of our non-operated projects. We do not operate some of the properties in which we have an interest and we have limited ability to exercise influence over operations for these properties or their associated costs. Approximately 22% of our gas and oil properties, based on PV10 value, are operated by other companies. Our dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects and our limited ability to influence operations and associated costs could materially adversely affect the realization of our targeted returns on capital in drilling or acquisition activities and our targeted production growth rate. The success and timing of drilling, development and exploitation activities on properties operated by others depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control, including the operator's expertise and financial resources, approval of other participants for drilling wells and utilization of technology. When we are not the majority owner or operator of a particular natural gas or oil project, we may have no control over the timing or amount of capital expenditures associated with such project. If we are not willing or able to fund our capital expenditures relating to such projects when required by the majority owner or operator, our interests in these projects may be reduced or forfeited. Shortages of oil field equipment, services and qualified personnel could adversely affect our results of operations. The demand for qualified and experienced field personnel to drill wells and conduct field operations, geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other professionals in the natural gas and oil industry can fluctuate significantly, often in correlation with natural gas and oil prices, causing periodic shortages. There have also been shortages of drilling rigs and other equipment, as demand for rigs and equipment has increased along with the number of wells being drilled. These factors also cause significant increases in costs for equipment, services and personnel. Higher natural gas and oil prices generally stimulate increased demand and result in increased prices for drilling rigs, crews and associated supplies, equipment and services. We cannot be certain when we will experience shortages or price increases, which could adversely affect our profit margin, cash flow and operating results or restrict our ability to drill wells and conduct ordinary operations. Our business could be adversely affected by competition with other companies. The natural gas and oil industry is highly competitive, and our business could be adversely affected by companies that are in a better competitive position. As an independent natural gas and oil company, we frequently compete for reserve acquisitions, exploration leases, licenses, concessions, marketing agreements, equipment and labor against companies with financial and other resources substantially larger than we possess. Many of our competitors may be able to pay more for exploratory prospects and productive natural gas and oil properties and may be able to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than we can. Our ability to explore for natural gas and oil prospects and to acquire additional properties in the future will depend on our ability to conduct operations, to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in this highly competitive envi ronment. In addition, many of our competitors have been operating in some of our core areas for a much longer time than we have or have established strategic long-term positions in geographic regions in which we may seek new entry. We have recently made significant investments in our drilling rig operations; however, we are still dependent on third party drilling companies. We also lack experience in owning and operating drilling rigs. We have recently made significant investments in commencing our drilling rig operations, including commitments to purchase ten drilling rigs and hiring, as of December 31, 2005, 45 new employees for our drilling 29 SWN Table of Contents subsidiary, DeSoto Drilling, Inc, or DDI. We expect DDI to have a total of approximately 275 employees by year end 2006. The ten drilling rigs will not be sufficient to meet the needs of our drilling program and we will still be dependent upon third party rig providers in order to execute our drilling program in 2006 and beyond. There can be no assurance that the commencement of our drilling rig operations will not have an adverse effect on our relationships with our existing third party rig providers or our ability to secure third party rigs from other providers. We may also compete with third party rig providers for qualified personnel, which could adversely affect our relationships with rig providers. If our existing third party rig providers discontinue their relationships with us, we may not be able to secure alternative rigs on a timely basis, or at all. Even if we are able to secure alternative rigs, there can be no assurance that replacement rigs will be of equivalent quality or that pricing and other terms will be favorable to us. If we are unable to secure third party rigs or if the terms are not favorable to us, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, we have no prior experience in owning and operating drilling rigs. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain qualified field personnel to operate our drilling rigs or to otherwise effectively conduct our drilling operations. If we are unable to retain qualified personnel or to effectively conduct our drilling operations, our financial and operating results may be adversely affected. We depend upon our management team and our operations require us to attract and retain experienced technical personnel. The successful implementation of our business strategy and handling of other issues integral to the fulfillment of our business strategy depends, in part, on our experienced management team, as well as certain key geoscientists, geologists, engineers and other professionals employed by us. The loss of key members of our management team or other highly qualified technical professionals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our hedging activities may prevent us from benefiting from price increases and may expose us to other risks. To reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the prices of natural gas and oil, we enter into hedging arrangements with respect to a portion of our expected production. As of December 31, 2005, we had hedges on approximately 70% to 75% of our targeted 2006 natural gas production and approximately 15% to 20% of our targeted 2006 oil production. Our price risk management activities reduced revenues by $77.2 million in 2005, $35.6 million in 2004 and $37.4 million in 2003. To the extent that we engage in hedging activities, we may be prevented from realizing the benefits of price increases above the levels of the hedges. In addition, such transactions may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which: · our production is less than expected; · there is a widening of price differentials between delivery points for our production and the delivery point assumed in the hedge arrangement; · the counterparties to our futures contracts fail to perform the contracts; or · a sudden, unexpected event materially impacts natural gas or oil prices. In addition, future market price volatility could create significant changes to the hedge positions recorded on our financial statements. We refer you to “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” in Item 7A of Part II of this Form 10-K ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 30 SWN Table of Contents 