ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information included in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered in evaluating our business and future prospects. The risk factors described below represent what we believe are the most significant risk factors with respect to us and our business. In assessing the risks relating to our business, investors should also read the other information included in this Form 10-K, including our financial statements and the related notes and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation – Cautionary Statement about Forward-Looking Statements.” Our revenues and the value of our assets are highly dependent on the prices for natural gas and, to a lesser extent, oil. These prices are volatile, and a substantial or extended decline in natural gas and oil prices would have a material adverse effect on us. Our financial results and the value of our assets correlate closely to the prices we can and do obtain for what we produce, in particular natural gas, which accounts for almost 100% of our production. Prices for natural gas and oil are highly volatile and unpredictable. The following factors, among others, affect the supply of and demand for natural gas and oil: · Changes in consumption patterns, including those resulting from population changes and migrations, new technologies and grown in emerging markets · Global and local economic conditions · Inventory levels · Ability and cost of transporting product to markets, including the ability to connect resources to pipelines or other means of transportation, bottlenecks in pipeline or other transportation capacity such as many are experiencing in the Marcellus and the Utica Shales, export and import controls and other constraints · Production disruptions · Actions of governments and multinational groups, such as the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) · Currency exchange rates · Competition from other producers and from other energy sources, including renewables, which affects the level of supply · Technological developments · Weather, earthquakes and other natural events · Market perceptions of future prices, whether due to the foregoing factors or others A significant or extended decline in natural gas and oil prices, such as the one from 2008 into 2012 when the NYMEX natural gas price dropped from $13.58 to $1.91 per MMBtu, would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, our results of operations, our access to capital and the quantities of natural gas and oil that we can produce economically, including the following: · The cash flows from our operations would be reduced, decreasing funds available for capital investments employed to replace reserves or increase production. · Lower prices would reduce the value of our natural gas and oil assets and, in some cases, make them no longer be economic to produce. This could result in impairments to the values of our assets, such as occurred in 2012. · Access to other sources of capital, such as equity or debt markets, could be severely limited or unavailable. · We could fail to meet financial or other covenants in the documentation governing our debt, leading to mandatory prepayments or defaults. · Locational price differentials change, making it difficult to predict the best locations to conduct our activities. · Varying perceptions of future prices can lead to difficulties in agreeing on the value of assets in acquisitions or dispositions. 30 We endeavor to mitigate against these risks through hedging a significant portion of our production. Hedging also presents risks, including our failure to project the appropriate volumes and price points for hedges and the creditworthiness of our counterparties. For a discussion of our hedging activities, we refer you to Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K. Additionally, we mitigate these risks, in part, through our Midstream Services business, which generates cash flow that is largely fee-based and thus not directly impacted by commodity price volatility. Our ability to sell our natural gas and oil and/or to receive market prices for our production may be adversely affected by constraints or interruptions on gathering systems, pipelines, processing and transportation systems owned or operated by us or others. The marketability of our natural gas and oil production depends in part on the availability, proximity, and capacity of gathering systems, processing and pipeline and other transportation systems owned or operated by third parties. The lack of available capacity in these systems and facilities can result in shutting in producing wells, delaying or discontinuing the development plans for our properties or receiving lower prices. Although we have some contractual control over the transportation and gathering of our production, material changes in these business relationships could materially affect our operations. Federal and state regulation of natural gas and oil production, processing and transportation, tax and energy policies, changes in supply and demand, pipeline pressures, damage to or destruction of pipelines, infrastructure or capacity constraints, and general economic conditions could adversely affect our ability to produce, gather, and transport natural gas. In particular, continued development of the Marcellus Shale by us and others could overtax the capacity of existing gathering and pipeline system, and new or expanded capacity may not be in place in time. The vast majority of our current operations and production are in two areas, the Fayetteville Shale and the Marcellus Shale, and significant events or circumstances affecting one or both of these areas could have a material and adverse effect on our operations in those areas and thus our overall performance. Production from the Fayetteville Shale and the Marcellus Shale accounted for 74% and 23%, respectively, of our consolidated production and, when considering both our E&P and Midstream Services business, essentially all of our operating income in 2013. Our current Fayetteville Shale operations are almost entirely in Arkansas, and our current Marcellus Shale operations currently are only in Pennsylvania. Significant events or circumstances of the types described elsewhere in these Risk Factors or otherwise that affect one or both of these areas would affect a very large part of our operations simultaneously and, if they do not affect the industry generally, would affect us disproportionately compared to other companies,. Those events and circumstances include changes in local laws and regulations, constraints on transportation, natural events, localized price changes and availability of water, skilled personnel, equipment, services and supplies, among others. If we fail to find or acquire additional reserves, our reserves and production will decline materially from their current levels. The rate of production from natural gas and oil properties generally declines as reserves are depleted. Unless we acquire additional properties containing proved reserves, conduct successful exploration and development activities, successfully apply new technologies or identify additional behind-pipe zones or secondary recovery reserves, our proved reserves will decline materially as reserves are produced. Future natural gas and oil production is, therefore, highly dependent upon our level of success in acquiring or finding additional reserves. Our business could be adversely affected by competition with other companies. The natural gas and oil industry is highly competitive, and our business could be adversely affected by companies that are in a better competitive position. As an independent natural gas and oil company, we frequently compete for reserve acquisitions, exploration leases, licenses and concessions, marketing agreements, transportation, equipment and labor against companies with financial and other resources substantially larger than those we possess. Many of our competitors may be able to pay more for exploratory prospects and productive natural gas and oil properties and may be able to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than we can. Our ability to explore for natural gas and oil prospects and to acquire additional properties in the future will depend on our ability to conduct operations, to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in this highly competitive environment. In addition, many of our competitors have been operating in some of our core areas for a much longer time than we have or have established strategic long-term positions in geographic regions in which we may seek new entry. 31 Natural gas and oil exploration and production is an inherently risky business with many uncertainties and potential liabilities. The results of our activities may not be what we project, and not all our liabilities and other exposures may be covered by insurance. By its nature, exploring for and producing natural gas and oil involves substantial capital investment with no assurance of return, or returns at expected levels, and the risk of environmental and other liability. Among other things: · Although we utilize sophisticated geological and geophysical tools to determine where to drill, these do not predict with certainty the presence of natural gas or oil or the rate at which they can be produced. Some wells will result in no production, production that does not cover costs or production at lower levels than expected. · During drilling we can face difficulties in landing our wellbore in the desired zones, staying in the desired zones while drilling horizontally, penetrating rock formations, controlling well pressure, stimulating reservoirs through fracturing and cleaning the wellbore following fracturing and running casing the entire length of the wellbore. These circumstances can delay completion, increase costs and possibly lead to the abandonment of the particular location. · When we acquire properties or businesses through acquisitions, including properties already producing, we may fail to assess correctly the potential of the properties, the costs of integration and development, matters affecting legal title and thus the right to drill and ownership of production, the liabilities that we assume as part of the acquisition and the risks associated with ownership, development and operation. · Equipment can fail or not be available and pipelines can rupture. · We can encounter well blowouts, cratering, explosions, pipeline failure, fires, brine or other fluids, drainage of production from neighboring properties and other hazards. · Earthquakes and hurricanes, storms and other weather events can interfere with drilling activities and operations. · Although we believe we maintain a robust health, safety and environmental program, incidents can occur, whether due to natural events, the actions of third parties or our own errors or oversights. Spills, injuries or other calamities can result in liability for our Company, damage to our properties and interruption of our operations. We maintain insurance against many potential losses or liabilities arising from our operations in accordance with customary industry practices and in amounts that we believe to be prudent. Our insurance does not protect us against all operational risks; for example, we generally do not maintain business interruption insurance, and pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. These risks could give rise to significant costs not covered by insurance that could have a material adverse effect upon our financial results. Our business strategy depends on executing extensive drilling programs and controlling costs to improve our overall return. Shortages of oilfield equipment, services, supplies, raw materials and qualified personnel could adversely affect our ability to implement our programs or to achieve our desired levels of costs. We are engaged in large-scale programs to develop our assets, particularly in the Fayetteville Shale and the Marcellus Shale. We are achieving economies of scale through our sizeable operations in these two areas and, in some cases, vertical integration in certain oilfield services, such as drilling, sand mining and pressure control. We nonetheless compete with other companies for oilfield equipment, services, supplies, raw materials and qualified personnel. In particular, the demand for qualified and experienced field personnel to drill wells and conduct field operations and for geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other professionals in the natural gas and oil industry can fluctuate significantly, often in correlation with natural gas and oil prices, causing periodic shortages. These factors also cause significant increases in costs for equipment, services, personnel and raw materials (such as sand, cement, manufactured proppants and other materials utilized in the provision of the oilfield services). Higher natural gas and oil prices generally stimulate increased demand and result in increased costs for professional personnel, drilling rigs, crews and associated supplies, equipment, services and raw materials. In addition, our E&P operations also require local access to large quantities of water supplies and disposal services for produced water in connection with our hydraulic fracture stimulations due to prohibitive transportation costs. We cannot be certain when we will experience shortages or cost increases, which could adversely affect our profit margin, cash flow and operating results or restrict our ability to drill wells and conduct ordinary operations. Our announced drilling plans can change due to various factors. Our drilling plans are flexible and are dependent upon a number of factors, including the extent to which we can replicate the results of our most successful wells in addition to the natural gas and oil commodity price environment. The 32 determination as to whether we continue to drill wells in our operating areas may depend on any one or more of the following factors: · Our ability to determine the most effective and economic fracture stimulation · Our ability to transport our production to the most favorable markets · Material changes in natural gas prices (including location differentials) · Changes in the costs to drill, complete or operate wells and our ability to reduce drilling risks · The extent of our success in drilling and completing horizontal wells · The costs and availability of oilfield personnel services and drilling supplies, raw materials, and equipment and services · Success or failure of wells drilled in similar formations or which would use the same production facilities · Receipt of additional seismic or other geologic data or reprocessing of existing data · The extent to which we are able to effectively perform our vertically integrated services, including operating our own rigs, fracture stimulation fleet, sand plant, field services and supply chain management · The failure or unwillingness of co-owners of working interests to pay for their share of the costs of new wells or operations · Availability and cost of capital · The impact of federal, state and local government regulation, including any increase in severance taxes Our ability to produce natural gas and oil could be impaired if we are unable to acquire adequate supplies of water for our drilling operations or are unable to dispose of the water we use at a reasonable cost and within applicable environmental rules. Our inability to locate sufficient amounts of water, or dispose of or recycle water used in our E&P operations, could adversely impact our operations. Moreover, the imposition of new environmental initiatives and regulations could include restrictions on our ability to conduct certain operations such as hydraulic fracturing or disposal of waste, including, but not limited to, produced water, drilling fluids and other wastes associated with the exploration, development or production of natural gas. Compliance with environmental regulations and permit requirements governing the withdrawal, storage and use of surface water or groundwater necessary for hydraulic fracturing of wells may increase our operating costs and cause delays, interruptions or termination of our operations, the extent of which cannot be predicted, all of which could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Our financial condition and results of operation could be adversely affected by legislative and regulatory initiatives in the United States and elsewhere relating to environmental matters, particularly hydraulic fracturing and climate change, which could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays or prevent us from realizing the value of undeveloped acreage. As described more fully under “Other Items — Environmental Regulation,” our operations are subject to extensive environmental regulation. New regulations can increase costs or delay or prevent us from achieving our goals. In particular, we often utilize hydraulic fracturing in our drilling activities, and it forms a critical part of our cost structure and success. As also described there, various governmental and non-governmental groups are advocating restrictions and, in some instances, outright bans on the use of hydraulic fracturing. Our E&P operations are currently focused on the production of hydrocarbons from unconventional sources, and we expect to continue to focus on such resources in the future. The production of hydrocarbons from these sources has an energy intensity that is a number of times higher than that for production from conventional sources. Therefore, we expect that the greenhouse gas intensity of our production will increase in the long-term. We actively seek to reduce the environmental impact of our operations by pursuing more efficient use of natural resources such as hydrocarbons and water and managing and mitigating the emissions to the air, water and soil, with a focus on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. With the efforts of our Health, Safety and Environmental Department, we have been able to plan for and comply with environmental initiatives without materially altering our operating strategy. We anticipate making increased expenditures of both a capital and expense nature as a result of the increasingly stringent laws relating to the protection of the environment that will increase the cost of equipment, materials and services whose production utilizes hydrocarbons. 33 We may also face increased competition from alternative energy sources that do not rely on hydrocarbons. We cannot predict with any reasonable degree of certainty our future exposure concerning such matters and if we are unable to find solutions to environmental initiatives as they arise, including reducing the greenhouse gas emissions for our existing projects, we may have additional costs as well as compliance and operational risks with respect to our existing operations as well as facing difficulties in pursuing new projects. Although our estimated natural gas and oil reserve data is independently audited, our estimates are only estimates and thus may prove to be inaccurate. As described in more detail under “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates – Natural Gas and Oil Properties,” our reserve data represents the estimates of our reservoir engineers made under the supervision of our management, and our reserve estimates are audited each year by Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc., or NSAI, an independent petroleum engineering firm. Natural gas and oil reserves cannot be measured exactly, however, and our estimates of natural gas and oil reserves requires extensive judgments of reservoir engineering data and projections of cost that will be incurred in developing and producing reserves, along with pricing. Recovery of undeveloped reserves generally requires significant capital investments and successful drilling operations. Actual reserves, costs and prices may differ dramatically from our estimates. Our operations can be impacted by events beyond our control, adversely affecting our cash flows and results of operations. A portion of our production in any region may be interrupted, or shut in, from time to time for numerous reasons, including as a result of weather conditions, earthquakes, accidents, loss of pipeline, gathering, processing or transportation system access or capacity, field labor issues or strikes or voluntarily curtailment in response to market conditions. Further, although we operate most of the wells in which we have interests, some are operated by third parties. Although we endeavor to assure that third parties conduct their activities with rigorous regard for health, safety, environment and cost, we do not control them and therefore cannot be sure they will operate to the same standards that we would. If a substantial amount of our production is interrupted at the same time, it could temporarily adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. Counterparties to contracts, whether those providing us with goods or services or those owing us payments for production or services, may breach their obligations. We may have difficulty financing our planned capital investments, which could adversely affect our growth. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience substantial capital investment and working capital needs to implement our drilling program. Our planned capital investments for 2014 are expected to exceed the net cash generated by our operations under current natural gas prices. We expect to be able to borrow under our revolving credit facility to fund capital investments to the extent they exceed our net cash flow and cash on hand. Our ability to borrow under our revolving credit facility is subject to certain conditions. As of December 31, 2013, we would satisfy those conditions; however, if conditions were not satisfied and we were not otherwise able to borrow funds, we would need to curtail our drilling, development and other activities or be forced to sell some of our assets on a possibly unfavorable basis. Any such curtailment or sale could have a material adverse effect on our results and future operations. We have made significant investments in pipelines and gathering systems and contracts and in oilfield service businesses, including our drilling rig, pressure pumping equipment and sand mine operations, to lower costs and secure inputs for our operations and transportation for our production. If our exploration and production activities are curtailed or disrupted, we may not recover our investment in these activities, which could adversely impact our results of operations. In addition, our continued expansion of these operations may adversely impact our relationships with third-party providers. Through December 31, 2013, we had invested approximately $1,096 million in our gas gathering system built for the Fayetteville Shale and approximately $213 million in our gas gathering system built for the Marcellus Shale. To the extent necessary to gather our production, we may make further substantial investments in the expansion of our gas gathering systems. We have also entered into multiple firm transportation agreements relating to natural gas volumes produced from the Fayetteville Shale as well as a number of firm transportation and gathering agreements relating to the Marcellus Shale. As of December 31, 2013, our aggregate demand charge commitments under these firm transportation agreements and gathering agreements were approximately $3.5 billion. Our gas gathering business will largely rely on natural gas sourced from our operations. If our Fayetteville Shale and Marcellus Shale programs fail to produce significant quantities of natural gas within expected timeframes, our investments in our gas gathering operations could be lost, and we could be forced to pay demand or other charges for transportation on pipelines and gathering systems that we would not be using. 34 We also have made significant investments to meet certain of our oilfield services needs, including establishing our own drilling rig operation, sand mine and pressure pumping capability. If our level of operations is reduced, we may not be able to recover these investments. Further, entering into these service and supply sectors, including competing with them for qualified personnel and supplies, may have an adverse effect on our relationships with our existing third-party service and resource providers or our ability to secure these services and resources from other providers. If we fail to drill all of the wells that are necessary to hold our acreage, the lease terms could expire, which would result in the loss of certain leasehold rights. Leases on approximately 196,052 net acres of our Fayetteville Shale acreage will expire in the next three years if we do not drill successful wells to develop the acreage or otherwise take action to extend the leases. Approximately 117,407 net acres of our Marcellus Shale acreage will expire in the next three years if we do not drill successful wells to develop the acreage or otherwise take action to extend the leases. As discussed above under “Our drilling plans for the Fayetteville Shale and the Marcellus Shale are subject to change,” our ability to drill wells depends on a number of factors, including certain factors that are beyond our control. With the exception of the Ozark Highlands Unit, which is federally leased, the current rules in Arkansas relating to the Fayetteville Shale provide that each drilling unit would consist of a governmental section of approximately 640 acres and operators are permitted to drill up to 16 wells per drilling unit for each unconventional source of supply. In Pennsylvania, the location of our Marcellus Shale acreage, there are currently no rules establishing requirements for drilling units. However, current rules in Arkansas may change and rules may be implemented in Pennsylvania that could impair our ability to drill or maintain our acreage position. In addition, other E&P operator drilling activity could impair our ability to drill and maintain acreage positions. To the extent that any field rules prevent us from successfully drilling wells in certain areas, we may not be able to drill the wells required to maintain our leasehold rights and our leasehold investments could be lost. We depend upon our management team and our operations require us to attract and retain experienced technical personnel. The successful implementation of our business strategy and handling of other issues integral to the fulfillment of our business strategy depends, in part, on our experienced management team, as well as certain key geoscientists, geologists, engineers and other professionals employed by us. The success of our technological initiatives that support our business enterprise is also dependent upon attracting and retaining experienced technical professionals. The loss of key members of our management team or other highly qualified technical professionals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Certain U.S. federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and production may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. The elimination of certain key U.S. federal income tax deductions currently available to oil and natural gas exploration and production companies has been proposed in recent years. These changes have included, among other proposals: · Repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and natural gas properties · Elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs · Elimination of the deduction for certain domestic production activities · Extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures It is unclear whether these or similar changes will be enacted. The passage of these or any similar changes in federal income tax laws to eliminate or postpone certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and development could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Cyber attacks or terrorist attacks could affect our assets, cash flows and results of operations. Cyber attacks on businesses are occurring with greater frequency, and natural gas and oil infrastructure and systems could become targets of terrorists. We rely on electronic systems and networks to control and manage our exploration and production, pipeline and marketing operations and have multiple layers of security to mitigate risks of cyber attack. We also have security in place around our physical operations. If we nonetheless were to experience an attack and our security measures failed, the potential consequences to our businesses and the communities in which they operate could be significant. 35 Our certificate of incorporation and, bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for someone to either acquire us or affect a change of control. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, together with any stockholder rights plan that we might have in place, could discourage an effort to acquire all or a controlling interest in the Company or replace directors or members of our executive management team. These provisions could potentially deprive our stockholders of opportunities to sell shares of our common stock at above-market prices. Our Canadian exploration and production activities are subject to different risks and uncertainties, different from or in addition to those we face in our U.S. operations. In addition to the various risks associated with our U.S. operations, we are subject to risks and uncertainties related to our Canadian exploration and production activities, including risks related to increases in taxes and governmental royalties, changes in laws and policies governing operations of foreign-based companies, restrictions on imports and exports, expropriation of property, cancellation of contract rights, environmental protection controls, environmental compliance requirements and laws pertaining to workers’ health and safety. Consequently, our exploration, development and production activities in Canada could be substantially affected by factors beyond our control. In addition, the rights of aboriginal peoples, called First Nations in Canada, are not clear. Our operations in New Brunswick have been subject to local protests, causing several temporary interruptions to our exploration activities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 