ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information included in this Annual Report, the following risk factors should be considered in evaluating our business and future prospects. The risk factors described below represent what we believe are the most significant risk factors with respect to us and our business. In assessing the risks relating to our business, investors should also read the other information included in this Annual Report, including our financial statements and the related notes and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation – Cautionary Statement about Forward-Looking Statements.” Our revenues and the value of our assets are highly dependent on the prices for natural gas and, to a lesser extent, oil. These prices are volatile, and a substantial or extended decline in natural gas and oil prices would have a material adverse effect on us. Our financial results and the value of our assets correlate closely to the prices we can and do obtain for what we produce, in particular natural gas, which historically has accounted for almost 100% of our production. Prices for natural gas and oil are highly volatile and unpredictable. The following factors, among others, affect the supply of and demand for natural gas and oil: · Changes in consumption patterns, including those resulting from population changes and migrations, new technologies and grown in emerging markets · Global and local economic conditions · Inventory levels · Ability and cost of transporting product to markets, including the ability to connect resources to pipelines or other means of transportation, bottlenecks in pipeline or other transportation capacity such as many are experiencing in the Marcellus and the Utica Shales, export and import controls and other constraints · Production disruptions · Actions of governments and multinational groups, such as the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) · Currency exchange rates · Competition from other producers and from other energy sources, including renewables, which affects the level of supply · Technological developments · Weather, earthquakes and other natural events · Market perceptions of future prices, whether due to the foregoing factors or others A significant or extended decline in natural gas and oil prices, such as the one from 2008 into 2012 when the NYMEX natural gas price dropped from $13.58 to $1.91 per MMBtu, would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, our results of operations, our access to capital and the quantities of natural gas and oil that we can produce economically, including the following: · The cash flows from our operations would be reduced, decreasing funds available for capital investments employed to replace reserves or increase production. · Lower prices would reduce the value of our natural gas and oil assets and, in some cases, make them no longer be economic to produce. This could result in impairments to the values of our assets, such as occurred in 2012. · Access to other sources of capital, such as equity or debt markets, could be severely limited or unavailable. · We could fail to meet financial or other covenants in the documentation governing our debt, leading to mandatory prepayments or defaults. · Locational price differentials change, making it difficult to predict the best locations to conduct our activities. · Varying perceptions of future prices can lead to difficulties in agreeing on the value of assets in acquisitions or dispositions. We endeavor to mitigate against these risks through hedging a significant portion of our production. Hedging also presents risks, including our failure to project the appropriate volumes and price points for hedges and the creditworthiness of our counterparties. For a discussion of our hedging activities, we refer you to Note 5 to the consolidated financial 30 Table of Contents statements included in this Annual Report. Additionally, we mitigate these risks, in part, through our Midstream Services business, which generates cash flow that is largely fee-based and thus not directly impacted by commodity price volatility. Our ability to sell our natural gas and oil and/or to receive market prices for our production may be adversely affected by constraints or interruptions on gathering systems, pipelines, processing and transportation systems owned or operated by us or others. The marketability of our natural gas and oil production depends in part on the availability, proximity, and capacity of gathering systems, processing and pipeline and other transportation systems owned or operated by third parties. The lack of available capacity in these systems and facilities can result in shutting in producing wells, delaying or discontinuing the development plans for our properties or receiving lower prices. Although we have some contractual control over the transportation and gathering of our production, material changes in these business relationships could materially affect our operations. Federal and state regulation of natural gas and oil production, processing and transportation, tax and energy policies, changes in supply and demand, pipeline pressures, damage to or destruction of pipelines, infrastructure or capacity constraints, and general economic conditions could adversely affect our ability to produce, gather, and transport natural gas. In particular, continued development in the Appalachian Basin by us and others could overtax the capacity of existing gathering and pipeline system, and new or expanded capacity may not be in place in time. The vast majority of our current operations and production are in the Fayetteville Shale, Northeast Appalachia and Southwest Appalachia, and significant events or circumstances affecting one or more of these areas could have a material and adverse effect on our operations in those areas and thus our overall performance. Production from the Fayetteville Shale and Northeast Appalachia accounted for 64% and 33%, respectively, of our consolidated production and, when considering both our E&P and Midstream Services business, essentially all of our operating income in 2014. Our current Fayetteville Shale operations are almost entirely in Arkansas, and our current Northeast Appalachia and Southwest Appalachia operations currently are only in Pennsylvania and West Virginia. Significant events or circumstances of the types described elsewhere in these Risk Factors or otherwise that affect one or more of these areas would affect a very large part of our operations simultaneously and, even if they do not affect the industry generally, would affect us disproportionately compared to other companies. Those events and circumstances include changes in local laws and regulations, constraints on transportation, natural events, localized price changes and availability of water, skilled personnel, equipment, services and supplies, among others. If we fail to find or acquire additional reserves, our reserves and production will decline materially from their current levels. The rate of production from natural gas and oil properties generally declines as reserves are depleted. Unless we acquire additional properties containing proved reserves, conduct successful exploration and development activities, successfully apply new technologies or identify additional behind-pipe zones or secondary recovery reserves, our proved reserves will decline materially as reserves are produced. Future natural gas and oil production is, therefore, highly dependent upon our level of success in acquiring or finding additional reserves. Our business could be adversely affected by competition with other companies. The natural gas and oil industry is highly competitive, and our business could be adversely affected by companies that are in a better competitive position. As an independent natural gas and oil company, we frequently compete for reserve acquisitions, exploration leases, licenses and concessions, marketing agreements, transportation, equipment and labor against companies with financial and other resources substantially larger than those we possess. Many of our competitors may be able to pay more for exploratory prospects and productive natural gas and oil properties and may be able to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than we can. Our ability to explore for natural gas and oil prospects and to acquire additional properties in the future will depend on our ability to conduct operations, to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in this highly competitive environment. In addition, many of our competitors have been operating in some of our core areas for a much longer time than we have or have established strategic long-term positions in geographic regions in which we may seek new entry. Natural gas and oil exploration and production is an inherently risky business with many uncertainties and potential liabilities. The results of our activities may not be what we project, and not all our liabilities and other exposures may be covered by insurance. By its nature, exploring for and producing natural gas and oil involves substantial capital investment with no assurance of return, or returns at expected levels, and the risk of environmental and other liability. Among other things: · Although we utilize sophisticated geological and geophysical tools to determine where to drill, these do not 31 Table of Contents predict with certainty the presence of natural gas or oil or the rate at which they can be produced. Some wells will result in no production, production that does not cover costs or production at lower levels than expected. · During drilling we can face difficulties in landing our wellbore in the desired zones, staying in the desired zones while drilling horizontally, penetrating rock formations, controlling well pressure, stimulating reservoirs through fracturing and cleaning the wellbore following fracturing and running casing the entire length of the wellbore. These circumstances can delay completion, increase costs and possibly lead to the abandonment of the particular location. · When we acquire properties or businesses through acquisitions, including properties already producing, we may fail to assess correctly the potential of the properties, the costs of integration and development, matters affecting legal title and thus the right to drill and ownership of production, the liabilities that we assume as part of the acquisition and the risks associated with ownership, development and operation. · Equipment can fail or not be available and pipelines can rupture. · We can encounter well blowouts, cratering, explosions, pipeline failure, fires, brine or other fluids, drainage of production from neighboring properties and other hazards. · Earthquakes and hurricanes, storms and other weather events can interfere with drilling activities and operations. · Although we believe we maintain a robust health, safety and environmental program, incidents can occur, whether due to natural events, the actions of third parties or our own errors or oversights. Spills, injuries or other calamities can result in liability for our Company, damage to our properties and interruption of our operations. We maintain insurance against many potential losses or liabilities arising from our operations in accordance with customary industry practices and in amounts that we believe to be prudent. Our insurance does not protect us against all operational risks; for example, we generally do not maintain business interruption insurance, and pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. These risks could give rise to significant costs not covered by insurance that could have a material adverse effect upon our financial results. Our business strategy depends on executing extensive drilling programs and controlling costs to improve our overall return. Shortages of oilfield equipment, services, supplies, raw materials and qualified personnel could adversely affect our ability to implement our programs or to achieve our desired levels of costs. We are engaged in large-scale programs to develop our assets, particularly in the Fayetteville Shale, Northeast Appalachia and Southwest Appalachia. We are achieving economies of scale through our sizeable operations in these two areas and, in some cases, vertical integration in certain oilfield services, such as drilling, sand mining and pressure control. We nonetheless compete with other companies for oilfield equipment, services, supplies, raw materials and qualified personnel. In particular, the demand for qualified and experienced field personnel to drill wells and conduct field operations and for geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other professionals in the natural gas and oil industry can fluctuate significantly, often in correlation with natural gas and oil prices, causing periodic shortages. These factors also cause significant increases in costs for equipment, services, personnel and raw materials (such as sand, cement, manufactured proppants and other materials utilized in the provision of the oilfield services). Higher natural gas and oil prices generally stimulate increased demand and result in increased costs for professional personnel, drilling rigs, crews and associated supplies, equipment, services and raw materials. In addition, our E&P operations also require local access to large quantities of water supplies and disposal services for produced water in connection with our hydraulic fracture stimulations due to prohibitive transportation costs. We cannot be certain when we will experience shortages or cost increases, which could adversely affect our profit margin, cash flow and operating results or restrict our ability to drill wells and conduct ordinary operations. Our announced drilling plans can change due to various factors. As of December 31, 2014, we had drilled and completed 3,742 operated wells relating to our Fayetteville Shale play and 277 operated wells relating to Northeast Appalachia. At year-end 2014, after the exclusion of our acreage in the traditional Fairway and the approximately 158,000 net federal acres we hold in the Ozark Highlands Unit, approximately 85% of our leasehold acreage in the Fayetteville Shale was held by production. Approximately 23% and 54% of our leasehold acreage in Northeast Appalachia and Southwest Appalachia was held by production at year-end 2014, respectively. Our drilling plans are flexible and are dependent upon a number of factors, including the extent to which we can replicate the results of our most successful wells in addition to the natural gas and oil commodity price environment. The determination as to whether we continue to drill wells in our operating areas may depend on any one or more of the following factors: 32 Table of Contents · our ability to determine the most effective and economic fracture stimulation; · our ability to transport our production to the most favorable markets; · material changes in natural gas prices (including regional basis differentials); · changes in the costs to drill, complete or operate wells and our ability to reduce drilling risks; · the extent of our success in drilling and completing horizontal wells; · the costs and availability of oilfield personnel services and drilling supplies, raw materials, and equipment services · success or failure of wells drilled in similar formations of which would use the same production facilities; · receipt of additional seismic or other geologic data or reprocessing of existing data; · the extent to which we are able to effectively operate our own drilling rigs; · availability and cost of capital; or · the impact of federal, state and local government regulation, including any increase in severance taxes. We continue to gather data about our prospects in our operating areas, and it is possible that additional information may cause us to alter our drilling schedule or determine that prospects in some portion of our acreage position should not be pursued at all. Our ability to produce natural gas and oil could be impaired if we are unable to acquire adequate supplies of water for our drilling operations or are unable to dispose of the water we use at a reasonable cost and within applicable environmental rules. Our inability to locate sufficient amounts of water, or dispose of or recycle water used in our E&P operations, could adversely impact our operations. Moreover, the imposition of new environmental initiatives and regulations could include restrictions on our ability to conduct certain operations such as hydraulic fracturing or disposal of waste, including, but not limited to, produced water, drilling fluids and other wastes associated with the exploration, development or production of natural gas. Compliance with environmental regulations and permit requirements governing the withdrawal, storage and use of surface water or groundwater necessary for hydraulic fracturing of wells may increase our operating costs and cause delays, interruptions or termination of our operations, the extent of which cannot be predicted, all of which could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Our financial condition and results of operation could be adversely affected by legislative and regulatory initiatives in the United States and elsewhere relating to environmental matters, particularly hydraulic fracturing and climate change, which could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays or prevent us from realizing the value of undeveloped acreage. As described more fully under “Other — Environmental Regulation” in Item 1 of Part I of this Annual Report our operations are subject to extensive environmental regulation. New regulations can increase costs or delay or prevent us from achieving our goals. In particular, we often utilize hydraulic fracturing in our drilling activities, and it forms a critical part of our cost structure and success. As also described there, various governmental and non-governmental groups are advocating restrictions and, in some instances, outright bans on the use of hydraulic fracturing. Our E&P operations are currently focused on the production of hydrocarbons from unconventional sources, and we expect to continue to focus on such resources in the future. The production of hydrocarbons from these sources has an energy intensity that is a number of times higher than that for production from conventional sources. Therefore, we expect that the greenhouse gas intensity of our production will increase in the long-term. We actively seek to reduce the environmental impact of our operations by pursuing more efficient use of natural resources such as hydrocarbons and water and managing and mitigating the emissions to the air, water and soil, with a focus on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. With the efforts of our Health, Safety and Environmental Department, we have been able to plan for and comply with environmental initiatives without materially altering our operating strategy. We anticipate making increased expenditures of both a capital and expense nature as a result of the increasingly stringent laws relating to the protection of the environment that will increase the cost of equipment, materials and services whose production utilizes hydrocarbons. We may also face increased competition from alternative energy sources that do not rely on hydrocarbons. We cannot predict with any reasonable degree of certainty our future exposure concerning such matters and if we are unable to find solutions to environmental initiatives as they arise, including reducing the greenhouse gas emissions for our existing projects, we may have additional costs as well as compliance and operational risks with respect to our existing operations as well as facing difficulties in pursuing new projects. 33 Table of Contents Although our estimated natural gas and oil reserve data is independently audited, our estimates are only estimates and thus may prove to be inaccurate. As described in more detail under “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates – Natural Gas and Oil Properties” in Item 7 of Part II of this Annual Report, our reserve data represents the estimates of our reservoir engineers made under the supervision of our management, and our reserve estimates are audited each year by Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc., or NSAI, an independent petroleum engineering firm. Natural gas and oil reserves cannot be measured exactly, however, and our estimates of natural gas and oil reserves requires extensive judgments of reservoir engineering data and projections of cost that will be incurred in developing and producing reserves, along with pricing. Recovery of undeveloped reserves generally requires significant capital investments and successful drilling operations. Actual reserves, costs and prices may differ dramatically from our estimates. Our operations can be impacted by events beyond our control, adversely affecting our cash flows and results of operations. A portion of our production in any region may be interrupted, or shut in, from time to time for numerous reasons, including as a result of weather conditions, earthquakes, accidents, loss of pipeline, gathering, processing or transportation system access or capacity, field labor issues or strikes or voluntarily curtailment in response to market conditions. Further, although we operate most of the wells in which we have interests, some are operated by third parties. Although we endeavor to assure that third parties conduct their activities with rigorous regard for health, safety, environment and cost, we do not control them and therefore cannot be sure they will operate to the same standards that we would. If a substantial amount of our production is interrupted at the same time, it could temporarily adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. Counterparties to contracts, whether those providing us with goods or services or those owing us payments for production or services, may breach their obligations. We may have difficulty financing our planned capital investments, which could adversely affect our growth. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience substantial capital investment and working capital needs to implement our drilling program. Our planned capital investments for 2015 are expected to exceed the net cash generated by our operations under current natural gas prices. We expect to be able to borrow under our revolving credit facility to fund capital investments to the extent they exceed our net cash flow and cash on hand. Our ability to borrow under our revolving credit facility is subject to certain conditions. As of December 31, 2014, we would satisfy those conditions; however, if conditions were not satisfied and we were not otherwise able to borrow funds, we would need to curtail our drilling, development and other activities or be forced to sell some of our assets on a possibly unfavorable basis. Any such curtailment or sale could have a material adverse effect on our results and future operations. We have made significant investments in pipelines and gathering systems and contracts and in oilfield service businesses, including our drilling rig, pressure pumping equipment and sand mine operations, to lower costs and secure inputs for our operations and transportation for our production. If our exploration and production activities are curtailed or disrupted, we may not recover our investment in these activities, which could adversely impact our results of operations. In addition, our continued expansion of these operations may adversely impact our relationships with third-party providers. Through December 31, 2014, we had invested approximately $1,184 million in our gas gathering system built for the Fayetteville Shale and approximately $247 million in our gas gathering system built for our operations in Northeast Appalachia. To the extent necessary to gather our production, we may make further substantial investments in the expansion of our gas gathering systems. We have also entered into multiple firm transportation agreements relating to natural gas volumes produced from the Fayetteville Shale as well as a number of firm transportation and gathering agreements relating to the Marcellus Shale. As of December 31, 2014, our aggregate demand charge commitments under these firm transportation agreements and gathering agreements were approximately $5.4 billion. Our gas gathering business will largely rely on natural gas sourced from our operations. If our Fayetteville Shale and Northeast Appalachia programs fail to produce significant quantities of natural gas within expected timeframes, our investments in our gas gathering operations could be lost, and we could be forced to pay demand or other charges for transportation on pipelines and gathering systems that we would not be using. We also have made significant investments to meet certain of our oilfield services needs, including establishing our own drilling rig operation, sand mine and pressure pumping capability. If our level of operations is reduced, we may not be able to recover these investments. Further, entering into these service and supply sectors, including competing with them for qualified personnel and supplies, may have an adverse effect on our relationships with our existing third-party service and resource providers or our ability to secure these services and resources from other providers. 34 Table of Contents Our drilling plans are subject to change. As of December 31, 2014, we had drilled and completed 3,742 operated wells relating to our Fayetteville Shale play and 277 operated wells relating to Northeast Appalachia. At year-end 2014, after the exclusion of our acreage in the traditional Fairway and the approximately 158,000 net federal acres we hold in the Ozark Highlands Unit, approximately 85% of our leasehold acreage in the Fayetteville Shale was held by production. Approximately 23% and 54% of our leasehold acreage in Northeast Appalachia and Southwest Appalachia was held by production at year-end 2014, respectively. Our drilling plans are flexible and are dependent upon a number of factors, including the extent to which we can replicate the results of our most successful wells in addition to the natural gas and oil commodity price environment. The determination as to whether we continue to drill wells in our operating areas may depend on any one or more of the following factors: · our ability to determine the most effective and economic fracture stimulation; · our ability to transport our production to the most favorable markets; · material changes in natural gas prices (including regional basis differentials); · changes in the costs to drill, complete or operate wells and our ability to reduce drilling risks; · the extent of our success in drilling and completing horizontal wells; · the costs and availability of oilfield personnel services and drilling supplies, raw materials, and equipment services · success or failure of wells drilled in similar formations of which would use the same production facilities; · receipt of additional seismic or other geologic data or reprocessing of existing data; · the extent to which we are able to effectively operate our own drilling rigs; · availability and cost of capital; or · the impact of federal, state and local government regulation, including any increase in severance taxes. We continue to gather data about our prospects in our operating areas, and it is possible that additional information may cause us to alter our drilling schedule or determine that prospects in some portion of our acreage position should not be pursued at all. If we fail to drill all of the wells that are necessary to hold our acreage, the lease terms could expire, which would result in the loss of certain leasehold rights. Leases on approximately 175,220 (including 158,231 net acres held on federal lands which are currently suspended by the Bureau of Land Management) net acres of our Fayetteville Shale acreage will expire in the next three years if we do not drill successful wells to develop the acreage or otherwise take action to extend the leases. Approximately 133,624 and 131,782 net acres of our Northeast Appalachia and Southwest Appalachia acreage, respectively, will expire in the next three years if we do not drill successful wells to develop the acreage or otherwise take action to extend the leases. As discussed above under “Our drilling plans are subject to change,” our ability to drill wells depends on a number of factors, including certain factors that are beyond our control. With the exception of the Ozark Highlands Unit, which is leased from the Federal Government, the current rules in Arkansas relating to the Fayetteville Shale provide that each drilling unit would consist of a governmental section of approximately 640 acres and operators are permitted to drill up to 16 wells per drilling unit for each unconventional source of supply. In Pennsylvania, the location of our Northeast Appalachia acreage, there are currently no rules establishing requirements for drilling units. In West Virginia, where the bulk of our Southwest Appalachia acreage is located, there is no procedure to compel holders of neighboring interests to join into units. Current rules in these states may change in ways that could impair our ability to drill or maintain our acreage position. In addition, other E&P operator drilling activity could impair our ability to drill and maintain acreage positions. To the extent that any field rules prevent us from successfully drilling wells in certain areas, we may not be able to drill the wells required to maintain our leasehold rights and our leasehold investments could be lost. We depend upon our management team and our operations require us to attract and retain experienced technical personnel. The successful implementation of our business strategy and handling of other issues integral to the fulfillment of our business strategy depends, in part, on our experienced management team, as well as certain key geoscientists, geologists, engineers and other professionals employed by us. The success of our technological initiatives that support our business enterprise is also dependent upon attracting and retaining experienced technical professionals. The loss of key members of our management team or other highly qualified technical professionals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 35 Table of Contents Certain U.S. federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and production may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. The elimination of certain key U.S. federal income tax deductions currently available to oil and natural gas exploration and production companies has been proposed in recent years. These changes have included, among other proposals: · Repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and natural gas properties · Elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs · Elimination of the deduction for certain domestic production activities · Extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures It is unclear whether these or similar changes will be enacted. The passage of these or any similar changes in federal income tax laws to eliminate or postpone certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and development could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Cyber attacks or terrorist attacks could affect our assets, cash flows and results of operations. Cyber attacks on businesses are occurring with greater frequency, and natural gas and oil infrastructure and systems could become targets of terrorists. We rely on electronic systems and networks to control and manage our exploration and production, pipeline and marketing operations and have multiple layers of security to mitigate risks of cyber attack. We also have security in place around our physical operations. If we nonetheless were to experience an attack and our security measures failed, the potential consequences to our businesses and the communities in which they operate could be significant. Our Canadian exploration and production activities are subject to different risks and uncertainties, different from or in addition to those we face in our U.S. operations. In addition to the various risks associated with our U.S. operations, we are subject to risks and uncertainties related to our Canadian exploration and production activities, including risks related to increases in taxes and governmental royalties, changes in laws and policies governing operations of foreign-based companies, restrictions on imports and exports, expropriation of property, cancellation of contract rights, environmental protection controls, environmental compliance requirements and laws pertaining to workers’ health and safety. Consequently, our exploration, development and production activities in Canada could be substantially affected by factors beyond our control. In addition, the rights of aboriginal peoples, called First Nations in Canada, are not clear. Our operations in New Brunswick have been subject to local protests, causing several temporary interruptions to our exploration activities. In addition, the newly elected provincial government in New Brunswick recently announced an intent to impose a moratorium on hydraulic fracturing until a list of conditions is met and has introduced authorizing legislation in the provincial legislature. We have applied for an extension of our licenses past the end of the moratorium, but as of this time that extension has not been granted. The list of conditions that the provincial government has announced is subjective, and we cannot predict the duration of the moratorium or whether we will be granted the extension requested or any other extension. Unless and until the moratorium is lifted and our licenses are extended, we will not be able to continue with our program in New Brunswick. Because we have no plans to pay dividends on our common stock, investors in our common stock must look solely to stock appreciation for a return on their investment in us. We do not currently pay cash dividends on our common stock, and we do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain all future earnings and other cash resources, if any, for the operation and development of our business and do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Payment of any future dividends on our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account many factors, including our financial condition, operating results, current and anticipated cash needs and plans for expansions. Any future dividends on our common stock may also be restricted by any loan agreements which we may enter into from time to time and from the future issuances of preferred stock. However, until the depositary shares representing the 1/20th interest in our 6.25% Series B Mandatory Preferred Stock convert to common stock, we will pay quarterly dividends to the holders of such depositary shares. 36 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and under Delaware law may impede or discourage a takeover, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We are a Delaware corporation, and the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the market price of our common stock. In addition, protective provisions in our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws or the implementation by our board of directors of a stockholder rights plan could prevent a takeover, which could harm our stockholders. Our current and future levels of indebtedness and the terms of our financing arrangements may adversely affect our results and limit our growth. At December 31, 2014, we had long-term indebtedness of $2.5 billion, including borrowings of $300 million under our revolving credit facility and $500 million under our Term Loan Facility. Also at December 31, 2014, we had short-term indebtedness of $4.5 billion relating to our bridge facility which was repaid in full in January 2015 in part through the issuance of $2.2 billion of additional long-term senior notes. See Note 16 – Subsequent Events within Item 8 of this Annual Report for further details on indebtedness incurred subsequent to December 31, 2014. The terms of the indentures relating to our outstanding senior notes, our credit facilities, and the master lease agreements relating to our drilling rigs and other equipment, which we collectively refer to as our “financing agreements,” impose restrictions on our ability and, in some cases, the ability of our subsidiaries to take a number of actions that we may otherwise desire to take, which may include, without limitation, one or more of the following: · incurring additional debt; · redeeming stock or redeeming debt; · making investments; · creating liens on our assets; and · selling assets. Although the indenture governing the notes contains covenants that apply to us, covenants limiting liens and sale and leasebacks covenants contain exceptions and limitations that would allow us, pursuant to the terms of the indenture, to create, grant or incur certain liens or security interests. Moreover, the indenture does not contain any limitations on the ability of us or our subsidiaries to incur debt, pay dividends, make investments, or limit the ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions to us. Such activities may, however, be limited by our other financing agreements in certain circumstances. Our level of indebtedness and off-balance sheet obligations, and the covenants contained in our financing agreements, could have important consequences for our operations, including: · requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to required payments, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow for working capital, capital expenditures and other general business activities; · limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate and other activities; · limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and · detracting from our ability to successfully withstand a downturn in our business or the economy generally. Our ability to comply with the covenants and other restrictions in our financing agreements may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic and financial conditions. If we fail to comply with the covenants and other restrictions, it could lead to an event of default and the acceleration of our obligations under the notes or our other financing agreements, and in the case of the lease agreements for drilling rigs, loss of use of our drilling rigs. In particular, a significant or extended decline in natural gas or oil prices would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, our access to capital and the quantities of natural gas and oil that we can produce economically. For example, the New York Mercantile Exchange, or NYMEX, natural gas prices traded at a high of $5.56 in February 2014 and a low of $3.73 in November 2014 based on last-day-of-month settlement. We may not have sufficient funds to make such payments. If we are unable to satisfy our obligations with cash on hand, we could attempt to refinance such debt, sell assets or repay such debt with the proceeds from an equity offering. We cannot assure 37 Table of Contents you that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flow to pay the interest on our debt, to meet our lease obligations, or that future borrowings, equity financings or proceeds from the sale of assets will be available to pay or refinance such debt or obligations. The terms of our financing agreements may also prohibit us from taking such actions. Factors that will affect our ability to raise cash through an offering of our capital stock, a refinancing of our debt or a sale of assets include financial market conditions and our market value and operating performance at the time of such offering or other financing. We cannot assure you that any such proposed offering, refinancing or sale of assets can be successfully completed or, if completed, that the terms will be favorable to us. A downgrade in our credit rating could negatively impact our cost of and ability to access capital. Actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under further review for a downgrade, could affect the market value of our senior notes and increase our corporate borrowing costs. Such ratings are limited in scope, and do not address all material risks relating to us, but rather reflect only the view of each rating agency at the time the rating is issued. An explanation of the significance of such rating may be obtained from such rating agency. Although we are currently rated “investment grade,” there can be no assurance that such credit ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that such ratings will not be lowered, suspended or withdrawn entirely by the rating agencies, if, in each rating agency’s judgment, circumstances so warrant. We may be subject to risks in connection with acquisitions, including the Acquisitions, and the integration of significant acquisitions may be difficult. We have consummated several acquisitions and we periodically evaluate other potential acquisitions of reserves, properties, prospects and leaseholds and other strategic transactions that appear to fit within our overall business strategy. The successful acquisition of properties, including the Acquisitions, requires an assessment of several factors, including: · recoverable reserves; · future oil and natural gas prices and their appropriate differentials; · availability and cost of transportation of production to markets; · availability and cost of drilling equipment and of skilled personnel; · development and operating costs and potential environments and other liabilities; · regulatory, permitting and similar matters; and · our ability to obtain external financing to fund the purchase price. The accuracy of these assessments is inherently uncertain. In connection with these assessments, we perform a review of the subject properties that we believe to be generally consistent with industry practices. Our review will not reveal all existing or potential problems nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and potential recoverable reserves. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Even when problems are identified, the seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection against all or part of the problems. We often are not entitled to contractual indemnification for environmental liabilities and acquire properties on an “as is” basis, and, as is the case with certain liabilities associated with the assets to be acquired, we are entitled to indemnification for only certain environmental liabilities. In addition, we waived or did not include certain environmental and title indemnification in our acquisitions in Southwest Appalachia in exchange for downward adjustments to the purchase prices. Significant acquisitions, including the Acquisitions, and other strategic transactions may involve other risks, including: · diversion of our management’s attention to evaluating, negotiating and integrating significant acquisitions and strategic transactions; · the challenge and cost of integrating acquired operations, information management and other technology systems and business cultures with those of ours while carrying on our ongoing business; · difficulty associated with coordinating geographically separate assets; · the challenge of attracting and retaining personnel associated with acquired operations; and · the failure to realize the full benefit that we expect in estimated proved reserves, production volume, cost savings from operating synergies or other benefits anticipated from an acquisition, or to realize these benefits within the expected time frame. 38 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 