Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks described below could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of future operations. If the Company’s leadership is unsuccessful in implementing our new business strategy or if our new investments and business initiatives are not successful, the Company’s financial condition could be adversely affected. Since 2011, we have experienced significant changes in our executive leadership, including the appointment of Chief Executive Officer Scott Howe, Chief Financial Officer Warren Jenson, Chief Revenue Officer Nada Stirratt, and Chief Product and Engineering Officer Phil Mui. Under the Company’s executive leadership, we launched an aggressive growth strategy that includes, among other things, accelerated investment in product development, which began in fiscal 2013. See “Item 1. Business” and “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in this Form 10-K. These investments in product development, however, may not lead to increased revenue and profitability as we may not be successful in deploying our new products and services. If the Company is not successful in creating value from these investments, the investments and lack of new product sales could have a negative impact on the Company’s operating results and financial condition. Failure to keep up with rapidly changing technologies and marketing practices could cause our products and services to become less competitive or obsolete, which could result in loss of market share and decreased revenues and net income. Advances in information technology are changing the way our clients use and purchase information products and services. Maintaining the technological competitiveness of our data products, processing functionality, software systems and services is key to our continued success. However, the complexity and uncertainty regarding the development of new technologies and the extent and timing of market acceptance of innovative products and services create difficulties in maintaining this competiveness. Without the timely introduction of new products, services and enhancements, our products and services will become technologically or commercially obsolete over time, in which case our revenue and operating results would suffer. 14 Consumer needs and the business information industry as a whole are in a constant state of change. For example, in recent years, we have seen a decline in the use of direct mail marketing and an increase in the use of alternative marketing channels such as online advertising. Our ability to continually improve our current processes and products in response to changes in technology and to develop new products and services are essential in maintaining our competitive position, preserving our market share and meeting the increasingly sophisticated requirements of our clients. If we fail to enhance our current products and services or fail to develop new products in light of emerging technologies and industry standards, we could lose clients to current or future competitors, which could result in impairment of our growth prospects, loss of market share and decreased revenues. A significant breach of the confidentiality of the information we hold or of the security of our computer systems could be detrimental to our business, reputation and results of operations. We operate complex computer systems that contain personally identifiable data, much of which must be maintained on a confidential basis. Although we have extensive physical and cyber security and associated procedures, our databases have in the past been and in the future may be subject to unauthorized access by third parties. Such third parties could attempt to gain entry to our systems for the purpose of stealing data or disrupting the systems. We believe we have taken adequate measures to protect our systems from intrusion, but we cannot be certain that advances in criminal capabilities, discovery of new vulnerabilities in our systems and attempts to exploit those vulnerabilities, physical system or facility break-ins and data thefts or other developments will not compromise or breach the technology protecting our systems and the information we possess. In the event that our protection efforts are unsuccessful and we experience an unauthorized disclosure of confidential information or the security of such information or our systems are compromised, we could suffer substantial harm. Such a security breach could result in operation disruptions that impair our ability to meet our clients’ requirements, which could result in decreased revenues. Also, our reputation could suffer irreparable harm, causing our current and prospective clients to reject our products and services in the future. Further, we could be forced to expend significant Company resources in response to a security breach, including repairing system damage, increasing cyber security protection costs by deploying additional personnel and protection technologies, and litigating and resolving legal claims, all of which could divert the attention of our management and key personnel away from our business operations. In any event, a significant security breach could materially harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Changes in legislative, judicial, regulatory, cultural or consumer environments relating to consumer privacy or information collection and use may limit our ability to collect and use data. Such developments could cause revenues to decline, increase the cost and availability of data and adversely affect the demand for our products and services. With the growth of online advertising and e-commerce, there is increasing awareness and concern among the general public, governmental bodies and others regarding marketing and privacy matters, particularly as they relate to individual privacy interests and global reach of the online marketplace. See “Item 1. Business – Privacy Considerations” in this Form 10-K. In the U.S., both Congress and the legislatures of various states have recently focused their attention on matters concerning the collection and use of consumer data. In all of the non-U.S. locations in which we do business, legislation restricting the collection and use of personal data already exists or is presently contemplated. Restrictions are often placed on the use of data upon the occurrence of unanticipated events that rapidly drive the adoption of legislation or regulation. Restrictions could be placed upon the collection, management, aggregation and use of information, which could result in a material increase in the cost of collecting certain kinds of data. In the U.S., non-sensitive data about a consumer is generally usable under current rules and regulations so long as the person does not affirmatively “opt-out” of the collection of such data. In Europe the reverse is true. If the European model were to be adopted in the U.S., less data would be available and the cost of data would be higher. Decreased availability and increased costs of information could adversely affect our ability to meet our clients’ requirements and could result in decreased revenues. Additionally, legislative, regulatory, adverse publicity, litigation or cultural changes regarding commercial use of consumer data could negatively influence, change or reduce our current and prospective clients’ demand for our products and services. 15 Industry consolidations may increase competition for our products and services, which could negatively impact our financial condition and operating results. We compete against numerous providers of products and services in several separate markets. See “Item 1. Business - Competition” in this Form 10-K. Since we offer a larger variety of products and services than many of these competitors, we have been able to successfully compete. However, the dynamics of the marketplace would be significantly altered if several of these providers were to combine with each other to offer a wider variety of products and services that more directly compete with our portfolio of products and services. If our competitors were to combine forces to create a single-source provider of multiple products and services to the markets in which we compete, we could experience increased price competition, lower demand for our products and services, and loss of market share, each of which could negatively affect our operating results. Significant system disruptions, loss of data center capacity or interruption of telecommunication links could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our business is heavily dependent upon highly complex data processing capability. Our ability to protect our data centers against damage or interruption from fire, flood, tornadoes, power loss, telecommunications or equipment failure or other disasters and events beyond our control is critical to our continued success. The online services we provide are dependent on links to telecommunication providers. We believe we have taken reasonable precautions to protect our data centers and telecommunication links from events that could interrupt our operations. Any damage to our data centers or any failure of our telecommunications links that causes loss of data center capacity or otherwise causes interruptions in our operations, however, could materially adversely affect our ability to quickly and effectively respond to our clients’ requirements, which could result in loss of their confidence, adversely impact our ability to attract new clients and force us to expend significant Company resources to repair the damage. Such events could result in decreased revenues, net income, and earnings per share. Each of our business segments is subject to substantial competition from a diverse group of competitors. New products and pricing strategies introduced by these competitors in the markets where our products and services are offered could decrease our market share or cause us to lower our prices in a manner that reduces our operating margin and the profitability of our products. Each of our business segments faces significant competition in all of its offerings and within each of its markets. See “Item 1. Business - Competition” in this Form 10-K. Our competitors for Marketing and data services include database marketing services providers, DMPs (Data Management Platforms), data companies and data distributors, some of whom may have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing or other resources allocated to serving customers. Other types of companies such as technology consultants, business process outsourcers, analytics consultants and management consultants participate to a lesser extent in portions of our market space. Additionally, we compete with the in-house IT departments of some of our existing and prospective clients that have developed or are developing the in-house capacity to perform the services we provide. Our competitors for IT Infrastructure management include managed IT and full-service cloud providers, and our competitors for Other services include a range of providers. Maintaining technological competitiveness in our data products, processing functionality, software systems and services, continually improving our current processes, and developing and introducing new products and services are necessary to maintain our competitive position. If we fail to do so, we could lose clients to current or future competitors, which could result in decreased revenues, net income and earnings per share. The resources we allocate to each market in which we compete vary, as do the number and size of our competitors across these markets. These competitors may be in a better position to develop new products and pricing strategies that more quickly and effectively respond to changes in customer requirements in these markets. Some of our competitors may choose to sell products or services competitive to ours at lower prices by accepting lower margins and profitability, or may be able to sell products or services competitive to ours at lower prices given proprietary ownership of data, technical superiority or economies of scale. Such introduction of competent, competitive products, pricing strategies or other technologies by our competitors that are superior to or that achieve greater market acceptance than our products and services could adversely affect our business. In such event, we could experience a decline in market share and be forced to reduce our prices, resulting in lower profit margins for the Company. 16 Engagements with certain clients, particularly those with long-term, fixed price agreements, may prove to be more costly than anticipated, thereby adversely impacting future operating results. The pricing and other terms of our client contracts, particularly our long-term IT Infrastructure management agreements, are based on estimates and assumptions we make at the time we enter into these contracts. These estimates reflect our best judgments regarding the nature of the engagement and our expected costs to provide the contracted services and could differ from actual results. Any increased or unexpected costs or unanticipated delays in connection with the performance of these engagements, including delays caused by factors outside our control, could make these contracts less profitable or unprofitable, which would have an adverse effect on our profit margin. Our exposure to this risk increases generally in proportion to the scope of the client contract and is higher in the early stages of such a contract. In addition, a majority of our IT infrastructure management contracts contain some fixed-price, incentive-based or other pricing terms that condition our fee on our ability to meet defined goals. Our failure to meet a client’s expectations in any type of contract may result in an unprofitable engagement, which could adversely affect our operating results and result in future rejection of our products and services by current and prospective clients. The failure to recruit and retain qualified personnel could hinder our ability to successfully manage our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and operating results. Our growth strategy and future success depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain technical, client services, sales, consulting, research and development, marketing, administrative and management personnel. The complexity of our data products, processing functionality, software systems and services requires highly trained professionals. While we presently have a sophisticated, dedicated and experienced team of associates who have a deep understanding of our business and in many cases have been with Acxiom for decades, the labor market for these individuals has historically been very competitive due to the limited number of people available with the necessary technical skills and understanding, compensation strategies, general economic conditions and various other factors. As the business information and marketing industries continue to become more technologically advanced, we anticipate increased competition for qualified personnel. The loss or prolonged absence of the services of highly trained personnel like the Company’s current team of associates, or the inability to recruit and retain additional, qualified associates, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or operating results. Additionally, in recent years, we experienced significant changes in our executive leadership, including the appointment of a new Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Revenue Officer and Chief Product and Engineering Officer. Continuing or unexpected turnover in key leadership positions within the Company may adversely impact our ability to manage the Company efficiently and effectively, could be disruptive and distracting to management and may lead to additional departures of existing personnel, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial results and internal controls over financial reporting. Processing errors or delays in completing service level requirements could result in loss of client confidence, harm to our reputation and negative financial consequences. Processing errors, or significant errors and defects in our products, can be harmful to our business and result in increases in operating costs. Such errors may result in the issuance of credits to clients, re-performance of work, payment of damages, future rejection of our products and services by current and prospective clients and irreparable harm to our reputation. Likewise, the failure to meet contractual service level requirements or to meet specified goals within contractual timeframes could result in monetary penalties or lost revenue. Taken together, these issues could result in loss of revenue and decreases in profit margins as service and support costs increase. Data suppliers may withdraw data that we have previously collected or withhold data from us in the future, leading to our inability to provide products and services to our clients which could lead to a decrease in revenue and loss of client confidence. Much of the data that we use is either purchased or licensed from third-party data suppliers, and we are dependent upon our ability to obtain necessary data licenses on commercially reasonable terms. We compile the remainder of 17 the data that we use from public record sources. We could suffer material adverse consequences if our data suppliers were to withhold their data from us, which could occur either because we fail to maintain sufficient relationships with the suppliers or if they decline to provide (or are prohibited from providing) such data to us due to legal, contractual, privacy, competition or other economic concerns. For example, data suppliers could withhold their data from us if there is a competitive reason to do so, if we breach our contract with a supplier, if they are acquired by one of our competitors, if legislation is passed restricting the use of the data they provide, or if judicial interpretations are issued restricting use of such data. Additionally, we could terminate relationships with our data suppliers if they fail to adhere to our data quality standards. If a substantial number of data suppliers were to withdraw or withhold their data from us, our ability to provide products and services to our clients could be materially adversely impacted, which could result in decreased revenues, net income and earnings per share. A failure in the integrity or a reduction in the quality of our data could harm our brand and result in a loss of revenue and an increase in legal claims. The reliability of our solutions is dependent upon the integrity and quality of the data in our database. A failure in the integrity of our database, whether inadvertently or through the actions of a third party, or a reduction in the quality of our data could harm us by exposing us to client or third-party claims or by causing a loss of client confidence in our solutions. We may experience an increase in risks to the integrity of our database and quality of our data as we move toward real-time, anonymous, consumer-powered data through our Enterprise Data-Management Platform. We must continue to invest in our database to improve and maintain the quality, timeliness and coverage of the data if we are to maintain our competitive position and retain our clients’ confidence. Failure to do so could result in significant harm to our reputation and growth prospects, as well as a loss of revenue. The loss of a contract upon which we rely for a significant portion of our revenues could adversely affect our operating results. Our ten largest clients represented approximately 38% of our revenue in fiscal year 2013, but no single client accounted for more than 10% of the revenues of the Company as a whole. The loss of, or decrease in revenue from, any of our significant clients for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and operating results. While a significant amount of our total revenue is currently derived from clients who have long-term contracts (defined as contracts with initial terms of two years or more), these contracts have been entered into at various times, and some of them are in the latter part of their terms and are approaching their originally scheduled expiration dates. In addition, many of these contracts contain provisions allowing the client to terminate prior to the end of the term upon giving advance notice. Even if renewed by these clients, the terms of the renewal contracts may not have a term as long as, or may otherwise be on terms less favorable than, the original contract. Revenue from clients with long-term contracts is not necessarily “fixed” or guaranteed as portions of the revenue from these clients is volume-driven or project-related. With respect to the portion of our business that is not under long-term contract, revenues are even less predictable and are almost completely volume-driven or project-related. Therefore, we must engage in continual sales efforts to maintain revenue stability and future growth with all of our clients or our operating results will suffer. If a significant client fails to renew a contract, or renews the contract on terms less favorable to us than before, our business could be negatively impacted if additional business were not obtained to replace or supplement that which was lost. Acquisition and divestiture activities may disrupt our ongoing business and may involve increased expenses, and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals contemplated at the time of a transaction, all of which could adversely affect our business and growth prospects. Historically, we have engaged in acquisitions to grow our business. To the extent we find suitable and attractive acquisition candidates and business opportunities in the future, we may continue to acquire other complementary businesses, products and technologies and enter into joint ventures or similar strategic relationships. While we believe we will be able to successfully integrate newly acquired businesses into our existing operations, there is no certainty that future acquisitions or alliances will be consummated on acceptable terms or that we will be able to integrate successfully the services, content, products and personnel of any such transaction into our operations. In 18 addition, any future acquisitions, joint ventures or similar relationships may cause a disruption in our ongoing business and distract our management. Further, we may be unable to realize the revenue improvements, cost savings and other intended benefits of any such transaction. The occurrence of any of these events could result in decreased revenues, net income and earnings per share. We have also divested assets in the past and may do so again in the future. As with acquisitions, divestitures involve significant risks and uncertainties, such as: · disruption of our ongoing business · reductions of our revenues or earnings per share · unanticipated liabilities, legal risks and costs · the potential loss of key personnel · distraction of management from our ongoing business · impairment of relationships with employees and clients as a result of migrating a business to new owners. Because acquisitions and divestitures are inherently risky, transactions we undertake may not be successful and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Our balance sheet includes significant amounts of goodwill. The impairment of a significant portion of this asset would negatively affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Goodwill is a significant portion of our total assets. Goodwill accounted for approximately 32% and 31% of the total assets on our balance sheet as of March 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. We may not realize the full carrying value of our goodwill. Goodwill is measured and tested for impairment on an annual basis in the first quarter of the Company’s fiscal year and between annual tests if an event occurs or changes in circumstances suggest a potential decline in the fair value of goodwill. A significant amount of judgment is involved in determining if an indicator or change in circumstances relating to impairment has occurred. If testing indicates that impairment has occurred, we would be required to write off the impaired portion of goodwill, resulting in a charge to our earnings. An impairment of a significant portion of goodwill could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Our business is directly dependent upon and correlates closely to the marketing levels and ongoing business activities of our existing clients. If material adverse developments in domestic and global economic and market conditions adversely affect our clients’ businesses, our business and results of operations could equally suffer. We serve clients around the world from locations in the Asia-Pacific region, Europe, South America and the United States. Our client list includes many of the largest organizations in these regions across most major industry verticals, including but not limited to financial, insurance and investment services, automotive, retail, telecommunications, high tech, healthcare, travel, entertainment, non-profit and government. Our results of operations are affected directly by the level of business activity of our clients, which in turn is affected by the level of economic activity in the industries and markets that they serve. Future widespread economic slowdowns in any of these markets, particularly in the United States, may negatively affect the businesses, purchasing decisions and spending of our clients and prospective clients, which could result in reductions in our existing business as well as our new business development. In the event of such widespread economic downturn, we will likely experience a reduction in current projects, longer sales cycles, deferral or delay of purchase commitments for our data products, processing functionality, software systems and services, and increased price competition, all of which could adversely affect our revenue and operating results. Our operations outside the U.S. are subject to risks that may harm the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. During the last fiscal year, we received approximately 13% of our revenues from business outside the United States. The cost of executing our business plan in non-U.S. locations is increasingly expensive. In those non-U.S. locations where legislation restricting the collection and use of personal data currently exists, less data is available and at a much higher cost. In some foreign markets, the types of products and services we offer have not been generally available and thus are not fully understood by prospective clients. Upon entering these markets, we have to educate and condition the markets, increasing the cost and difficulty of successfully executing our business plan 19 in these markets. Additionally, each of our foreign locations is generally expected to fund its own operations and cash flows, although periodically funds may be loaned or invested from the U.S. to the foreign subsidiaries. As a result of such loan or investment, exchange rate movements of foreign currencies may have an impact on our future costs of, or future cash flows from, foreign investments. We have not entered into any foreign currency forward exchange contracts or other derivative instruments to hedge the effects of adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Additional risks inherent in our non-U.S. business activities generally include, among others, potentially longer accounts receivable payment cycles, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, potentially adverse tax consequences, and greater difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights. The various risks which are inherent in doing business in the U.S. are also generally applicable to doing business outside of the U.S., but such risks may be exaggerated by factors normally associated with international operations, such as differences in culture, laws and regulations, especially restrictions on collection, management, aggregation and use of information. Failure to effectively manage the risks facing our non-U.S. business activities could materially adversely affect our operating results. In addition, when operating in foreign jurisdictions, we must comply with complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials, as well as anti-competition regulations. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, restrictions on our business conduct and on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries. Such violations could also adversely affect our reputation with existing and prospective clients, which could negatively impact our operating results and growth prospects. Our products and services have long and variable sales cycles due to their nature as enterprise-wide solutions. Failure to accurately predict these sales cycles could impair our ability to forecast operating results, which could result in a decline in the market value of our stock. When purchasing our products and services, our clients and prospects are often faced with a significant commitment of capital, the need to integrate new software and/or hardware platforms across multiple business units and other changes in company-wide operational procedures, all of which result in cautious deliberation and evaluation by prospective clients, longer sales cycles and delays in completing transactions. Additional delays result from the significant up-front expenses and substantial time, effort and other resources necessary of our clients to implement our solutions. For example, depending on the size of a prospective client’s business and its needs, a sales cycle can range from two weeks to nine months. Because of these longer sales cycles, revenues and operating results may vary significantly from period to period. As a result, it is often difficult to accurately forecast our revenues on a quarterly basis as it is not always possible for us to predict the quarter in which sales will actually be completed. This difficulty in predicting revenue, combined with the revenue fluctuations we may experience from quarter to quarter, can adversely affect and cause substantial fluctuations in our stock price. Third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling products or services. Additionally, third parties may infringe our intellectual property and we may suffer competitive injury or expend significant resources enforcing our rights. As our business is focused on data-driven results and analytics, we rely heavily on proprietary information technology, processes and other protectable intellectual property rights. From time to time, third parties may claim that one or more of our products or services infringe their intellectual property rights. We analyze and take action in response to such claims on a case-by-case basis. Any dispute or litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming due to the complexity of our technology and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation, which could divert the attention of our management and key personnel away from our business operations. A claim of intellectual property infringement could force us to enter into a costly or restrictive license agreement, which might not be available under acceptable terms or at all, or could subject us to significant damages or to an injunction against development and sale of certain of our products or services. 20 Our proprietary portfolio is comprised of various intellectual property rights, including patents, copyrights, database rights, source code, trademarks, trade secrets, know-how, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements. The extent to which such rights can be protected varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. If we do not enforce our intellectual property rights vigorously and successfully, our competitive position may suffer which could harm our operating results. Our brand and reputation are key assets and competitive strengths of our Company, and our business may be adversely affected if events occur that could cause us to be negatively perceived in the marketplace. For over 40 years Acxiom has been a thought leader and innovator in solving large-scale data problems and improving marketing results through high-performance, highly scalable, highly secured and privacy-compliant marketing solutions, with a track record of building strong technology and being an innovator in the marketing services space. Our brand and reputation earned over these years are key assets of the Company. Our ability to attract and retain clients is highly dependent upon the external perceptions of our level of data quality, our ability to deliver consumer insights, our enterprise data management and analytical capabilities, the competence of our current associate team, and our ability to meet contractual service level requirements in a timely manner. Negative perceptions or publicity regarding these matters could damage our reputation with prospective clients and the public generally. Adverse developments with respect to our industry may also, by association, negatively impact our reputation, or result in higher regulatory or legislative scrutiny. Any damage to our brand or reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Failure to recover significant, up-front capital investments required by certain client contracts could be harmful to the Company’s financial condition and operating results. Certain of our client contracts require significant investment in the early stages, which we expect to recover through billings over the life of the contract. These contracts may involve the construction of new computer systems and communications networks or the development and deployment of new technologies. Substantial performance risk exists in each contract with these characteristics, and some or all elements of service delivery under these contracts are dependent upon successful completion of the development, construction and deployment phases. Failure to successfully meet our contractual requirements under these contracts over their life increases the possibility that we may not recover our capital investments in these contracts. Failure to recover our capital investments could be detrimental to the profitability of the particular engagement as well as our operating results. The decline in direct mail business could occur more rapidly than we are able to offset with new revenues from investments in new products and services, which could, in turn, negatively impact revenue, net income and profit margins. Postal rate increases are expected to continue. The most recent increase in the U.S. was announced in October 2012 and became effective in 2013. As postal costs continue to rise, we expect to see increased pressure on direct mailers to leverage digital and other forms of online communication and to mail fewer pieces. The concerns of direct mailers are further exacerbated by the on-going financial struggles of the United States Postal Service (“USPS”). In recent years, the USPS has incurred significant financial losses and may, as a result, implement significant changes to the breadth or frequency of its mail delivery. In 2011, the USPS announced its plan to cut billions of dollars in operating costs by 2015 in hopes of returning to profitability. The proposed cuts have included, among other things, terminating Saturday mail delivery (subject to Congressional approval) and closing approximately half of its mail processing centers across the United States. The USPS recently announced the planned closure of 50 mail processing centers in 2013. These changes are expected to increase mail processing time and slow delivery frequency, which in turn may decrease marketers and the general public’s willingness to continue to use traditional mail, which may negatively impact our direct mail clients and thus the Company’s revenue derived from our traditional direct marketing business. Additionally, those in the traditional direct mail business, as well as the USPS, are under growing pressure to reduce their impact on the environment. It is uncertain at this time what either marketers or the USPS will do to lessen their impact. From a postal service perspective, the actions to be taken may involve changing certain aspects of mail service that would negatively affect direct marketers. From a marketer’s perspective, such actions could have the same effect as increased rates, thereby causing them to mail fewer pieces, which may negatively impact the Company’s revenue derived from our traditional direct marketing business. 21 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 