ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information included in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered in evaluating our business and future prospects. The risk factors described below represent what we believe are the most significant risk factors with respect to us and our business. In assessing the risks relating to our business, investors should also read the other information included in this Form 10-K, including our financial statements and the related notes and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation – Cautionary Statement about Forward-Looking Statements.” A substantial or extended decline in natural gas and oil prices would have a material adverse effect on us. In the first half of 2008, natural gas and oil prices were at or near their highest historical levels but have subsequently declined significantly. Natural gas prices declined in 2012 as compared with 2011. Further significant decline in natural gas and oil prices would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, our results of operations, our access to capital and the quantities of natural gas and oil that may be economically produced by us. A significant decrease in price levels for an extended period would negatively affect us in several ways including the following: · our cash flow would be reduced, decreasing funds available for capital investments employed to replace reserves or increase production; · certain reserves would no longer be economic to produce, leading to both lower proved reserves and cash flow; and · access to other sources of capital, such as equity or long-term debt markets, could be severely limited or unavailable. Consequently, our revenues and profitability would suffer. Lower natural gas and oil prices and/or increased development costs may cause us to record ceiling test write-downs. We use the full cost method of accounting for our natural gas and oil operations. Accordingly, we capitalize the cost to acquire, explore for and develop natural gas and oil properties. Under the full cost accounting rules of the SEC, the capitalized costs of natural gas and oil properties – net of accumulated depreciation, depletion and amortization, and deferred income taxes – may not exceed a “ceiling limit” on a country-by-country basis. This is equal to the present value of estimated future net cash flows from proved natural gas and oil reserves, discounted at 10%, plus the lower of cost or fair value of unproved properties included in the costs being amortized, net of related tax effects. These rules generally require pricing future natural gas and oil production at the unescalated natural gas and oil prices in effect at the end of each fiscal quarter, including the impact of derivatives qualifying as cash flow hedges, utilizing the average price in the 12-month period prior to the end of each fiscal quarter. The average price for this period is defined as the unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month within such period, unless prices were defined by contractual arrangements, excluding escalations based upon future conditions. These rules also require a write-down if the ceiling limit is exceeded. Once a write-down is taken, it cannot be reversed in future periods even if natural gas and oil prices increase. For the year ended December 31, 2012, we incurred a ceiling test write-down of $1,939.7 million which resulted in an operating loss for our company for 2012. If natural gas and oil prices decline below levels utilized in our ceiling limit test as of December 31, 2012 and/or operating costs, development costs, transportation costs or basis differentials increase, a write-down may occur, which would adversely impact our results of operation and financial condition. Using the first-day-of-the-month prices of natural gas for the first two months of 2013 and NYMEX strip prices for the remainder of 2013, as applicable, the prices required to be used to determine the ceiling limit could result in a ceiling test write-down in 2013. Our level of indebtedness and the terms of our financing arrangements may adversely affect operations and limit our growth. As of December 31, 2012, we had total indebtedness of $1,669.4 million, with no borrowings under our revolving credit facility. At February 15, 2013, we had long-term indebtedness of $1,709.6 million, including borrowings of $40.2 million under our revolving credit facility. We currently expect to utilize the borrowing availability under our revolving 26 credit facility in order to fund a portion of our capital investments in 2013. See also our risk factor headed “We may have difficulty financing our planned capital investments which could adversely affect our growth,” below. The terms of our various financing agreements, including but not limited to the indentures relating to our outstanding senior notes, our revolving credit facility and the master lease agreement relating to our drilling rigs and our other equipment leases, which we collectively refer to as our “financing agreements,” impose restrictions on our ability and, in some cases, the ability of our subsidiaries to take a number of actions that we may otherwise desire to take, including one or more of the following: · incurring additional debt, including guarantees of indebtedness; · creating liens on our assets; and · selling all or substantially all of our assets. Our level of indebtedness and off-balance sheet obligations, and the covenants contained in our financing agreements, could have important consequences for our operations, including: · requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to required payments, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow for working capital, capital investments and other general business activities; · limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital investments, acquisitions and general corporate and other activities; · limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and · detracting from our ability to successfully withstand a downturn in our business or the economy generally. Our ability to comply with the covenants and other restrictions in our financing agreements may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic and financial conditions. If we fail to comply with the covenants and other restrictions, it could lead to an event of default and the acceleration of our obligations under those agreements. We may not have sufficient funds to make such payments. If we are unable to satisfy our obligations with cash on hand, we could attempt to refinance such debt, sell assets or repay such debt with the proceeds from a public offering of securities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flow to pay the interest on our debt, to meet our lease obligations, or that future borrowings, equity financings or proceeds from the sale of assets will be available to pay or refinance such debt or obligations. The terms of our financing agreements may also prohibit us from taking such actions. Factors that will affect our ability to raise cash through a public offering, a refinancing of our debt or a sale of assets include financial market conditions and our market value and operating performance at the time of such offering or other financing. We cannot assure you that any such proposed offering, refinancing or sale of assets can be successfully completed or, if completed, that the terms will be favorable to us. We may have difficulty financing our planned capital investments, which could adversely affect our growth. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience substantial capital investment and working capital needs as a result of our drilling program. Our planned capital investments for 2013 are expected to exceed the net cash generated by our operations under current natural gas prices. We expect to borrow under our revolving credit facility to fund capital investments that are in excess of our net cash flow and cash on hand. Our ability to borrow under our revolving credit facility is subject to certain conditions. As of December 31, 2012, we were in compliance with the borrowing conditions of our revolving credit facility. If we are not in compliance with the terms of our revolving credit facility in the future or if the lenders under our revolving credit facility are unable to fulfill their commitments, we may not be able to borrow under the revolving credit facility to fund our capital investments. We also cannot be certain that other financing will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. In the event additional capital resources are unavailable, we may curtail our drilling, development and other activities or be forced to sell some of our assets on an untimely or unfavorable basis. Any such curtailment or sale could have a material adverse effect on our results and future operations. Natural gas and oil prices are volatile. Volatility in natural gas and oil prices can adversely affect our results and the price of our common stock. This volatility also makes valuation of natural gas and oil producing properties difficult and can disrupt markets. Natural gas and oil prices have historically been, and are likely to continue to be, volatile. In recent years, there has been a significant decline in natural gas prices as evidenced by NYMEX natural gas prices ranging from a high of $13.58 per MMBtu in 2008 to a recent low of $1.91 per MMBtu in April 2012. The prices for natural gas and oil are subject to 27 wide fluctuation in response to a number of factors, including: · relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for natural gas and oil; · market uncertainty; · worldwide economic conditions; · weather conditions; · import prices; · political conditions in major oil producing regions, especially the Middle East; · actions taken by OPEC; · competition from other sources of energy; and · economic, political and regulatory developments. Historically we have also experienced price volatility as a result of locational differentials for our production from the Arkoma Basin and East Texas, which at any time may further widen due to pipeline or other constraints. Price volatility makes it difficult to project the return on exploration and development projects involving our natural gas and oil properties and to estimate with precision the value of producing properties that we may own or propose to acquire. In addition, unusually volatile prices often disrupt the market for natural gas and oil properties, as buyers and sellers have more difficulty agreeing on the purchase price of such properties. Our results of operations may fluctuate significantly as a result of, among other things, variations in natural gas and oil prices and production performance. In recent years, natural gas and oil price volatility has become increasingly severe. The recent adoption of financial reform legislation could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with our business which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act was passed by Congress and subsequently signed into law. The new legislation required the Commodities Futures Trading Commission, or the CFTC, and the SEC to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the new legislation within 360 days from the date of enactment. The CFTC has proposed regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets. The financial reform legislation may also require us to comply with margin requirements and with certain clearing and trade execution requirements in connection with our derivative activities. At this time it is not possible to predict whether or when the CFTC will adopt those rules or include comparable provisions in its rulemaking under the new legislation or how those rules will apply to us. The financial reform legislation may also require the counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to separate entities, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparties, and such developments may affect the business relationships we have with those counterparties. The new legislation and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts, increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties and limit our access to the capital necessary to grow our business. If, as a result of the legislation and regulations, we are no longer able to use derivatives as we have in the past, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital investments. Our revenues could also be adversely affected if a consequence of the legislation and regulations is lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Working interest owners of some of our properties may be unwilling or unable to cover their portion of development costs, which could change our exploration and development plans. Some of our working interest owners may have difficulties obtaining the capital needed to finance their activities, or may believe that estimated drilling and completion costs are excessive. As a result, these working interest owners may choose not to participate in certain wells or be unable or unwilling to pay their share of well costs as they become due. These actions could cause us to change our development plans for the affected properties. 28 Although our estimated natural gas and oil reserve data is independently audited, our estimates may still prove to be inaccurate. Our reserve data represents the estimates of our reservoir engineers made under the supervision of our management. Our reserve estimates are audited each year by Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc., or NSAI, an independent petroleum engineering firm. In conducting its audit, the engineers and geologists of NSAI study our major properties in detail and independently develop reserve estimates. NSAI’s audit consists primarily of substantive testing, which includes a detailed review of major properties that account for approximately 93% of present worth of our total proved reserves. NSAI’s audit process consists of sorting all fields by descending present value order and selecting the fields from highest value to descending value until the selected fields account for more than 80% of the present worth of our reserves. The properties in the bottom 20% of the total present worth are not reviewed in the audit. The fields included in approximately the top 93% present value as of December 31, 2012 accounted for approximately 95% of our total proved reserves and approximately 98% of our proved undeveloped reserves. In the conduct of its audit, NSAI did not independently verify the data we provided to them with respect to ownership interests, oil and natural gas production, well test data, historical costs of operation and development, product prices, or any agreements relating to current and future operations of the properties and sales of production. NSAI has advised us that if, in the course of its audit, something came to its attention that brought into question the validity or sufficiency of any such information or data, NSAI did not rely on such information or data until it had satisfactorily resolved any questions relating thereto or had independently verified such information or data. On January 17, 2013, NSAI issued its audit opinion as to the reasonableness of our reserve estimates for the year ended December 31, 2012, stating that our estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves are, in the aggregate, reasonable and have been prepared in accordance with Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers. Natural gas and oil reserves cannot be measured exactly. Our estimate of natural gas and oil reserves requires extensive judgments of reservoir engineering data and projections of cost that will be incurred in developing and producing reserves and is generally less precise than other estimates made in connection with financial disclosures. Our reservoir engineers prepare our reserve estimates under the supervision of our management. Reserve estimates are prepared for each of our properties annually by the reservoir engineers assigned to the asset management team to which the property is assigned. The reservoir engineering and financial data included in these estimates are reviewed by senior engineers who are not part of the asset management teams and our Manager – Capital Budgeting & Reserves, who is the technical person primarily responsible for the preparation of our reserve estimates, and has over ten years of experience in petroleum engineering, including the estimation of oil and natural gas reserves. He reports to our Senior Vice President – Corporate Development, who has more than 31 years of experience in reservoir engineering, including the estimation of oil and natural gas reserves in multiple basins, both in the United States and internationally. On our behalf, the Senior Vice President – Corporate Development engages NSAI, a worldwide leader of petroleum property analysis for industry and financial organizations and government agencies, to independently audit our proved reserves estimates as discussed in more detail below. The financial data included in the reserve estimates are also separately reviewed by our accounting staff. Following these reviews and the audit, the reserve estimates are submitted by our Senior Vice President – Corporate Development, to our Chief Executive Officer for his review and approval prior to the presentation to our Board of Directors. NSAI reports the results of its reserve audit to the Board of Directors with whom final authority over the estimates of our proved reserves rests. We incorporate many factors and assumptions into our estimates including: · expected reservoir characteristics based on geological, geophysical and engineering assessments; · future production rates based on historical performance and expected future operating and investment activities; · future oil and natural gas prices and quality and locational differentials; and · future development and operating costs. Although we believe our assumptions are reasonable based on the information available to us at the time we prepare our estimates, our actual reserves could vary considerably from estimated quantities of proved natural gas and oil reserves (in the aggregate and for a particular geographic location), production, revenues, taxes and development and operating expenditures. In addition, our estimates of reserves may be subject to downward or upward revision based upon production history, results of future exploration and development, prevailing natural gas and oil prices, severance taxes, operating and development costs and other factors. In 2012, our reserves were revised downward by 2,088.2 Bcfe, which was primarily an effect of the low natural gas price environment encountered during the 2012 year and was also a result of downward performance revisions. In 2011, our reserves were revised upward by 33.7 Bcfe, primarily due to improved performance in our Marcellus Shale properties, partially offset by downward performance revisions in our East Texas, Arkoma and Fayetteville properties and downward price revisions due to a comparative price decrease in the average 2011 price from the average 2010 price. In 2010, our reserves were revised upward by 309.6 Bcfe, primarily due to improved performance in our Fayetteville Shale properties and upward price revisions due to a comparative price increase in the average 2010 price from the average 2009 price, partially offset by downward performance revisions in our East Texas 29 properties. Because we review our reserve projections for every property at the end of every year, any material change in a reserve estimate is included in subsequent reserve reports. Finally, recovery of undeveloped reserves generally requires significant capital investments and successful drilling operations. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 821 Bcfe of our estimated proved reserves were undeveloped. Our reserve data assume that we can and will make these expenditures and conduct these operations successfully, which may not occur. Please read “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Cautionary Statement about Forward-Looking Statements” in Item 7 of Part II of this Form 10-K for additional information regarding the uncertainty of reserve estimates. If we fail to find or acquire additional reserves, our reserves and production will decline materially from their current levels. The rate of production from natural gas and oil properties generally declines as reserves are depleted. Unless we acquire additional properties containing proved reserves, conduct successful exploration and development activities, successfully apply new technologies or identify additional behind-pipe zones or secondary recovery reserves, our proved reserves will decline materially as reserves are produced. Future natural gas and oil production is, therefore, highly dependent upon our level of success in acquiring or finding additional reserves. Our drilling plans for the Fayetteville Shale play and Marcellus Shale play are subject to change. As of December 31, 2012, we had drilled and completed 2,874 operated wells relating to our Fayetteville Shale play and 76 operated wells relating to our Marcellus Shale play. At year-end 2012, after the exclusion of our acreage in the traditional Fairway and the approximately 153,000 net federal acres we hold in the Ozark Highlands Unit, approximately 80% of our leasehold acreage in the Fayetteville Shale was held by production. Approximately 10% of our leasehold acreage in the Marcellus Shale was held by production at year-end 2012. Our drilling plans are flexible and are dependent upon a number of factors, including the extent to which we can replicate the results of our most successful wells in addition to the natural gas and oil commodity price environment. The determination as to whether we continue to drill wells in our operating areas may depend on any one or more of the following factors: · our ability to determine the most effective and economic fracture stimulation; · our ability to transport our production to the most favorable markets; · material changes in natural gas prices (including regional basis differentials); · changes in the costs to drill, complete or operate wells and our ability to reduce drilling risks; · the extent of our success in drilling and completing horizontal wells; · the costs and availability of oilfield personnel services and drilling supplies, raw materials, and equipment and services; · success or failure of wells drilled in similar formations or which would use the same production facilities; · receipt of additional seismic or other geologic data or reprocessing of existing data; · the extent to which we are able to effectively operate our own drillings rigs; · availability and cost of capital; or · the impact of federal, state and local government regulation, including any increase in severance taxes. We continue to gather data about our prospects in our operating areas, and it is possible that additional information may cause us to alter our drilling schedule or determine that prospects in some portion of our acreage position should not be pursued at all. If we fail to drill all of the wells that are necessary to hold our acreage, the initial lease terms could expire, which would result in the loss of certain leasehold rights. Leases on approximately 268,902 net acres of our Fayetteville Shale acreage will expire in the next three years if we do not drill successful wells to develop the acreage or otherwise take action to extend the leases, of which 153,863 net acres are held on federal lands. Approximately 59,162 net acres of our Marcellus Shale acreage will expire in the next three years if we do not drill successful wells to develop the acreage or otherwise take action to extend the leases. As 30 discussed above under “Our drilling plans for the Fayetteville Shale play and Marcellus Shale play are subject to change,” our ability to drill wells depends on a number of factors, including certain factors that are beyond our control. With the exception of the Ozark Highlands Unit, which is federally leased, the current rules in Arkansas relating to the Fayetteville Shale provide that each drilling unit would consist of a governmental section of approximately 640 acres and operators are permitted to drill up to 16 wells per drilling unit for each unconventional source of supply. In Pennsylvania, the location of our Marcellus Shale acreage, there are currently no rules establishing requirements for drilling units. However, current rules in Arkansas may change and rules may be implemented in Pennsylvania that could impair our ability to drill or maintain our acreage position. In addition, other E&P operator drilling activity could impair our ability to drill and maintain acreage positions. To the extent that any field rules prevent us from successfully drilling wells in certain areas, we may not be able to drill the wells required to maintain our leasehold rights and our leasehold investments could be lost. If our Fayetteville Shale and Marcellus Shale drilling programs fail to produce our projected supply of natural gas, our investments in our gas gathering operations could be lost. In addition, our commitments for transportation on third-party pipelines and gathering systems could make the sale of our natural gas uneconomic, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Through December 31, 2012, we had invested approximately $1,038 million in our gas gathering system built for the Fayetteville Shale play and approximately $203 million in our gas gathering system built for the Marcellus Shale play. To the extent necessary to gather our production, we may make further substantial investments in the expansion of our gas gathering systems. Our gas gathering business will largely rely on natural gas sourced from our operations. Our marketing subsidiary has also entered into multiple firm transportation agreements relating to natural gas volumes produced from our Fayetteville Shale play as well as a number of firm transportation and gathering agreements relating to the Marcellus Shale play. As of December 31, 2012, our aggregate demand charge commitments under these firm transportation agreements and gathering agreements were approximately $2.8 billion. If our Fayetteville Shale and Marcellus Shale drilling programs fail to produce significant supplies of natural gas, our investments in our gas gathering operations could be lost, and we could be forced to pay demand or other charges for transportation on pipelines and gathering systems that we would not be using. These events could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our exploration, development and drilling efforts and our operation of our wells may not be profitable or achieve our targeted returns. Exploration, development, drilling and production activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that no commercially productive reservoirs will be discovered. We invest in property, including undeveloped leasehold acreage that we believe will result in projects that will add value over time. However, we cannot assure you that all prospects will result in viable projects or that we will not abandon our initial investments. Additionally, there can be no assurance that leasehold acreage acquired by us will be profitably developed, that new wells drilled by us in prospects that we pursue will be productive or that we will recover all or any portion of our investment in such leasehold acreage or wells. Drilling for natural gas and oil may involve unprofitable efforts, not only from dry wells but also from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net reserves to return a profit after deducting drilling, operating and other costs. In addition, wells that are profitable may not achieve our targeted rate of return. Our ability to achieve our target PVI results is dependent upon the current and future market prices for natural gas and oil, costs associated with producing natural gas and oil and our ability to add reserves at an acceptable cost. We rely to a significant extent on seismic data and other advanced technologies in identifying leasehold acreage prospects and in conducting our exploration activities. The seismic data and other technologies we use do not allow us to know conclusively prior to acquisition of leasehold acreage or drilling a well whether natural gas or oil is present or may be produced economically. The use of seismic data and other technologies also requires greater pre-drilling expenditures than traditional drilling strategies. In addition, we may not be successful in implementing our business strategy of controlling and reducing our drilling and production costs in order to improve our overall return. The cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is often uncertain, and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of a project. Further, our drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of numerous factors, including unexpected drilling conditions, title problems, pressure or irregularities in formations, equipment failures or accidents, adverse weather conditions, environmental and other governmental requirements and the cost of, or shortages or delays in the availability of, drilling rigs, equipment and services. 31 The success of our New Ventures projects is subject to drilling and completion technique risks and enhanced recovery methods. Our drilling results may not meet our expectations for reserves or production and the value of our undeveloped New Venture acreage could decline. Many of our operations involve utilizing the latest drilling and completion techniques as developed by ourselves and our service providers in order to maximize cumulative recoveries and therefore generate the highest possible returns. Risks that we face while drilling include, but are not limited to, landing our wellbore in the desired drilling zone, staying in the desired drilling zone while drilling horizontally through the formation, running our casing the entire length of the wellbore, and being able to run tools and other equipment consistently through the horizontal wellbore. Risks that we face while completing our wells include, but are not limited to, being able to fracture stimulate the planned number of stages, being able to run tools the entire length of the wellbore during completion operations, and successfully cleaning out the wellbore after completion of the final fracture stimulation stage. We may inject water into formations on some of our properties to increase the production of oil, natural gas and associated liquids or employ other enhanced recovery methods in our operations. The additional production and reserves, if any, attributable to the use of enhanced recovery methods are inherently difficult to predict. If our enhanced recovery methods do not allow for the extraction of oil, natural gas and associated liquids in a manner or to the extent that we anticipate, we may not realize an acceptable return on our investments in such projects. In addition, if proposed legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing become law, the cost of some of these enhanced recovery methods could increase substantially. Ultimately, the success of drilling and completion techniques and enhanced recovery methods can only be evaluated over time as more wells are drilled and production profiles are established over a sufficiently long time period. If our drilling results are less than anticipated or we are unable to execute our drilling program because of capital constraints, lease expirations, limited access to gathering systems and takeaway capacity, and/or oil, natural gas and NGL prices decline, the return on our investment for a particular project may not be as attractive as we anticipated and the value of our undeveloped acreage could decline in the future. Our financial condition and results of operation could be adversely affected by legislative and regulatory initiatives in the United States and Canada relating to hydraulic fracturing that could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays or prevent us from realizing the value of undeveloped acreage. We utilize hydraulic fracturing in our E&P operations as a means of maximizing the productivity of our wells. It is an essential and common practice in the oil and gas industry used to stimulate production of oil, natural gas, and associated liquids from dense subsurface rock formations. The knowledge and expertise in fracturing techniques we have developed through our operations in the Fayetteville Shale play are being utilized in our other operating areas, currently including our Marcellus Shale acreage and in the future expected to also include our exploration program in New Brunswick, Canada. Successful hydraulic fracturing techniques are also expected to be critical to the development of our recently announced unconventional horizontal oil play targeting the LSBD formation in Arkansas and Louisiana. Hydraulic fracturing involves using water, sand, and certain chemicals to fracture the hydrocarbon-bearing rock formation to allow the flow of hydrocarbons into the wellbore. In our Fayetteville Shale and Marcellus Shale plays, the fracturing fluids we use are comprised of over 99.9% water and sand. The remaining 0.1% is comprised of small quantities of additives which contain chemical compounds such as hydrochloric acid, phosphoric acid, glutaraldehyde and sodium chloride which is used in common household products. In the past few years, there has been an increased focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing practices in the United States and Canada. In the United States, hydraulic fracturing is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions but there has recently been a number of regulatory initiatives at the federal and local levels as well as by other state agencies. The EPA has asserted federal regulatory authority over certain hydraulic fracturing activities involving diesel under the Safe Drinking Water Act and has begun the process of drafting guidance documents related to this newly asserted regulatory authority. In addition, the EPA issued final rules effective as of October 15, 2012 that subject oil and gas operations (production, processing, transmission, storage and distribution) to regulation under the NSPS and NESHAPS programs. The EPA final rules also include NSPS standards for completions of hydraulically fractured gas wells. These standards include the REC techniques developed in the EPA's Natural Gas STAR program. The standards would be applicable to newly drilled and fractured wells as well as existing wells that are refractured. Further, the final regulations under NESHAPS include MACT standards for those glycol dehydrators and storage vessels at major sources of hazardous air pollutants not currently subject to MACT standards. Based on our current operations and practices, management believes, such newly promulgated rules 32 will not have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows but these matters are subject to inherent uncertainties and management’s view may change in the future. In October 2011, the EPA also announced a schedule for development of standards for disposal of wastewater produced from shale gas operations to POTWs. The regulations will be developed under the EPA's Effluent Guidelines Program under the authority of the Clean Water Act. The EPA anticipates issuing the proposed rules in 2014. In addition to the EPA’s efforts, legislation has been introduced before Congress, called the Fracturing Responsibility and Awareness of Chemicals Act, to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. There are also certain governmental reviews either underway or being proposed that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing practices. A number of federal agencies are analyzing, or have been requested to review, a variety of environmental issues associated with hydraulic fracturing. The EPA has commenced a study of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and groundwater, and while initial results were expected to be available by late 2012 and final results by 2014, to date the EPA has not released any results from the study. In addition, the U.S. Department of Energy is conducting an investigation into practices the agency could recommend to better protect the environment from drilling using hydraulic fracturing completion methods. Also, the U.S. Department of the Interior is considering disclosure requirements or other mandates for hydraulic fracturing on federal lands. Certain states in which we operate have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could impose more stringent permitting, public disclosure, waste disposal and well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations or otherwise seek to ban fracturing activities altogether. In addition to state laws, local land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, may restrict or prohibit the performance of well drilling in general and/or hydraulic fracturing in particular. In the event state, local, or municipal legal restrictions are adopted in areas where we are currently conducting, or in the future plan to conduct operations, we may incur additional costs to comply with such requirements that may be significant in nature, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development, or production activities, and perhaps even be precluded from the drilling and/or completion of wells. In the Province of New Brunswick in Canada there are presently no hydraulic fracturing regulations, however the provincial government has been working on a new comprehensive regulatory framework that is expected to be released to the public in late 2013. Increased regulation and attention given to the hydraulic fracturing process could lead to greater opposition, including litigation, to oil and natural gas production activities using hydraulic fracturing techniques. Additional legislation or regulation could also lead to operational delays or increased operating costs in the production of oil, natural gas, and associated liquids including from the development of shale plays, or could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing. The adoption of additional federal, state or local laws or the implementation of regulations regarding hydraulic fracturing could potentially cause a decrease in the completion of new oil and gas wells, increased compliance costs and time, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We incur substantial costs to comply with government regulations, especially regulations relating to environmental protection, and could incur even greater costs in the future. Our exploration, production, development and gas gathering and marketing operations are regulated extensively at the federal, state and local levels. We have made and will continue to make large expenditures in our efforts to comply with these regulations, including environmental regulation. The natural gas and oil regulatory environment could change in ways that might substantially increase these costs. Hydrocarbon-producing states regulate conservation practices and the protection of correlative rights. These regulations affect our operations and limit the quantity of hydrocarbons we may produce and sell. In addition, at the U.S. federal level, the FERC regulates interstate transportation of natural gas under the NGA. Other regulated matters include marketing, pricing, transportation and valuation of royalty payments. As an owner or lessee and operator of natural gas and oil properties, an owner of gas gathering systems, a sand mine and provider of pressure pumping services, we are subject to various federal, state and local regulations relating to discharge of materials into, and protection of, the environment. These regulations may, among other things, impose liability on us for the cost of pollution clean-up resulting from operations, subject us to liability for pollution damages, and require suspension or cessation of operations in affected areas. Changes in or additions to regulations regarding the protection of the environment could significantly increase our costs of compliance, or otherwise adversely affect our business. 33 One of the responsibilities of owning and operating natural gas and oil properties is paying for the cost of abandonment. We may incur significant abandonment costs in the future which could adversely affect our financial results. Natural gas and oil drilling and producing operations involve various operating and environmental risks that could result in substantial losses. Our operations are subject to all the risks normally incident to the operation and development of natural gas and oil properties, the drilling of natural gas and oil wells and the sale of natural gas and oil, including but not limited to encountering well blowouts, cratering and explosions, pipe failure, fires, formations with abnormal pressures, uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, brine or well fluids, hydrocarbon drainage from adjacent third-party production, release of contaminants into the environment and other environmental hazards and risks and failure of counterparties to perform as agreed. We maintain insurance against many potential losses or liabilities arising from our operations in accordance with customary industry practices and in amounts that we believe to be prudent. However, our insurance does not protect us against all operational risks. For example, we generally do not maintain business interruption insurance. Additionally, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. These risks could give rise to significant costs not covered by insurance that could have a material adverse effect upon our financial results. Our ability to sell our natural gas and oil and/or to receive market prices for our production may be adversely affected by constraints or interruptions on gathering systems, pipelines, processing and transportation systems owned or operated by us or others. The marketability of our natural gas and oil production depends in part on the availability, proximity, and capacity of gathering systems, processing and pipeline and other transportation systems owned or operated by third parties. The lack of available capacity in these systems and facilities can result in the shutting-in of producing wells, the delay or discontinuance of development plans for our properties, or lower price realizations. Although we have some contractual control over the transportation and gathering of our production, material changes in these business relationships could materially affect our operations. Federal and state regulation of natural gas and oil production, processing and transportation, tax and energy policies, changes in supply and demand, pipeline pressures, damage to or destruction of pipelines, infrastructure or capacity constraints, and general economic conditions could adversely affect our ability to produce, gather, and transport natural gas. In particular, if drilling in the Marcellus Shale play continues to be successful, the amount of natural gas being produced by us and others could exceed the capacity of, and result in strains on, the various gathering, and transportation systems, pipelines, and other infrastructure available in these areas. It will be necessary for additional infrastructure, pipelines, gathering, and transportation systems and processing facilities to be expanded, built or developed to accommodate anticipated production from these areas. Because of the current economic climate, certain processing or pipeline and other gathering or transportation projects that might be, or are being, considered for these areas may not be developed timely or at all due to lack of financing, construction and permitting delays, permitting costs, well fees proposed in Pennsylvania, or other constraints. In addition, capital and other constraints could limit our ability to build or access intrastate gathering and transportation systems necessary to transport our production to interstate pipelines or other points of sale or delivery. In such event, we might have to delay or discontinue development activities or shut in our wells to wait for sufficient infrastructure development or capacity expansion and/or sell production at significantly lower prices than those quoted on NYMEX, which would adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. A portion of our production in any region may be interrupted, or shut in, from time to time for numerous reasons, including as a result of weather conditions, accidents, loss of pipeline, gathering, processing or transportation system access or capacity, field labor issues or strikes, or we might voluntarily curtail production in response to market conditions. If a substantial amount of our production is interrupted at the same time, it could temporarily adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. Shortages of oilfield equipment, services, supplies, raw materials and qualified personnel could adversely affect our results of operations. The demand for qualified and experienced field personnel to drill wells and conduct field operations, geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other professionals in the natural gas and oil industry can fluctuate significantly, often in correlation with natural gas and oil prices, causing periodic shortages. These factors also cause significant increases in costs for equipment, services, personnel and raw materials (such as sand, cement, manufactured proppants and other materials utilized in the provision of the oilfield services). Higher natural gas and oil prices generally stimulate increased 34 demand and result in increased prices for drilling rigs, crews and associated supplies, equipment, services and raw materials. In addition, our E&P operations also require local access to large quantities of water supplies and disposal services for produced water in connection with our hydraulic fracture stimulations due to prohibitive transportation costs. We cannot be certain when we will experience shortages or price increases, which could adversely affect our profit margin, cash flow and operating results or restrict our ability to drill wells and conduct ordinary operations. Our business could be adversely affected by competition with other companies. The natural gas and oil industry is highly competitive, and our business could be adversely affected by companies that are in a better competitive position. As an independent natural gas and oil company, we frequently compete for reserve acquisitions, exploration leases, licenses, concessions, marketing agreements, equipment and labor against companies with financial and other resources substantially larger than those we possess. Many of our competitors may be able to pay more for exploratory prospects and productive natural gas and oil properties and may be able to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than we can. Our ability to explore for natural gas and oil prospects and to acquire additional properties in the future will depend on our ability to conduct operations, to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in this highly competitive environment. In addition, many of our competitors have been operating in some of our core areas for a much longer time than we have or have established strategic long-term positions in geographic regions in which we may seek new entry. We have made significant investments in our oilfield service operations, including our drilling rig, pressure pumping equipment and sand mine operations in order to meet certain of our oilfield service and resource needs, lower our costs and increase of the efficiency of our operations. If our exploration and production activities are curtailed or disrupted, these operations may adversely impact our results of operations. In addition, our continued expansion of these operations may adversely impact our relationships with third-party providers. We have made significant investments in order to meet certain of our oilfield services needs, including establishing our own drilling rig operations and sand mine. In 2012, we invested in and commenced providing pressure pumping services for a portion of our operated wells. We may make additional investments to expand these operations in the future. Our drilling operations are conducted through our subsidiary, DeSoto Drilling, Inc., which had 371 employees as of December 31, 2012. We have lease commitments for 14 drilling rigs and related equipment with respect to DDI's operations and we also own one drilling rig. In addition to these rigs, we have contracts with third-party drilling companies for use of their rigs which may not be terminable without penalty. In 2009, another of our subsidiaries, DeSoto Sand, L.L.C., began operating our first sand mine in Arkansas in order to meet a portion of our sand needs for the Fayetteville Shale play. We also purchase sand for use in our operations from various third parties, including certain of our oilfield service providers. Our drilling rig and sand mine operations may have an adverse effect on our relationships with our existing third-party service and resource providers or our ability to secure these services and resources from other providers. We may also compete with third-party providers for qualified personnel, which could adversely affect our relationships with such providers. If the operations of our drilling rigs and/or sand mine are disrupted or our existing third-party providers discontinue their relationships with us, we may not be able to secure alternative services or resources on a timely basis, or at all. Even if we are able to secure alternative services or resources, there can be no assurance that such services or resources will be of equivalent quality or that pricing and other terms will be favorable to us. If we are unable to secure third-party services or resources or if the terms are not favorable to us, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We depend upon our management team and our operations require us to attract and retain experienced technical personnel. The successful implementation of our business strategy and handling of other issues integral to the fulfillment of our business strategy depends, in part, on our experienced management team, as well as certain key geoscientists, geologists, engineers and other professionals employed by us. The success of our technological initiatives that support our business enterprise is also dependent upon attracting and retaining experienced technical professionals. The loss of key members of our management team or other highly qualified technical professionals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. If natural gas prices decline further, our failure to hedge the remaining portion of our expected 2013 production could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. To reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the prices of natural gas and oil, historically, we have entered into hedging arrangements with respect to a significant portion of our expected production. As of February 15, 2013, we had NYMEX commodity price hedges on approximately 29% of our targeted 2013 natural gas production as compared to approximately 35 30% for 2010, 52% for 2011 and 47% for 2012. Our price risk management activities increased natural gas sales by $617.6 million in 2012, increased natural gas sales by $315.6 million in 2011 and increased natural gas sales by $290.3 million in 2010. If natural gas prices decline in 2013, unless we enter into additional hedging arrangements, our revenues would be adversely affected. To the extent that we engage in additional hedging activities in the current price environment, we would not realize the benefit of price increases above the levels of the hedges. In addition, such transactions may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which: · our production is less than expected; · there is a widening of price differentials between delivery points for our production and the delivery point assumed in the hedge arrangement; · the counterparties to our futures contracts fail to perform the contracts; or · a sudden, unexpected event materially impacts natural gas or oil prices. Finally, future market price volatility could create significant changes to the hedge positions recorded on our financial statements. We refer you to “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” in Item 7A of Part II of this Form 10-K. Certain U.S. federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and production may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. The elimination of certain key U.S. federal income tax deductions currently available to oil and natural gas exploration and production companies has been proposed in recent years. These changes have included, among other proposals: · the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and natural gas properties; · the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs; · the elimination of the deduction for certain domestic production activities; and · an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear whether these or similar changes will be enacted. The passage of these or any similar changes in federal income tax laws to eliminate or postpone certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and development could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our ability to produce natural gas could be impaired if we are unable to acquire adequate supplies of water for our drilling operations or are unable to dispose of the water we use at a reasonable cost and within applicable environmental rules. Our inability to locate sufficient amounts of water, or dispose of or recycle water used in our E&P operations, could adversely impact our operations, particularly with respect to our Fayetteville Shale and Marcellus Shale operations, and also possibly our recently announced unconventional oil play targeting the LSBD formation in Arkansas and Louisiana. Moreover, the imposition of new environmental initiatives and regulations could include restrictions on our ability to conduct certain operations such as hydraulic fracturing or disposal of waste, including, but not limited to, produced water, drilling fluids and other wastes associated with the exploration, development or production of natural gas. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, or the FWPCA, imposes restrictions and strict controls regarding the discharge of produced waters and other natural gas and oil waste into navigable waters. Permits must be obtained to discharge pollutants to waters and to conduct construction activities in waters and wetlands. The FWPCA and similar state laws provide for civil, criminal and administrative penalties for any unauthorized discharges of pollutants and unauthorized discharges of reportable quantities of oil and other hazardous substances. Many state discharge regulations and the Federal National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System general permits issued by the EPA prohibit the discharge of produced water and sand, drilling fluids, drill cuttings and certain other substances related to the natural gas and oil industry into coastal waters. The EPA has also adopted regulations requiring certain natural gas and oil exploration and production facilities to obtain permits for storm water discharges. Compliance with environmental regulations and permit requirements governing the withdrawal, storage and use of surface water or groundwater necessary for hydraulic fracturing of wells may increase our operating costs and cause delays, interruptions or termination of our operations, the extent of which cannot be predicted, all of which could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. 36 Climate change and global warming concerns could lead to additional regulatory measures that may adversely impact our operations and financial condition. Our E&P operations are currently focused on the production of hydrocarbons from unconventional sources, and we expect to continue to focus on such resources in the future. The production of hydrocarbons from these sources has an energy intensity that is a number of times higher than that for production from conventional sources. Therefore, we expect that the carbon dioxide, or CO2, intensity of our production will increase in the long-term. We actively seek to reduce the environmental impact of our operations by pursuing more efficient use of natural resources such as hydrocarbons and water and managing and mitigating the emissions to the air, water and soil, with a focus on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. With the efforts of our Health, Safety and Environmental Department, we have been able to plan for and comply with environmental initiatives without materially altering our operating strategy. We anticipate making increased expenditures of both a capital and expense nature as a result of the increasingly stringent laws relating to the protection of the environment that will increase the cost of equipment, materials and services whose production utilizes hydrocarbons. We may also face increased competition from alternative energy sources that do not rely on hydrocarbons. We cannot predict with any reasonable degree of certainty our future exposure concerning such matters and if we are unable to find solutions to environmental initiatives as they arise, including reducing the CO2 emissions for our existing projects, we may have additional costs as well as compliance and operational risks with respect to our existing operations as well as facing difficulties in pursuing new projects. Our certificate of incorporation and, bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for someone to either acquire us or affect a change of control. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, together with any stockholder rights plan that we might have in place, could discourage an effort to acquire us, gain control of the company, or replace members of our executive management team. These provisions could potentially deprive our stockholders of opportunities to sell shares of our common stock at above-market prices. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 