RISK FACTORS The risks described below could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of future operations. These risks are not the only ones we face. Our business operations could also be impaired by additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us, or that we currently consider immaterial. We must continue to improve and gain market acceptance of our technology in order to remain competitive and grow. The complexity and uncertainty regarding the development of new technologies affects our business greatly, as does the loss of market share through competition, or the extent and timing of market acceptance of innovative products and technology. We are also potentially affected by: o longer sales cycles for our solutions due to the nature of that technology as an enterprise-wide solution; o the introduction of competent, competitive products or technologies by other companies; o changes in the consumer and/or business information industries and markets; o the ability to protect our proprietary information and technology or to obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms; and o the impact of changing legislative, judicial, accounting, regulatory, cultural and consumer environments in the geographies where our products and services are deployed. Maintaining technological competitiveness in our data products, processing functionality, software systems and services is key to our continued success. Our ability to continually improve our current processes and to develop and introduce new products and services is essential in order to maintain our competitive position and meet the increasingly sophisticated requirements of our clients. If we fail to do so, we could lose clients to current or future competitors, which could result in decreased revenues, net income and earnings per share. 6 Changes in legislative, judicial, regulatory, cultural or consumer environments relating to consumer privacy or information collection and use may affect our ability to collect and use data. There could be a material adverse impact on our business due to the enactment of legislation or industry regulations, the issuance of judicial interpretations, or simply a change in customs, arising from the increasing public concern over consumer privacy issues. In the U.S., both the Congress and the legislatures of various states have recently focused their attention on matters concerning the collection and use of consumer data. In most of the non-U.S. locations in which we do business, legislation restricting the collection and use of personal data already exists. Restrictions could be placed upon the collection, management, aggregation and use of information, which could result in a material increase in the cost of collecting some kinds of data. It is also possible that we could be prohibited from collecting or disseminating certain types of data, which could in turn materially adversely affect our ability to meet our clients' requirements, potentially resulting in decreased revenues, net income, and earnings per share. We could experience a breach of the security of our computer systems. We operate extremely large, powerful and complex computer systems. Unauthorized third parties could attempt to gain entry to such systems for the purpose of stealing data or disrupting the systems. We believe that we have taken adequate measures to protect them from intrusion, but in the event that our efforts are unsuccessful we could suffer significant harm. General economic conditions and world events could result in a reduced demand for our products and services. As a result of the economic recession which began in 2001, we experienced a reduction in the demand for our products and services as our clients looked for ways to reduce their expenses. Although the economy has improved significantly, how our clients procure our products and services has changed in some instances. Many clients are negotiating their contracts through a contracts procurement representative rather than through their business leaders. In the face of increasing demands by clients for price reductions and discounts, we are challenged with pricing our products and services so as to be able to make reasonable profits. We likewise continue to be challenged with controlling our expenses, given that a significant portion of our costs are fixed. If we are not successful in meeting these challenges, we could suffer lower net income and earnings per share. In addition, world events such as the conflict in Iraq and the continuing threats of terrorism may have a negative impact upon the economy in general and upon our business as well, if our clients become hesitant to embark on discretionary spending programs. Data suppliers might withdraw data from us, leading to our inability to provide products and services. Much of the data that we use is either purchased or licensed from third parties. We compile the remainder of the data that we use from public record sources. We could suffer a material adverse effect if owners of the data we use were to withdraw the data from us. Data providers could withdraw their data from us if there is a competitive reason to do so, or if legislation is passed restricting the use of the data, or if judicial interpretations are issued restricting use of data. If a substantial number of data providers were to withdraw their data, our ability to provide products and services to our clients could be materially adversely impacted, which could result in decreased revenues, net income and earnings per share. Failure to attract and retain qualified associates could adversely affect our business. Competition for qualified technical, sales and other personnel is often intense, and we periodically are required to pay premium wages to attract and retain good associates. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to hire and retain sufficient qualified management, technical, sales and other associates necessary to conduct our operations successfully. 7 The nature and volume of our customer contracts may affect the predictability of our revenues. While approximately 74% of our total revenue is currently derived from client contracts with initial terms of at least two years, these contracts have been entered into at various times and therefore some of them are in the latter part of their terms and are approaching their originally scheduled expiration dates. Further, if renewed by the customer, the terms of the renewal contract may not have a term as long as, or may otherwise be on terms less favorable than, the original contract. Revenue from customers with long-term contracts is not necessarily "fixed" or guaranteed, however, as portions of the revenue from these customers is volume-driven or project-related. With respect to the portion of our business that is not under long-term contract, revenues are less predictable and are almost completely volume-driven or project-related. Therefore, we must engage in continual sales efforts to maintain revenue stability and future growth with these customers. In addition, if a significant customer fails to renew a contract, our business could be negatively impacted if additional business were not obtained to replace the business which was lost. Our operations outside the U.S. subject us to risks normally associated with international operations. We conduct business outside of the United States. During the last fiscal year, we received approximately 18% of our revenues from business outside the United States. In fiscal 2004 we completed the European acquisitions of Claritas Europe and Consodata S.A., and in fiscal 2005 we acquired ChinaLOOP in Shanghai, China. As part of our growth strategy we plan to continue to pursue opportunities outside the U.S. Accordingly, our future operating results could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include legislative, judicial, accounting, regulatory, political or economic conditions in a specific country or region, trade protection measures, and other regulatory requirements. In order to successfully expand non-U.S. revenues in future periods, we must continue to strengthen our foreign operations, hire additional personnel, and continue to identify and execute beneficial strategic alliances. To the extent that we are unable to do these things in a timely manner, our growth, if any, in non-U.S. revenues will be limited, and our operating results could be materially adversely affected. In general, each of our foreign locations is expected to fund its own operations and cash flows, although periodically funds may be loaned or invested from the U.S. to the foreign subsidiaries. Therefore, exchange rate movements of foreign currencies may have an impact on our future costs or on future cash flows from foreign investments. We have not entered into any foreign currency forward exchange contracts or other derivative instruments to hedge the effects of adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Additional risks inherent in our non-U.S. business activities generally include, among others, potentially longer accounts receivable payment cycles, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, potentially adverse tax consequences, and greater difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights. The various risks which are inherent in doing business in the United States are also generally applicable to doing business outside of the United States, and may be exaggerated by the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions due to differences in culture, laws and regulations. Loss of data center capacity or interruption of telecommunication links could adversely affect our business. Our ability to protect our data centers against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or other disasters is critical to our future. The on-line services we provide are dependent on links to telecommunication providers. We believe we have taken reasonable precautions to protect our data centers and telecommunication links from events that could interrupt our operations. Any damage to our data centers or any failure of our telecommunications links that causes interruptions in our operations could materially adversely affect our ability to meet our clients' requirements, which could result in decreased revenues,net income, and earnings per share. Failure to favorably negotiate or effectively integrate acquisitions or alliances could adversely affect our business. Recently our growth strategy has included growth through acquisitions and strategic alliances. While we believe we will be able to successfully integrate recently acquired businesses into our existing operations, there is no certainty that future acquisitions or alliances will be consummated on acceptable terms or that any acquired assets, data or businesses will be successfully integrated into our operations. Our failure to identify appropriate candidates, to negotiate favorable terms, or to successfully integrate future acquisitions and alliances into our existing operations could result in decreased revenues, net income and earnings per share. 8 Decline in value of investments could negatively impact us. Due to the general recession in the market that took place over the past few years, several of our investments in other ventures have declined and could continue to decline in value. While several of the investments have been written down accordingly, others could also be subject to future write-down in the event their values become impaired. Postal rate increases and disruptions in postal services could lead to reduced volume of business. The direct marketing industry has been negatively impacted from time to time during past years by postal rate increases. The last increase in the U.S. was in June 2002. While no further increases are expected until 2006, it is possible that increases could occur in 2005. Postal rate increases could force direct mailers to mail fewer pieces and to target their prospects more carefully. Additionally, the amount of direct mailings could be reduced in response to disruptions in and concerns over the security of the U.S. mail system, its global counterparts, and other delivery systems. Such responses by direct mailers could negatively affect us by decreasing the amount of processing services purchased from us, which could result in lower revenues, net income and earnings per share. Industry consolidations could result in increased competition for our products and services. The possibility of the consolidation or merger of companies who might combine forces to create a single-source provider of multiple services to the marketplace in which we compete could result in increased competition for us. We currently compete against numerous providers of a single service or product in several separate market spaces. (See the discussion below under "Competition.") Since we offer a larger variety of services than many of our current competitors, we have been able to successfully compete against them in most instances. However, the dynamics of the marketplace could be significantly altered if some of the single-service providers were to combine with each other to provide a wider variety of services. Processing errors or delays in completing service level requirements could result in negative financial consequences. Processing errors could result in the issuance of credits to clients, the re-performance of work, and/or the payment of damages. Likewise, the failure to meet contractual service level requirements or to meet specified goals with contractual timeframes could result in monetary penalties or lost revenue. ACXIOM'S BUSINESS Overview We integrate data, services and technology to create and deliver customer and information management solutions for many of the largest, most respected companies in the world. The core components of Acxiom's innovative solutions are Customer Data Integration (CDI) technology, data, database services, information technology ("IT") outsourcing, consulting and analytics, and privacy leadership. Founded in 1969, Acxiom is headquartered in Little Rock, Arkansas, with locations throughout the United States and Europe, and in Australia and China. Our sophisticated information management capabilities enable our clients to use information to improve their business decision- making processes and to effectively manage existing and prospective customer relationships, thereby positioning them to maximize the value of their customer relationships and increase their profits. Our solutions are customized to meet the specific needs of our clients and the industries in which they operate. We believe that we offer our clients the most technologically advanced, accurate and timely solutions available. Information Services Industry In today's technologically advanced and competitive business environment, companies are using vast amounts of customer, prospect and marketplace information to manage their businesses. The information services industry provides a broad range of products and 9 services designed to help companies manage customer relationships. Acxiom's combination of technology, services, and premier data content allow us to provide the Customer Information Infrastructure (CII) that enables our clients to efficiently access and manage information throughout the enterprise. We're doing this on an increasingly global scale as our clients ask us to provide the same services we've delivered in the U.S. to their global efforts. The ability to create global solutions was the driving motivation behind our recent acquisition of ChinaLOOP, which has provided us with a presence in China, as well as the acquisitions in fiscal 2004 of Claritas Europe and Consodata, which solidified our presence in the European market. Acxiom's services help our clients answer important business questions such as: o Who are our existing customers? o Who are our prospective customers? o Who are our most profitable customers? o What are the common traits of our existing customers? o What do our customers want and when do they want it? o How do we service our customers? o How should we price our products and services? o What distribution channels should we use? o What new products should we develop or what old products should we retire? We believe the current trends and dynamics of the information services industry will provide us with growth opportunities as discussed below. Information as an asset in Customer Relationship Management More and more companies are realizing that the various types of data they gather and maintain - customer, product, financial, sales and marketing - can be a competitive resource for acquiring and retaining customers, provided that the information is well maintained and optimized throughout the organization. Gone are the days when companies thought they could buy a piece of Customer Relationship Management (CRM) software and instantly have better relationships with their customers. Today, companies understand that CRM is a business strategy, not a piece of software, and that management of their information assets is one of the keys for turning the promises of CRM success into reality. In fact, Gartner, Inc., a leading international industry analytical, research and advisory firm, reported recently that without adequate resources to focus on data quality, an organization's CRM efforts will not be successful. Gartner reports that the key to enterprises being able to deal effectively with their customers is to know them - who their customers are, what they want and why they want it. It is also critical, says Gartner, to know how to use that information. The more enterprises know about their customers, the more they can do with that information to improve the likelihood of sales and improve the levels of service. In a recent report entitled "CRM Demands Data Cleansing" (Ted Friedman, Scott Nelson, and John Radcliffe, December 3, 2004), Gartner cites a case study in which a manufacturing industry company incorrectly labeled a subset of its large customers, which caused them to be overlooked in a market segment analysis. The resulting lack of interaction with that customer segment cost the manufacturer $5 million in revenue in one year. Customer Data Integration recognized as "central to success" in CRM Gartner reports that CRM projects usually require various organizations within a company to work together around a shared single view of the customer, and that without the right customer information at the right time, it's difficult to realize the goals a company has for its CRM efforts - regardless of company size, market leadership, or merger and acquisition history. Therefore, creating and leveraging a single customer view for operational, marketing and analytical purposes is critical to successfully target, acquire, develop and retain customers - the key goals for any customer-centric solution. That single customer view can only be obtained through customer data integration (CDI). Gartner goes on to state that CDI will remain a business imperative for most organizations, and that CEOs are demanding the single customer view that will make their customer-centric initiatives work. 10 CDI can best be described as the combination of the technology, processes and services needed to create and maintain an accurate, timely and complete view of the customer across multiple channels, business lines and, potentially, enterprises, where there are multiple sources of customer data in multiple application systems and databases. In different ways, both the real-time enterprise and business process fusion depend on having this "single view of the customer." The ability to successfully target, acquire, develop and retain customers depends on the availability, at the time and place of need, of high quality, comprehensive, up-to-date customer information and insight. CDI's critical role in CRM is reflected in one of Gartner's Strategic Planning Assumptions, which says that, through 2008, the creation of an accurate, timely and rich single view of the customer across channels and lines of business will be a key enabler for reducing costs, managing risk, and increasing revenue and profitability in customer-centric organizations. Customer recognition becoming a paramount concern How does a company know that the customer on the phone is the same one that was on its Web site one hour ago? Is it the same person, or is it just someone using that customer's computer? Gartner concludes that enterprises need to have an ID system that allows them to link all interactions with a customer quickly and accurately. Such a constant ID system will be necessary, says Gartner, to take advantage of an environment where technology is modified to that customer's desires and, in the process, enabling the enterprise's CRM system to have a chance to truly support them. If an enterprise cannot be sure of who the customer is, and how to link that customer to the database and profiles it has created, Gartner predicts that the enterprise's investments in CRM will be seriously compromised. Another application for Customer Recognition solutions is in a company's efforts to combat fraud and identity theft. As customer contact channels proliferate and data volumes continue to increase, the opportunity for fraudulent activity multiplies. Customer recognition capabilities are an important tool to verify that customers are who they say they are. As reports of instances of identity theft continue to increase, enterprise risk management has become a top concern for financial services firms. Increasing amounts of raw data to manage The combination of demographic shifts and lifestyle changes, the proliferation of new products and services, and the evolution of multiple marketing channels have made the information management process increasingly complex. Marketing channels now include cable and satellite television, telemarketing, direct mail, direct response, in-store point-of-sale, on-line services and the Internet. The multiplicity of these marketing channels has created more data and compounded the growth and complexity of managing data. Advances in computer and software technology have also unlocked vast amounts of customer data, which historically was inaccessible, further increasing the amount of existing data to manage and analyze. As these data resources expand and become more complex, it also becomes increasingly difficult to integrate all the fragmented, disparate and often outdated information. The challenge to obtaining accurate and complete customer data lies in obtaining, enhancing and integrating data from across an organization to form a single, comprehensive view of individual customers. Growth in technology partnering Companies are increasingly looking outside of their own organizations for help in managing the complexities of their information needs. The reasons for doing so include: o allowing a company to focus on its fundamental business operations o avoiding the difficulty of hiring and retaining scarce technical personnel o taking advantage of world-class expertise in particular specialty areas o benefiting from the cost efficiencies of outsourcing 11 o avoiding the organizational and infrastructure costs of building in-house capability o benefiting more from the latest technologies Evolution of one-to-one marketing Advances in information technology, fragmentation of the media, combined with the ever-increasing amounts of raw data and the changing household and population demographics in the United States, have spurred the transition from traditional mass media to targeted one-to-one marketing. One-to-one marketing enables the delivery of a customized message to a defined audience and the measurement of the response to that message. The Internet has rapidly emerged as an ideal one-to-one marketing channel. It allows marketing messages to be customized to specific consumers and allows marketers to make immediate modifications to their messages based on consumer behavior and response. In many cases, digital marketing can also accomplish these objectives far more cost effectively than existing marketing media. Competitive Strengths We believe we possess the following competitive strengths that allow us to benefit from the industry trends described above and offer solutions to the information needs of our clients: Ability to design, build and derive business intelligence from large-scale databases, leveraging our Customer Information Infrastructure grid technology and our Acquisition and Customer Marketing database framework Acxiom has extensive experience in designing, developing, managing and operating massively large-scale databases for some of the world's largest, most successful companies, including Allstate, CitiGroup, GE Finance, Federated Department Stores, IBM and Sears. Our state-of-the-art data centers, computing capacity and operating scale enable us to access and process vast amounts of raw data and cost effectively transform the data into useful information. We currently manage 2.2 petabytes of storage, which includes over 760 terabytes of database solutions. A terabyte is approximately one trillion bytes, and is the scale often used when measuring large computer storage. A petabyte is the equivalent of 1000 terabytes, or one quadrillion bytes. We provide a complete solution that starts with consulting, integrates data content, applies data management technology and delivers CRM applications to the desktop. Our open system environment allows our clients to use a variety of tools, and provides the greatest flexibility in analyzing data relationships. This open system environment also optimizes our clients' requirements for volume, speed, scalability and functional performance. To complement our historical database expertise, we have developed our Customer Information Infrastructure (CII), which includes a large collection of commodity servers working together in an internal network. CII provides our clients with a secure, high-performance, usage-based, on-demand computing solution where data is practically actionable upon receipt. CII's proven, grid-based solution provides the functions of a traditional computer such as storage, computations, security, and data management, with significantly faster performance and with much more efficiency. It enables high performance, unlimited scalability and maximum adaptability in a secure environment: Performance - The grid-based architecture uses commodity-based servers to replicate the performance of a supercomputer that would cost many times more. When clients need to increase their processing capability, we simply allocate an additional "node" or personal computer processor to the grid, rather than having to invest in another large, expensive computer. Jobs that could take up to eight hours on a mainframe can be completed in 20 minutes in the grid. Scalability - The grid-based architecture allows us to add additional storage as clients need it, thereby providing on-demand capacity. This enables our clients to store historical data for use in trending, modeling and analytics, creating more sophisticated and accurate models than ever before. The scalability works both ways; if less storage space is needed, we can scale back the amount of grid dedicated to a particular client. 12 Adaptability - The CII solution is comprised of a standard set of components and tools. Using these "plug and play" components, it is easier and faster to set up new, repeatable and powerful processes into CII. The standard framework can be easily configured for a specific client or industry as needed. Security - Our security objective within CII is that no Acxiom- or customer-owned intellectual property (i.e., data, software, or algorithms) stored in or in transit to/from the CII can be copied or moved outside the CII in a usable format without appropriate authentication and authorization. Grid technology works by breaking down large jobs into smaller, separate tasks, then assigning them to computers linked together in the grid. Large mainframe computers process jobs linearly, i.e., they must first complete one task before going on to the next. Grids, on the other hand, can process separate tasks simultaneously, thereby providing much faster results. Additional servers connected through the grid can be called into service as needed to assist during peak workload periods, thereby making the most of their combined available power. Utilization of the grid enables our clients to avoid multi-million dollar up-front investments in servers, resulting in significant cost savings. In addition, the grid enables us to offer our services to a broader range of clients, including companies whose processing needs are on a much smaller scale than that of our historical clientele. With CII, raw data can be turned into actionable, intelligent information much more quickly than with traditional mainframe processing. Fresh data can rapidly be incorporated into models and analytics. Clients can scale up or down as they need it, thereby providing greater flexibility than was ever possible in traditional environments. We provide both traditional batch marketing solutions as well as real-time solutions, both via our Acquisition and Customer Marketing database framework. We believe that through this framework -- which leverages large-scale databases, CII, InfoBase and AbiliTec -- Acxiom is leading the industry in a fundamental shift from traditional linear campaigns to continuous campaign management. We offer our clients weekly, daily and even real-time updates, thereby dramatically increasing the frequency with which they can execute marketing campaigns. The competitive advantage that may be gained by our clients is improved marketing offers that drive a greater response, in addition to increasing the timeliness of campaigns and the revenues generated. Through our real-time marketing solutions, clients are able to get a consistent and immediately available customer view and decision engine that helps them make effective, instantaneous marketing offers, based on comprehensive business rules, across all of their front-office applications. Before CII, technology was a dominant constraint on implementation and execution of customer-centric data management strategies, forcing trade-offs in speed, or efficiency of a customer management solution. With CII, the technology barriers and resource inefficiencies are virtually eliminated for our clients, thus allowing them to focus on obtaining true customer insight with virtually no processing or performance constraints. Currently, nearly all of our clients are having at least some work processed in the grid, and management is focused on rapidly moving as much customer processing to the grid as possible. Our industry-leading Customer Data Integration products and services We believe our Customer Data Integration capabilities, powered by AbiliTec, combined with the related real-time customer recognition software and infrastructure, is the leading solution for companies seeking to better integrate their customer data and manage their customer relationships. CRM involves analyzing, identifying, acquiring and retaining customers. Knowledge delivered directly and immediately to a desktop or customer point of contact in real time is critical to the CRM process. Acxiom's Customer Data Integration products and services are designed to fully meet these challenges for its clients. As the basic infrastructure for integrated CRM solutions, AbiliTec allows the linking of disparate databases across a client's business and makes possible personalized, real-time CRM at every customer touch-point. We believe that AbiliTec's unprecedented scope, accuracy and speed contributes to Acxiom being established as the Customer Data Integration leader, using AbiliTec both as an internal processing tool and as the enabler of the single customer view that drives true, one-to-one marketing. AbiliTec permits up-to-the-minute updating of consumer and business information with our data, thereby creating a new level of data accuracy within the industry. By applying this unique, patented technology, we are able to properly cleanse data and eliminate redundancies, update the data to reflect real-time changes, and combine our external data with our clients' internal data. 13 The financial benefits for our clients generated by faster processing times are multi-faceted. Our clients gain advantages from AbiliTec by: o Greatly improving the speed in which campaigns are brought to market in order to seize on opportunities more quickly. o Leveraging shorter turnaround times to increase the frequency of data warehouse updates. With AbiliTec, some Acxiom clients have moved from monthly to weekly updates, others from weekly to nightly, and some utilize the technology in an on-line transaction processing ("OLTP") mode to update their data continuously, as new information becomes available. o Basing marketing and other business decisions on more accurate data. In the world of customer or prospect data warehouses, fresher information equals more accurate information. Integration of correct names and addresses also ensures more accurate data is reflected for the customer or prospect. We also believe that AbiliTec enables our clients to better serve the consumer privacy preferences of their customers. Just as AbiliTec allows businesses to create a single view of their customers in real time for marketing purposes, it makes it much easier for businesses to allow their customers to access, correct and selectively opt-out their information, provide better safeguards around their customers' information, and facilitate the addition of information such as preference in time and manner of contact. Real-time customer recognition software and infrastructure Acxiom continues to expand its real-time multi-channel Customer Data Integration and customer recognition capabilities with products and services such as our Acquisition and Customer Marketing database solutions. This suite of software and infrastructure capabilities allows our clients, in real time, to integrate their existing databases together in ways that have previously been difficult or impossible. Our Customer Data Integration and customer recognition technologies allow our clients and us to integrate data directly into CRM applications, including: • Customer analysis • Campaign management • Interactive web pages • Point-of-sale • Call centers • Customer service automation • Direct mail • Sales force automation Secure delivery of information over the Internet or via private network, as opposed to traditional delivery through CD-ROM, floppy discs, tape cartridges or tapes, significantly reduces the turnaround time from days to minutes or sub-seconds and reduces the operating costs associated with extended processing and turnaround. Accurate and comprehensive data content We believe that we have the most comprehensive and accurate collection of United States consumer, property and telephone marketing data available from a single supplier. We believe we process more mailing lists than any company in the United States. Our Info- Base consumer database contains approximately 17 billion data elements, which we believe covers almost all households in the United States. Our real estate database, which includes most major United States metropolitan areas, covers approximately 70 million properties in a majority of the states. We believe our InfoBase TeleSource product represents the most comprehensive repository of accurate telephone number information for listed business and consumer telephone numbers in the United States and Canada. Our clients use this data to manage existing customer relationships and to target prospective customers. Acxiom's offerings in Europe are closely aligned with those in the U.S. The acquisitions of Claritas Europe and Consodata S.A. have significantly enhanced Acxiom's offerings in terms of data services and customer information throughout Europe. Acxiom provides 14 leading customer information in the seven European countries in which it now has physical operations, including the United Kingdom, France, The Netherlands, Germany, Spain, Portugal, and Poland. The customer information and segmentation offerings are similar to Acxiom's InfoBase in the U.S. and in the U.K. While there are some differences between InfoBase in the U.S. and the U.K. and differences country-to-country for the InfoBase equivalents that have been acquired with the Claritas Europe and Consodata acquisitions, the core value proposition to Acxiom clients remains the same regardless of location. In Australia, Acxiom is a leading supplier of consumer, business, telephone and property information for marketing purposes. Under a range of brand names, Acxiom's data products are used by major financial institutions, telecommunications companies and retailers to help them strengthen their customer relationships and grow their market share. Our clients use data from our databases to target prospective customers and strengthen relationships with their existing customers. Through our recent acquisition of ChinaLOOP, we hope to become one of the premier data providers in China. ChinaLOOP is a business intelligence, customer relationship management and data management company headquartered in China. It provides data, database management and data services to a number of Asian and international clients from its headquarters in Shanghai and additional operations in Beijing. ChinaLOOP's clients include a number of China-based and multi-national companies. Comprehensive IT Outsourcing Services We offer clients comprehensive, integrated information management solutions tailored to their specific needs. Our total solution approach is a competitive strength because it allows our clients to use a sole service provider for all of their information management needs. Our information technology solutions cover the computing requirements of our clients, ranging from full mainframe and midrange information processing centers to desktop applications. We currently operate several large mainframe and server data centers, manage numerous networks and host Internet applications. We offer information management services, primarily to clients in the United States, in the following areas: • Mainframe platform operations • Redundant infrastructure availability services • Client/server platform outsourcing • "Data Factory" reengineering to grid computing • Network management • Web hosting management Our information technology solutions help consumer-focused companies reduce costs, access leading-edge technology and resources, increase flexibility and minimize risk. Our outsourcing solutions include IT Infrastructure Outsourcing, Customer Relationship Management, Business Process Outsourcing, and Data Factory Transformation Outsourcing, powered by Acxiom's grid technology which enables our clients to serve their own customers better, faster and cheaper. Data-intensive companies are operating in an increasingly competitive marketplace that demands customer data be more accurate and complete, better decisions be made more quickly, new products be developed and brought to market faster, and information technology meet the needs of the business more readily. At the core of our Data Factory Transformation solution is our grid technology that is designed to help our clients reach a new level of competitiveness. Acxiom's solution combines what we believe to be the most advanced grid-enabled architecture available for data processing with our leading customer data management capabilities. Ability to attract and retain talent We believe our progressive culture allows us to attract and retain top associates, especially those in technology fields where critical technical skills are scarce. Our culture is based on core values that include leadership, teamwork, innovation and integrity. Our company goals include creating value for our associates, clients and stockholders. We strive to create value for our 15 associates by building a progressive work environment where we inspire, empower, challenge and recognize them. In addition to our culture, our extensive geographic presence, with locations in the United States, Europe, China and Australia, has enhanced our ability to attract talented associates. We have consistently been recognized for our leadership in a number of areas, including technical innovation and marketplace excellence, and we continued to receive such honors in 2004 and 2005. For our innovation in the use of grid-computing applications, we received the Data Warehousing Institute's 2004 Best Practices Award for "Radical Data Warehousing/Business Intelligence." We were also named as a finalist in the "Most Innovative Company" category by the 2004 American Business Awards for our continued development of grid computing systems for large commercial applications, as well as for our long-term contributions to protection of consumer privacy. We were also a finalist in the 2004 American Business Awards. Acxiom leaders were invited to speak at a number of prestigious events, including the Grid Today 04 conference in Philadelphia, regarding our grid technology. Publications as diverse as Fortune, Database Trends & Applications, and Internet Retailer have recognized our leadership role in the new grid-based technology. Acxiom was named to the 2004 CIO 100 ranking of top companies that best demonstrate organizational agility, and we were recognized by CRM magazine as a Data Quality Market Leader. Significant awards announced since January 2004: o Acxiom was named a finalist in the 2005 Computerworld Honors program based on an independent case study for grid computing o CIO 100 - CIO magazine ranked Acxiom among the CIO "Agile 100" for demonstrating measurable results in the use of IT to enable and support organizational agility o CRM Data Quality Market Leader Award - CRM magazine honored Acxiom for leading the data quality market from a CRM standpoint o Top 100 Best Places to Work in Information Technology - Acxiom made Computerworld magazine's list in 2004, following appearances in 2001 and 2000 o InformationWeek 500 - Acxiom made this list in InformationWeek magazine , a revenue-based ranking of the most innovative corporate users of information technology o DM Review 100 - DM Review magazine ranked Acxiom in 2004 among the top companies in the business intelligence industry as chosen by DM Review readers, following appearances in 2003, 2002, 2001 and 2000 o TDWI Best Practices in Data Warehousing "Radical Data Warehousing/Business Intelligence" Award - Data Warehousing Institute (TDWI) honored Acxiom in 2004 for innovation in the use of grid-computing applications o Check Point Customer Excellence Award - Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. Bestowed this award for cutting-edge security practices Growth Strategy Using our competitive strengths, we are pursuing a strategy that includes the following initiatives: Reinforce our leadership in building Customer Data Integration products and services, fully implement our Customer Information Infrastructure powered by grid technology, and leverage our information management, consulting and analytics capabilities 16 Our primary initiatives are AbiliTec-driven Customer Data Integration solutions, combined with our traditional consulting and analytical services. We provide strategic consulting to our clients regarding creation and measurement of CRM programs and the related infrastructure, particularly in the financial, banking and retail communities, and in the privacy arena. We have developed our Customer Information Infrastructure grid technology in order to provide our clients with the fastest, most accurate and current customer information possible. This revolutionary solutions architecture has greatly increased our processing efficiency, making warehousing and accessing vast data stores far easier and more affordable than ever before. This technology enables us to provide our clients with what we believe to be the industry's most accurate and cost-effective means to integrate their customer and prospect data across the entire organization. We then provide the capability to further enhance and add decision-making intelligence to that data with external data, including our InfoBase data products. In Europe, all of these Customer Data Integration processes can take place in a traditional batch mode or in real time over the Internet or via private network. Our technologies are available to a broad range of clients that desire to better manage their existing and prospective customer relationships and to integrate disparate databases. We are continually developing AbiliTec-enabled solutions to improve data quality, streamline production, reduce costs and increase the efficiency of our clients' marketing and database initiatives. We are marketing AbiliTec, InfoBase, and our Acquisition and Customer Marketing database services through our internal sales organization as well as through our strategic alliances, including leading CRM software solution providers such as IBM and SAS Institute, and systems integrators such as Accenture and IBM. Each of these Acxiom products can be integrated directly into the decision systems offered by our strategic alliance partners to enhance their unique value proposition to their customers. This alliance partner strategy provides the potential for us to extend the scope of our services in our existing markets and expand our client base. We have developed the Opticx® process which allows clients to rapidly determine their data quality and the potential return on their investment in our Customer Data Integration solutions. Encourage the sales and marketing of all of our products and services under the "One Acxiom" concept, thereby capturing cross- selling opportunities The "One Acxiom" concept reflects our commitment to more fully leverage and blend our core components - Customer Data Integration technology, data, database services, IT outsourcing, consulting and analytics, and privacy leadership - to provide our clients the most innovative and effective customer and information management solutions in the marketplace today. Our established client base is primarily composed of Fortune 1000 companies. These clients use a single product or service or a combination of multiple products and services. Our consultative approach, comprehensive set of services and products and long-standing client relationships, combined with the increasing information needs of our clients, provide us with a significant opportunity to offer our existing client base new and enhanced services and products. Further penetrate existing and new client industries, and continue development of applications for fraud detection, risk management, privacy and security Our clients expect information management solutions tailored to the needs of their particular industry. We have developed specific knowledge for the industries we serve, including the financial services, insurance, information services, direct marketing, media, retail, technology, telecommunications, automotive, and pharmaceuticals/healthcare industries. We expect to continue to expand our presence in these industries as well as to penetrate other industries as their information management needs increase. Other industries which we believe are undergoing changes that will increase the need for data and information management services include the e-commerce, packaged goods and entertainment sectors. We also believe our products and services complement and are adaptable to the identity verification systems of prospective clients in industries or businesses concerned about security management, including travel, special events management and building security. We believe that in the post-September 11 environment, certain governmental agencies have a need for the type of data integration solutions enabled by AbiliTec in the areas of fraud detection and identity verification. Since September 11, 2001, we have been actively pursuing government contract work in this regard, and continue to view this sector as a potential source of new business in the future. 17 Continue to expand data content We believe that the depth, breadth and quality of our data differentiates us in the marketplace. We continually enhance our databases by adding new data through multiple sources and increasing the accuracy of the data through the use of AbiliTec. Expanding our data content offerings enables us to grow existing client relationships, capture new clients and enter new industries. Data content also represents an attractive business model because we can repackage it into multiple formats or sell it through various distribution channels, at a minimal incremental cost. Continue to pursue international opportunities, and expand our products and services so that our multinational clients can utilize Acxiom offerings globally In fiscal 2004 we significantly expanded our European operations through the acquisitions of Claritas Europe and Consodata S.A., two of Europe's premier data providers with offices in the United Kingdom, France, The Netherlands, Germany, Spain, Portugal and Poland. Previously, since 1986, we had a smaller presence in Europe, primarily in. As a result of the 2004 acquisitions, Acxiom is now well-positioned to help its international clients improve their marketing effectiveness and prospecting results in the European markets. Among the existing clients of the acquired companies are some of the world's most successful companies in the financial services, automotive, retail, consumer durables, mail order, publishing, telecommunications, utilities, and travel and leisure industries. We expect to maintain these relationships, as well as acquire additional multinational clients doing business in Europe. Similar to Acxiom's InfoBase products in the U.S., the combined products of our European operations provide the largest source of consumer lifestyle databases and behavioral information available to marketers across Europe. We intend to focus on the integration of these two new businesses into the "One Acxiom" business model, and to continue to look for additional opportunities to expand our product and service offerings in the European marketplace. With the recent acquisition of ChinaLOOP, a pioneering business intelligence, customer relationship management and data management company based in Shanghai, China, we hope to be in a position to take advantage of the world's fastest growing economy. We believe that China offers strong growth opportunities for both domestic and multi-national companies, and that those companies will increasingly seek to gain market share through marketing intelligence and technology-based information solutions. ChinaLOOP, which was among the first information management services companies to operate in China, provides data, database management and data services to a number of Asian and international clients from its headquarters in Shanghai and additional operations in Beijing. Representative clients include a number of China-based and multi-national companies, including Diageo, Financial Times, Nokia, Total, Citroen and Johnson & Johnson. Since 1999, we have been offering our products and services in Australia and New Zealand, including Customer Relationship Management services, data warehousing, merge purge, analytics, InfoBase data, TeleAppend, Best Address, and verification. Information concerning the revenues and assets of our foreign operations is included in Note 17 of the Notes to Financial Statements which are attached to this Annual Report as part of the Financial Supplement. Continue to seek alliances and acquisitions Acxiom partners with many of the world's leading systems integrators and hardware and software companies, to create and distribute the best customer and information management solutions for the market. Our partners include such companies as Accenture, D&B, DWL, Equitec, Hewlett Packard, IBM Corporation, Moore Wallace Response Marketing Services, SAS Institute, TransUnion and USADATA. To add value for our global clients, we have also developed alliances with delivery partners and third-party providers in the various regions in which we do business. Being particularly mindful of privacy and consumer protection concerns within the different geographies, partner organizations are evaluated on their understanding of privacy issues, compliance and guarantees of the legality of provided data. These alliances support our ability to process and maintain data in local languages and to convert local languages into English when necessary. 18 We will continue to seek alliance opportunities with companies that can complement or expand our business by offering unique data content, strategic services, or market presence in a new industry. We will also consider acquisitions as opportunities may arise. We continually review our mix of businesses to determine that we have the correct combination of people, products, services and other resources to allow us to best serve our clients. Expand our capabilities to provide more integrated campaigns, including digital marketing and mid-tier marketing services capabilities In the past fiscal year, we acquired SmartDM Holdings, Inc. and affiliated companies Smart DM, Inc. and SmartReminders.com, Inc. SmartDM, a full-service direct marketing company headquartered in Nashville, Tennessee, with approximately 90 employees, offers comprehensive direct marketing services and information management for mid-sized companies. We believe that the acquisition of SmartDM will enhance our ability to provide the sophisticated information management capabilities to mid-sized companies that we have previously been able to offer only to larger clients. SmartDM offers four main channels of direct marketing information services, including direct mail, e-mail, Customer Relationship Management and data management. These channels provide clients with a fully integrated information management platform that allows companies and organizations to transform data into useful business knowledge designed to enable them to make effective marketing decisions. Management believes that the combination of Acxiom's information management capabilities with SmartDM's ability to integrate e-mail, direct mail and call center marketing activities will provide an entree into the market comprised of mid-sized companies. Representative clients of SmartDM include Wyndham Hotels Worldwide, Gaylord Entertainment, Harrah's Entertainment, the American Red Cross, Comcast-Spectacor, the National Basketball Association and Bass Pro Shops. With the acquisitions of SmartDM, followed by the acquisition of Digital Impact after the end of the fiscal year, we have greatly expanded our e-mail marketing and analytical capabilities, as well as added hosted web applications and messaging technology infrastructures to our range of services, the combination of which will allow us to better deliver integrated campaign management, analytics, and e-messaging services focused on strategic, data-driven marketing results. See additional discussion under "Recent Developments" below, and in Note 3 of the Notes to Financial Statements which are attached to this Annual Report as part of the Financial Supplement. Business Segments We report segment information consistent with the way we internally manage our operations to assess performance and to allocate resources. The 2004 European acquisitions significantly increased our international operations. This increase accentuated different economic environments, market maturity and operational needs of the international operations while reducing the differentiation between the existing Services segment and the Data and Software Products segment. In the first quarter of fiscal 2005, we restructured our internal operations and, as a result, changed the presentation of our segment information. The new organization is better able to assess the operational performance and resource allocation between U.S. and international operations. The Company's business segments consist of U.S. Services and Data, International Services and Data and IT Management. The Services and Data segments for both the US and International segments substantially consist of consulting, database and data warehousing, list processing services, the Company's data content and software products. IT Management includes information technology outsourcing and facilities management for data center management, network management, client/server management and other complementary IT services. We evaluate the performance of the segments based on segment operating income, which excludes certain gains, losses and nonrecurring items. Certain information technology outsourcing and facilities management revenue is accounted for in both the IT Management segment and the U.S. Services and Data segment where the client is billed. These revenues are eliminated in consolidation. Information concerning the financial results of our business segments and the total assets of each business segment is included in Note 20 of the Notes to Financial Statements and in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition which are attached to this Annual Report as part of the Financial Supplement. 19 U.S. Services and Data Our U.S. Services and Data segment provides solutions that integrate and manage customer, consumer and business data using our information management skills and technology, as well as our InfoBase data products. We believe that AbiliTec, which provides Customer Data Integration capabilities, together with our Acquisition and Customer Marketing database solutions, positions us for a greater share of the growing demand for integrated customer management solutions. Our Customer Information Infrastructure grid technology, AbiliTec linking technology, Acquisition and Customer Marketing database solutions, InfoBase data, and intellectual property for building and managing large-scale database environments gives our clients the ability to reach their customers more rapidly, efficiently and accurately and to target their sales efforts accordingly. We build customer and information management solutions for our clients in the following service areas: o Marketing database and data warehouse design consulting o Data integration o Data warehouse/database management and delivery o Marketing applications o List processing Our AbiliTec-enabled solutions allow us to more effectively integrate and manage data. We believe that AbiliTec is the leading software solution for companies seeking to integrate and manage their customer data and customer relationships. It allows the linking of separate, disparate databases across a client's business, provides unprecedented speed and accuracy and permits real-time updating of consumer and business information. AbiliTec is a software product that is licensed to our clients and sold through the following channels: enterprise, database, channel partner, service bureaus and direct marketing. Our AbiliTec-enabled solutions deliver more accurate, accelerated data solutions that help businesses reduce costs, gain a better understanding of their customer base, and build loyal, trust-based customer relationships. Based upon our knowledge of the industry and our competitors' products, we believe our InfoBase and Personicx® products, as well as our Fraud Management Platform products, represent the industry's most comprehensive and accurate relationship management, risk management, and operational efficiency data product offerings. They are available either on a stand-alone basis or integrated into our customized service offerings. With the recent acquisitions of SmartDM and Digital Impact, we have added e-mail marketing capabilities as well as hosted web applications and messaging technology infrastructures to our range of services, which will allow us to better deliver integrated campaign management, analytics, and e-messaging services focused on strategic data-driven marketing results. The data that we use is obtained from publicly available information, public record information, summarized customer information, customer contact information, and self-reported information. We utilize multiple data sources from each category of data including, but not limited to, published telephone directories, directory service information, voter registrations, county assessor and recorder information, questionnaires, warranty cards, inferred preference information, catalog buyer behavior information, and product registration. Accuracy is one of our primary concerns, and we have processes in place to maintain a high level of quality in our products. International Services and Data Our International Services and Data segment provides customer data, data management, risk management and business process outsourcing solutions to clients across the globe. With the acquisition of Claritas Europe, Consodata and ChinaLOOP, we believe that we are well-positioned to meet businesses' needs in these geographies and beyond. We are currently helping clients solve business problems in the following locations: Canada, Mexico, Puerto Rico, Brazil, Colombia, Chile, United Kingdom, France, Germany, Poland, Portugal, The Netherlands, Spain, China, Australia and New Zealand. International offerings include: 20 o Customer Management Solutions - including marketing databases, customer recognition, interactive solutions and decision support tools o Customer Data Integration Solutions - including advanced AbiliTec (information-based) customer data integration and traditional data hygiene/matching o Data - including a wide range of lifestyle data, specialist data, e.g., suppression solutions, data collection solutions, segmentation solutions, interactive/online data, online access to Acxiom data, GIS data/solutions o Consulting & Analytics and Privacy Leadership consulting o Business Contact Center - based in the UK, an integrated call center and fulfillment house serving all media channels Our global vision is to provide market-leading customer data and data management solutions locally, while also helping our clients solve the challenges of multi-country customer information management and data integration.. We intend to meet this challenge by cleansing, integrating, hosting and enhancing client customer data from a single architecture. Using postal standards from the postal authorities of more than 260 countries, we anticipate that these services will fully leverage our Customer Information Infrastructure and superior AbiliTec-driven data integration capabilities. Also incorporated are our InfoBase content, our Personicx segmentation solutions and the expansive data assets of new international markets. IT Management Data center outsourcing enables our clients to focus on their core business while Acxiom manages their technical infrastructure needs. We provide the IT services for large systems, midrange and client/server platforms and networks. Some of these services are part of Acxiom's total offering of Customer Information Infrastructure (CII) - the "One Acxiom" concept _ combining data, technology, marketing services and IT management to enable companies to maximize the value of customer relationships. Our data center outsourcing services give our customers a secure, high-performance network and computing environment, supported by experienced IT professionals. The benefits include: o Maximization of value from IT assets and information system staff o Computing and network capacity driven by client demand o Highly scalable computing and network environments o "24 x 7" system availability Our IT solutions cover the computing needs of our clients, ranging from full mainframe and midrange information processing centers to desktop applications. Acxiom currently operates several large, high-availability data centers, manages high-speed networks, and hosts Internet e-commerce applications. Acxiom's IT services have the added specialty of supporting the very large databases needed by companies who sell to consumers. Acxiom has developed a storage-centric IT infrastructure to manage the massive amounts of data these companies require. Our leadership in grid-based Customer Information Infrastructure provides customers with a flexible and scalable approach to on-demand access, management and updating of customer data for advanced analytics and database marketing. Acxiom provides the infrastructure and managed services that power our customer and information management solutions. We offer technology services in the following areas: • Mainframe platform outsourcing • Midrange and client/server platform outsourcing • Network management • Web hosting management 21 • "Data Factory" reengineering into the grid environment • Redundant infrastructure availability services Clients Our client base consists primarily of Fortune 1000 companies in the financial services, insurance, information services, direct marketing, publishing, retail and telecommunications industries. Some of our major clients include Allstate, American Express, Bank of America, Baxter International, Capital One, CitiGroup, City of Chicago, DeLuxe, Discover Card, eFunds, Federated Department Stores, GE Finance, General Motors, Guideposts, HSBC, IBM, Information Resources, Inc., JP Morgan Chase, MBNA America, Philip Morris, Primedia, Providian Financial, R.L. Polk, RR Donnelley, Sears, Sprint and TransUnion. Our 10 largest clients represented approximately 41% of our revenues in fiscal 2005. No single client accounted for more than 10% of our revenue during the last fiscal year. We seek to maintain long-term relationships with our clients. Many of our clients typically operate under long-term contracts with initial terms of at least two years in length. We have historically experienced high retention rates among our clients. Sales and Marketing Acxiom takes a solution-selling approach that combines the full scope of Acxiom's strengths to deliver solutions for clients that enhance profitability, reduce risk, and lower costs. Core branded offerings from Acxiom include: o Data (under the InfoBase brand), o Customer Data Integration (under the AbiliTec brand), o Database services, IT outsourcing, fraud management, analytics, privacy consulting (all under the umbrella Acxiom brand). Acxiom maintains a strong focus on industry expertise to ensure we understand our clients' unique business opportunities and challenges. This was achieved to a greater degree than ever in the past two fiscal years as Acxiom has introduced and standardized a required and intensive training and "accreditation" process for sales associates. Acxiom continues to promote a sales and marketing-driven culture that encourages each associate to understand how he or she can better promote the sale of Acxiom solutions and the satisfaction of our clients. It complements the strong product/service delivery culture that has helped Acxiom succeed in the past. The sales and marketing-driven attitude extends across the enterprise, and sales activities with major clients involve a high level of collaboration and cooperation across all levels of leadership in sales, marketing and operations. Also, as noted above, Acxiom partners with many of the world's leading systems integrators and hardware and software companies to create and distribute the best customer and information management solutions for the market. Our partners include such companies as Accenture, D&B, DWL, Equitec, Hewlett Packard, IBM Corporation, Moore Wallace Response Marketing Services, SAS Institute, TransUnion and USADATA. We will continue to seek alliance opportunities with companies that can complement or expand our business by offering unique data content, strategic services, or market presence in a new industry. Pricing for Products and Services We have standard pricing guidelines for many services such as list processing, national change-of-address processing, data cleansing/postal hygiene, merge/purge processing and other standard Customer Data Integration (CDI) processing. Data warehousing/database management services tend to be more custom-designed and are negotiated individually with each client utilizing standard pricing guidelines. Pricing for data warehouses and database builds may include separate fees for discovery, design, initial build, implementation, ongoing updates, queries and outputs. We also may price separately for consulting and statistical analysis services. 22 We publish standard prices for many of our data products. These products are priced with volume and license-period discounts. Licenses for our entire consumer or business database for one or more years are priced individually. AbiliTec is priced as software, and the right to use it is licensed to our clients, typically under one- to three-year license agreements. The pricing includes separate fees for the annual license and for individual transactions, if applicable. Both components allow for volume price discounts. AbiliTec may also be utilized as part of an AbiliTec-enabled service and priced as a bundled service solution. IT Management services are priced based on the costs of migration, management services, operation of the data center, and network and system infrastructure. Competition Although the information services industry in which we operate is highly competitive, we believe that we are the leader in our field of expertise. Within the industry, there are data content providers, database marketing service providers, analytical data application vendors, enterprise software providers, systems integrators, consulting firms, list brokerage/list management firms and teleservices companies that compete with us. Many firms offer a limited number of services within a particular geographic area, and several are national or international companies and offer a broad array of information services. However, we do not know of a competitor that offers our complete line of products and services for Customer Information Infrastructure. In the services arena, we compete primarily with in-house information technology departments of current and prospective clients, as well as firms that provide data warehousing and database services, mailing list processing and consulting services. Competition is based on the quality and reliability of products and services, technological expertise, historical experience, ability to develop customized solutions for clients, processing capabilities and price. We have three primary competitors in the data warehousing and database services and mailing list processing sectors. In the data sector, we compete with two types of firms: data providers and list providers. Competition is based on the quality and comprehensiveness of the information provided, the ability to deliver the information in products and formats that the client needs and, to a lesser extent, on the pricing of information products and services. We have four principal competitors in this market. We also compete with hundreds of smaller firms that provide list brokerage and list management services. An emerging market is the Internet-driven data market. This market consists of two primary areas of emphasis: the use of the Internet to collect and deliver data, and the use of e-mail addresses for reaching consumers for marketing. The addition of the Internet into the traditional compilation and distribution channels has made the market more diverse with potentially lower barriers to entry. In the IT management market, competition is based on technical expertise and innovation, financial stability, past experience with the provider, marketplace reputation, cultural fit, quality and reliability of services, project management capabilities, processing environments, and price. We have four primary competitors and three lesser competitors, as well the in-house IT departments of current and prospective clients. In Europe, Acxiom faces similar competition as in the United States in terms of the scope and type of competition. While there is a broader range of competitors across Europe, particularly for customer data, the major competitors in both the services and the data markets are very similar to those that Acxiom has in the United States. Privacy We have always taken an active approach with respect to consumer privacy. The growth of e-commerce and companies' needs for consumer information mean that we must work even harder to guarantee that our policies offer individuals the protection to which they are entitled. Consequently, we actively promote a set of effective privacy guidelines for the direct marketing, e-commerce, and information industries as a whole. Industry-wide compliance helps address privacy concerns across the globe. Furthermore, we are certified under the European Union Safe Harbor and contractually comply with other international data protection requirements to ensure the continued free flow of information across borders. 23 Our Fair Information Practices Policy outlines the variety of measures we take to protect consumers' privacy. A copy of this policy is posted on our website at www.acxiom.com. We educate our clients and associates regarding consumer privacy issues, guidelines and laws. Our policy also explains the steps that consumers may take to have their names removed from our marketing products and to obtain a copy of the information we maintain about them in our reference products. Companies are assessing their privacy policies and beginning to recognize that newly developed customer data integration technology can help them honor an individual's preferences and address consumers' concerns. We believe that technologies such as AbiliTec will enable businesses to move beyond mere privacy "protection" and toward aggressive consumer advocacy. Just as AbiliTec allows businesses to create a single view of their customers in real time for marketing purposes, it makes it much easier for businesses to honor their customers' preferences and selectively opt out of certain practices, and provide better safeguards around their customers' information. Privacy legislation is pending in Congress and in most of the 50 states, and we anticipate that additional legislation will continue to be introduced in the future. While there has been a significant amount of proposed legislation, we believe that as legislators come to better understand the importance of information as a fundamental building block of a robust economy, reasonable legislative approaches to information use will prevail. We are supportive of legislation that codifies the current industry guidelines of notice and opt-out regarding whether or not a consumer's personal information is shared with independent third parties for marketing purposes. We recognize that different types of personal information should be afforded varying safeguards, so with regard to certain types of sensitive personal information, we support choice on an opt-in basis for third-party marketing use. Acxiom also supports legislation requiring all custodians of sensitive information to deploy reasonable information security safeguards to protect that information. Employees Acxiom currently employs approximately 6,600 employees (associates) worldwide. None of Acxiom's U.S. associates are currently represented by a labor union or are the subject of a collective bargaining agreement. To the best of management's knowledge, approximately 18 associates are elected members of work councils representing the associates in France, Germany and the Netherlands. Acxiom has never experienced a work stoppage and believes that its employee relations are good. RECENT DEVELOPMENTS Effective May 6, 2005, we acquired the outstanding stock of Digital Impact, Inc., a leading provider of integrated digital marketing solutions for Global 2000 enterprises based in San Mateo, CA, with approximately 280 employees. It offers online direct marketing solutions which assist companies in creating and delivering successful e-mail marketing programs designed to drive revenue, influence behavior and strengthen customer relationships through a combination of hosted web applications, messaging technology infrastructure and professional services. Management believes that the acquisition will provide Acxiom with a competitive platform to win digital marketing outsourcing contracts with new clients and expand offerings to current clients. Based on the "IMPACT Platform," Digital delivers integrated campaign management, analytics, and e-messaging services focused on strategic data-driven marketing results. Digital provides campaigns across multimedia channels and was the first company to offer comprehensive e-mail deliverability reporting (percentage of e-mails sent that reach the intended recipient) and anti-spam solutions. Representative clients include The GAP, Dell, HP, Fidelity, Comcast and Marriot. In April 2005, we discontinued most of our operations in Japan. We initially entered the Japanese market in 2000 by purchasing a minority interest in a Japanese consumer data firm. Our activities in Japan consisted of providing data hygiene, marketing campaign data and consulting services. The decision to serve the market through business partnerships was based on the fact that the business did not expand as rapidly as we had anticipated and never achieved profitability. 24 CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS RELEVANT TO FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION This document, the documents that we incorporate by reference, and other written reports and oral statements made from time to time by us and our representatives contain forward-looking statements. These statements, which are not statements of historical fact, may contain estimates, assumptions, projections and/or expectations regarding our financial position, results of operations, market position, product development, growth opportunities, economic conditions, and other similar forecasts and statements of expectation. We generally indicate these statements by words or phrases such as "anticipate," "estimate," "plan," "expect," "believe," "intend," "foresee," and similar words or phrases. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to a number of factors and uncertainties that could cause our actual results and experiences to differ materially from the anticipated results and expectations expressed in such forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements contained in this report include the items set forth on pages F-26- F-27 in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A") attached hereto. In light of the risks, uncertainties and assumptions set forth in the MD&A, we caution readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements based on the occurrence of future events, the receipt of new information or otherwise. 