Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks described below could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of future operations. These risks are not the only ones we face. Our business operations could also be impaired by additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us, or that we currently consider immaterial. We must keep up with rapidly changing technologies or our products and services could become less competitive. The complexity and uncertainty regarding the development of new technologies affect our business greatly, as does the loss of market share through competition, or the extent and timing of market acceptance of innovative products and technology. We are also potentially affected by: • Longer sales cycles for our solutions due to the nature of that technology as an enterprise-wide solution; • The introduction of competent, competitive products or technologies by other companies; • Changes in the consumer and/or business information industries and markets; • The ability to protect our proprietary information and technology or to obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms; and • The impact of changing legislative, judicial, accounting, regulatory, cultural and consumer environments in the geographies where our products and services are deployed. Maintaining technological competitiveness in our data products, processing functionality, software systems and services is key to our continued success. Our ability to continually improve our current processes and to develop and introduce new products and services is essential in order to maintain our competitive position and meet the increasingly sophisticated requirements of our clients. If we fail to do so, we could lose clients to current or future competitors, which could result in decreased revenues, net income and earnings per share. Changes in legislative, judicial, regulatory, cultural or consumer environments relating to consumer privacy or information collection and use may affect our ability to collect and use data. There could be a material adverse impact on our business due to the enactment of legislation or industry regulations, the issuance of judicial interpretations, or simply a change in customs, arising from the increasing public concern over consumer privacy issues. In the U.S., both the Congress and the legislatures of various states have recently focused their attention on matters concerning the collection and use of consumer data. In most of the non-U.S. locations in which we do business, legislation restricting the collection and use of personal data already exists. Many times restrictions are placed on the use of data by the occurrence of events that rapidly drive the adoption of legislation or regulation. Restrictions could be placed upon the collection, management, aggregation and use of information, which could result in a material increase in the cost of collecting some kinds of data. In the U.S. the general data collection regime is that non-sensitive data is usable so long as the person does not affirmatively “opt-out” of the collection. In Europe the reverse is true. If the European model were adopted in the U.S. it would lead to less data being available and at a higher cost. It is also possible that we could be prohibited from collecting or disseminating certain types of data, which could in turn materially adversely affect our ability to meet our clients’ requirements, potentially resulting in decreased revenues, net income, and earnings per share. We could experience a breach of the confidentiality of the information we hold or of the security of our computer systems. We operate extremely large, powerful and complex computer systems that contain personally identifiable data. Unauthorized third parties could attempt to gain entry to such systems for the purpose of stealing data or disrupting the systems. We believe that we have taken adequate measures to protect them from intrusion, but in the event that 17 our efforts are unsuccessful we could suffer significant harm. Further, we handle large quantities of personally identifiable information that must be maintained on a confidential basis. In the event the confidentiality of such information was compromised, we could suffer significant harm. Data suppliers might withdraw data from us, leading to our inability to provide products and services. Much of the data that we use is either purchased or licensed from third parties. We compile the remainder of the data that we use from public record sources. We could suffer a material adverse effect if owners of the data we use were to withdraw the data from us. Data providers could withdraw their data from us if there is a competitive reason to do so, or if legislation is passed restricting the use of the data, or if judicial interpretations are issued restricting use of data. If a substantial number of data providers were to withdraw their data, our ability to provide products and services to our clients could be materially adversely impacted, which could result in decreased revenues, net income and earnings per share. The nature and volume of our customer contracts may affect the predictability of our revenues. While approximately 74%of our total revenue is currently derived from clients who have long-term contracts (defined as contracts with initial terms of two years or more), these contracts have been entered into at various times and therefore some of them are in the latter part of their terms and are approaching their originally scheduled expiration dates. Further, if renewed by the customer, the terms of the renewal contract may not have a term as long as, or may otherwise be on terms less favorable than, the original contract. Revenue from customers with long-term contracts is not necessarily “fixed” or guaranteed, however, as portions of the revenue from these customers is volume-driven or project-related. With respect to the portion of our business that is not under long-term contract, revenues are less predictable and are almost completely volume-driven or project-related. Therefore, we must engage in continual sales efforts to maintain revenue stability and future growth with these customers. In addition, if a significant customer fails to renew a contract, our business could be negatively impacted if additional business were not obtained to replace the business which was lost. Our operations outside the U.S. subject us to risks normally associated with international operations. During the last fiscal year, we received approximately 18%of our revenues from business outside the United States. As part of our growth strategy, we plan to continue to pursue opportunities outside the U.S., and in order to do this we must continue to strengthen our foreign operations, hire additional personnel, and continue to identify and execute beneficial strategic alliances. To the extent that we are unable to do these things in a timely manner, our growth, if any, in non-U.S. revenues will be limited, and our operating results could be materially adversely affected. In general, each of our foreign locations is expected to fund its own operations and cash flows, although periodically funds may be loaned or invested from the U.S. to the foreign subsidiaries. Therefore, exchange rate movements of foreign currencies may have an impact on our future costs or on future cash flows from foreign investments. We have not entered into any foreign currency forward exchange contracts or other derivative instruments to hedge the effects of adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Additional risks inherent in our non-U.S. business activities generally include, among others, potentially longer accounts receivable payment cycles, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, potentially adverse tax consequences, and greater difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights. The various risks which are inherent in doing business in the United States are also generally applicable to doing business outside of the United States, and may be exaggerated by the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions due to differences in culture, laws and regulations. Loss of data center capacity or interruption of telecommunication links could adversely affect our business. Our business is heavily dependent upon highly complex data processing capability. Our ability to protect our data centers against damage or interruption from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or other disasters is critical to our future. The on-line services we provide are dependent on links to telecommunication providers. We believe we have taken reasonable precautions to protect our data centers and telecommunication links from events that could interrupt our operations. Any damage to our data centers or any failure of our telecommunications links that causes interruptions in our operations could materially adversely affect our ability to meet our clients' requirements, which could result in decreased revenues, net income, and earnings per share. 18 Failure to favorably negotiate or effectively integrate acquisitions or alliances could adversely affect our business. As part of our growth strategy we may continue to acquire other complementary businesses, products and technologies or enter into joint ventures or similar strategic relationships. While we believe we will be able to successfully integrate recently acquired businesses into our existing operations, there is no certainty that future acquisitions or alliances will be consummated on acceptable terms or that we will be able to integrate successfully the services, content, products and personnel of any such transaction into our operations. In addition, any future acquisitions, joint ventures or similar relationships may cause a disruption in our ongoing business and distract our management. There is also no assurance that we would derive the revenue improvements, cost savings and other intended benefits of any such transaction. The occurrence of any of these events could result in decreased revenues, net income and earnings per share. The direct marketing community could be negatively affected by both rising postal costs and the green movement. Postal rate increases are now expected to occur every year. The most recent increase in the U.S. became effective in May 2008 and the next increase is expected in May 2009. Rates are anticipated to rise annually at approximately the rate of inflation, and as they rise, we expect to see increased pressure on direct mailers to leverage digital communication and mail fewer pieces. Those in the direct mail business, as well the postal service, are under growing pressure to reduce their impact on the environment. It is uncertain at this time what either marketers or the postal service will do to lessen their impact. From a postal service perspective, the actions to be taken may involve changing certain aspects of mail service that would negatively affect direct marketers. From a marketer’s perspective, such actions could have the same effect as increased rates, thereby causing them to mail fewer pieces. Acxiom is investing in digital marketing services and expects to offset some of the declining revenues associated with regular mail, but an aggressive response by direct mailers could negatively affect us by decreasing the amount of processing services our clients purchase from us, which could result in lower revenues, net income and earnings per share. Industry consolidations could result in increased competition for our products and services. Our industry has experienced a variety of business combinations that consolidate our competitors. The possibility of the consolidation or merger of companies who might combine forces to create a single-source provider of multiple services to the marketplace in which we compete could result in increased price competition for us which would negatively affect our business results. We currently compete against numerous providers of a single service or product in several separate market spaces. (See the discussion above under “Competition.”) Since we offer a larger variety of services than many of our current competitors, we have been able to successfully compete against them in most instances. However, the dynamics of the marketplace could be significantly altered if some of the single-service providers were to combine with each other to provide a wider variety of services. Processing errors or delays in completing service level requirements could result in negative financial consequences. Processing errors could result in the issuance of credits to clients, the re-performance of work, and/or the payment of damages. Likewise, the failure to meet contractual service level requirements or to meet specified goals with contractual timeframes could result in monetary penalties or lost revenue. Our engagements with certain clients may not be profitable. The pricing and other terms of our client contracts, particularly our long-term IT outsourcing agreements, require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts that could differ from actual results. 19 These estimates reflect our best judgments regarding the nature of the engagement and our expected costs to provide the contracted services. Any increased or unexpected costs or unanticipated delays in connection with the performance of these engagements, including delays caused by factors outside our control, could make these contracts less profitable or unprofitable, which would have an adverse affect on our profit margin. Our exposure to this risk increases generally in proportion to the scope of the client contract and is higher in the early stages of such a contract. In addition, a majority of our IT outsourcing contracts contain some fixed-price, incentive-based or other pricing terms that condition our fee on our ability to meet defined goals. Our failure to meet a client's expectations in any type of contract may result in an unprofitable engagement. Our ability to recover significant capital investments in certain contracts is subject to risks. A few of our client contracts require significant investment in the early stages which is expected to be recovered through billings over the life of the contract. These contracts often involve the construction of new computer systems and communications networks and the development and deployment of new technologies. Substantial performance risk exists in each contract with these characteristics, and some or all elements of service delivery under these contracts are dependent upon successful completion of the development, construction and deployment phases. We have identified two material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, and concluded that our internal control was not effective as of March 31, 2008. The Company has identified two material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and, as a result, has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting as of March 31, 2008 was not effective. Although we are adopting measures to remediate these material weaknesses, there can be no assurance that our remedial efforts will be effective, nor can there be any assurances that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. Remediation of the material weaknesses may be costly and time consuming. The inability to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could adversely affect our financial results, the market price of our common stock or our operations. See Item 9A, Controls and Procedures Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures in this Annual Report for Form 10-K for further discussion. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 