ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information included in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered in evaluating our business and future prospects. The risk factors described below are not necessarily exhaustive and investors are encouraged to perform their own investigation with respect to us and our business. Investors should also read the other information included in this Form 10-K, including our financial statements and the related notes and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Cautionary Statement about Forward-Looking Statements.” Natural gas and oil prices are volatile. Volatility in natural gas and oil prices can adversely affect our results and the price of our common stock. This volatility also makes valuation of natural gas and oil producing properties difficult and can disrupt markets. Natural gas and oil prices have historically been, and are likely to continue to be, volatile. The prices for natural gas and oil are subject to wide fluctuation in response to a number of factors, including: · relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for natural gas and oil; · market uncertainty; · worldwide economic conditions; · weather conditions; · import prices; · political conditions in major oil producing regions, especially the Middle East; · actions taken by OPEC; · competition from other sources of energy; and · economic, political and regulatory developments. Price volatility makes it difficult to budget and project the return on exploration and development projects involving our natural gas and oil properties and to estimate with precision the value of producing properties that we may own or propose to acquire. In addition, unusually volatile prices often disrupt the market for natural gas and oil properties, as buyers and sellers have more difficulty agreeing on the purchase price of properties. Our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate significantly as a result of, among other things, variations in natural gas and oil prices and production performance. In recent years, natural gas and oil price volatility has become increasingly severe. 22 SWN Table of Contents A substantial or extended decline in natural gas and oil prices would have a material adverse affect on us. Natural gas and oil prices have recently been at or near their highest historical levels. A substantial or extended decline in natural gas and oil prices would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, our results of operations, our access to capital and the quantities of natural gas and oil that may be economically produced by us. A significant decrease in price levels for an extended period would negatively affect us in several ways including: · our cash flow would be reduced, decreasing funds available for capital investments employed to replace reserves or increase production; · certain reserves would no longer be economic to produce, leading to both lower proved reserves and cash flow; and · access to other sources of capital, such as equity or long-term debt markets, could be severely limited or unavailable. Consequently, our revenues and profitability would suffer. Lower natural gas and oil prices may cause us to record ceiling test write-downs. We use the full cost method of accounting for our natural gas and oil operations. Accordingly, we capitalize the cost to acquire, explore for and develop natural gas and oil properties. Under the full cost accounting rules of the SEC, the capitalized costs of natural gas and oil properties - net of accumulated depreciation, depletion and amortization, and deferred income taxes - may not exceed a “ceiling limit.” This is equal to the present value of estimated future net cash flows from proved natural gas and oil reserves, discounted at 10 percent, plus the lower of cost or fair value of unproved properties included in the costs being amortized, net of related tax effects. These rules generally require pricing future natural gas and oil production at the unescalated natural gas and oil prices in effect at the end of each fiscal quarter, including the impact of derivatives qualifying as hedges. They also require a write-down if the ceiling limit is exceeded, even if prices declined for only a relatively short period of time. Once a write-down is taken, it cannot be reversed in future periods even if natural gas and oil prices increase. If natural gas and oil prices decline below levels at December 31, 2007, a write-down may occur. Write-downs required by these rules do not impact cash flow from operating activities but do reduce net income and stockholders' equity. We may have difficulty financing our planned capital investments, which could adversely affect our growth. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience substantial capital expenditure and working capital needs, particularly as a result of our drilling program. Our planned capital investments for 2008 are expected to significantly exceed the net cash generated by our operations. We expect to borrow under our credit facility to fund capital investments that are in excess of our net cash flow and cash on hand. Our ability to borrow under our credit facility is subject to certain conditions. At December 31, 2007, we were in compliance with the borrowing conditions of our credit facility. If we are not in compliance with the terms of our credit facility in the future, we may not be able to borrow under it to fund our capital investments. We also cannot be certain that other additional financing will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. In the event additional capital resource s are unavailable, we may curtail our drilling, development and other activities or be forced to sell some of our assets on an untimely or unfavorable basis. Any such curtailment or sale could have a material adverse effect on our results and future operations. Working interest owners of some of our properties may be unwilling or unable to cover their portion of development costs, which could change our exploration and development plans. Some of our working interest owners may have difficulties obtaining the capital needed to finance their activities, or may believe that estimated drilling and completion costs are excessive. As a result, these working interest owners may be unable or unwilling to pay their share of well costs as they become due. These problems could cause us to change our development plans for these properties. 23 SWN Table of Contents Although our estimated natural gas and oil reserve data is independently audited, our estimates may still prove to be inaccurate. Our reserve data represents the estimates of our reservoir engineers made under the supervision of our management. Our reserve estimates are audited each year by Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc., or NSA, an independent petroleum engineering firm. In conducting its audit, the engineers and geologists of NSA study our major properties in detail and independently develop reserve estimates. NSA’s audit consists primarily of substantive testing, which includes a detailed review of major properties that account for approximately 81% of the present worth of our total proved reserves. NSA’s audit process consists of sorting all fields by descending present value order and selecting the fields from highest value to descending value until the selected fields account for more than 80% of the present worth of our reserves. The properties in the bottom 20% of the total present worth are the lowest value properties and a re not reviewed in the audit. The fields included in approximately the top 81% present value as of December 31, 2007 accounted for approximately 85% of our total proved reserves and approximately 90% of our proved undeveloped reserves. In the conduct of its audit, NSA did not independently verify the data that we provided to them with respect to ownership interests, oil and gas production, well test data, historical costs of operations and development, product prices, or any agreements relating to current and future operations of the properties and sales of production. NSA has advised us that if, in the course of its audit, something came to its attention that brought into question the validity or sufficiency of any such information or data, NSA did not rely on such information or data until it had satisfactorily resolved any questions relating thereto or had independently verified such information or data. The estimates of Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. may differ significantly on an individual property basis from our estimates. When, in the aggregate, such differences are within 10%, Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. is generally satisfied that the estimates of proved reserves are reasonable. Reserve estimates are prepared for each of our properties annually by the reservoir engineers assigned to the asset management team in the geographic locations in which the property is located. These estimates are reviewed by senior engineers who are not part of the asset management teams and by the president of our E&P subsidiaries. Finally, the estimates of our proved reserves together with the audit report of Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. are reviewed by our Board of Directors. There are numerous uncertainties and risks that are inherent in estimating quantities of natural gas and oil reserves and projecting future rates of production and timing of development expenditures as many factors are beyond our control. We incorporate many factors and assumptions into our estimates including: · expected reservoir characteristics based on geological, geophysical and engineering assessments; · future production rates based on historical performance and expected future operating and investment activities; · future oil and gas prices and quality and locational differentials; and · future development and operating costs. Although we believe our assumptions are reasonable based on the information available to us at the time we prepare our estimates, our actual results could vary considerably from estimated quantities of proved natural gas and oil reserves (in the aggregate and for a particular geographic location), production, revenues, taxes and development and operating expenditures. In addition, our estimates of reserves may be subject to downward or upward revision based upon production history, results of future exploration and development, prevailing natural gas and oil prices, severance taxes, operating and development costs and other factors. In 2007, our reserves were revised upward by 31.0 Bcfe, primarily due to improved performance in our Fayetteville Shale properties, which was partially offset by a downward revision in our Overton properties. In 2006, our reserves were revised downward by 86.6 Bcfe, primarily due to lower prevailing oil and g as prices at year-end combined with performance revisions in some of our East Texas and conventional Arkoma Basin properties, which were partially offset by an upward performance revision in our Fayetteville Shale properties. In 2005, our reserves were revised downward by 31.7 Bcfe, primarily due to unexpected declines associated with our Gulf Coast properties and minor changes to decline rates for our wells at the Overton Field. These revisions represented no greater than 8% of our total reserve estimates in each of these years, which we believe is indicative of the effectiveness of our internal controls. Because we review our reserve projections for every property at the end of every year, any material change in a reserve estimate is included in subsequent reserve reports. Finally, recovery of undeveloped reserves generally requires significant capital investments and successful drilling operations. At December 31, 2007, approximately 36% of our estimated proved reserves were undeveloped. Our reserve data assume that we can and will make these expenditures and conduct these operations successfully, which may not occur. Please read “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Cautionary Statement about Forward-Looking Statements” in Item 7 of Part II of this Form 10-K for additional information regarding the uncertainty of reserve estimates. 24 SWN Table of Contents Our future level of indebtedness and the terms of our financing arrangements may adversely affect operations and limit our growth. At December 31, 2007, we had total long-term indebtedness of $977.6 million, including borrowings of $842.2 million under our revolving credit facility. In January 2008, we issued $600 million of senior notes and used the net proceeds to repay outstanding amounts under our revolving credit facility. At February 22, 2008, we had total long-term indebtedness of $1,063.6 million, including borrowings of $328.2 million under of revolving credit facility. We currently expect to utilize the borrowing availability under our revolving credit facility in order to fund a portion of our capital investments in 2008. See also our risk factor headed “We may have difficulty financing our planned capital investments which could adversely affect our growth,” above. The terms of the indenture relating to our outstanding senior notes, our revolving credit facility and the master lease agreement relating to our drilling rigs, which we collectively refer to as our “financing agreements,” impose restrictions on our ability and, in some cases, the ability of our subsidiaries to take a number of actions that we may otherwise desire to take, including one or more of the following: · incurring additional debt, including guarantees of indebtedness; · redeeming stock or redeeming debt; · making investments; · creating liens on our assets; and · selling assets. Our level of indebtedness and off-balance sheet obligations, and the covenants contained in our financing agreements, could have important consequences for our operations, including: · requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to required payments, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow for working capital, capital investments and other general business activities; · limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital investments, acquisitions and general corporate and other activities; · limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and · detracting from our ability to successfully withstand a downturn in our business or the economy generally. Our ability to comply with the covenants and other restrictions in our financing agreements may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic and financial conditions. If we fail to comply with the covenants and other restrictions, it could lead to an event of default and the acceleration of our obligations under those agreements, and in the case of the master lease agreement, loss of use of our drilling rigs. We may not have sufficient funds to make such payments. If we are unable to satisfy our obligations with cash on hand, we could attempt to refinance such debt, sell assets or repay such debt with the proceeds from an equity offering. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flow to pay the interest on our debt, to meet our lease obligations, or that future borrowings, equity financings or proceeds from the sale of assets will be available to pay or refinance such debt or obligations. The terms of our financing agreements may also prohibit us from taking such actions. Factors that will affect our ability to raise cash through an offering of our capital stock, a refinancing of our debt or a sale of assets include financial market conditions and our market value and operating performance at the time of such offering or other financing. We cannot assure you that any such proposed offering, refinancing or sale of assets can be successfully completed or, if completed, that the terms will be favorable to us. If we fail to find or acquire additional reserves, our reserves and production will decline materially from their current levels. The rate of production from natural gas and oil properties generally declines as reserves are depleted. Except to the extent that we acquire additional properties containing proved reserves, conduct successful exploration and development activities, successfully apply new technologies or, through engineering studies, identify additional behind-pipe zones or secondary recovery reserves, our proved reserves will decline materially as reserves are produced. Future 25 SWN Table of Contents natural gas and oil production is, therefore, highly dependent upon our level of success in acquiring or finding additional reserves. Our drilling plans for the Fayetteville Shale play are subject to change. As of December 31, 2007, we had drilled and completed 478 wells relating to our Fayetteville Shale play. At year-end 2007, approximately 18% of our leasehold acreage was held by production, excluding our acreage in the traditional Fairway portion of the Arkoma Basin. Our drilling plans with respect to our Fayetteville Shale play are flexible and are dependent upon a number of factors, including the extent to which we can replicate the results of our most successful Fayetteville Shale wells on our other Fayetteville Shale acreage as well as the natural gas and oil commodity price environment. The determination as to whether we continue to drill wells in the Fayetteville Shale may depend on any one or more of the following factors: · our ability to determine the most effective and economic fracture stimulation for the Fayetteville Shale formation; · material changes in natural gas prices; · changes in the estimates of costs to drill or complete wells; · the extent of our success in drilling and completing horizontal wells; · our ability to reduce our exposure to costs and drilling risks; · the costs and availability of drilling equipment; · success or failure of wells drilled in similar formations or which would use the same production facilities; · receipt of additional seismic or other geologic data or reprocessing of existing data; · the extent to which we are able to effectively operate our own drillings rigs; or · availability and cost of capital. We continue to gather data about our prospects in the Fayetteville Shale, and it is possible that additional information may cause us to alter our drilling schedule or determine that prospects in some portion of our acreage position should not be pursued at all. We may have difficulty drilling all of the wells that are necessary to hold our Fayetteville Shale acreage before the initial lease terms expire, which could result in the loss of certain leasehold rights. Approximately 259,000 net acres of our Fayetteville Shale acreage will expire in the next three years if we do not drill successful wells to develop the acreage or otherwise take action to extend the leases. As discussed above under “Our drilling plans for the Fayetteville Shale play are subject to change,” our ability to drill wells depends on a number of factors, including certain factors that are beyond our control. The number of wells we will be required to drill to retain our leasehold rights will be determined by field rules established by the Arkansas Oil and Gas Commission, or the AOGC. However, current rules are subject to change and could impair our ability to drill or maintain our acreage position. To the extent that any field rules prevent us from successfully drilling wells in certain areas, we may not be able to drill the wells required to maintain our leasehold rights for certain of ou r Fayetteville Shale acreage. If our Fayetteville Shale drilling program fails to produce a significant supply of natural gas, our investments in our gas gathering operations could be lost and our commitments for transportation on pipelines could make the sale of our gas uneconomic, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. As of December 31, 2007, we had invested approximately $161 million in our gas gathering operations and we intend to invest approximately $101 million in 2008. Our gas gathering business will largely rely on gas sourced in our Fayetteville Shale play area in Arkansas. In addition, we have signed a precedent agreement committing us to a portion of the transportation fees related to the Fayetteville and Greenville laterals being built to service the Fayetteville Shale play area by Texas Gas Transmission, LLC, a subsidiary of Boardwalk Pipeline Partners, LP, or TGT. Our gas gathering subsidiary has also entered into multiple firm transportation agreements relating to gas volumes from our Fayetteville Shale play. If our Fayetteville Shale drilling program fails to produce a significant supply of natural gas, our investments in our gas gathering operations could be lost, and we could be forced to pay transpor tation fees on pipeline capacity that we 26 SWN Table of Contents would not be using. These events could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. An increase in the Arkansas severance tax on natural gas could adversely impact the economic feasibility of the Fayetteville Shale play and our results of operations. The State of Arkansas currently levies severance taxes on a broad range of minerals and other natural resources, including natural gas and oil. Currently, the Arkansas severance tax on natural gas is equal to 0.3 cents per 1000 cubic feet. There are presently efforts being undertaken in Arkansas within and without the legislature to modify the severance tax on natural gas so that it is based on a percentage of the market value of the natural gas at the time and point of severance, and to have that percentage be as much as 7%. A 1934 amendment to the Arkansas constitution requires a three-fourths vote by both the House and Senate to raise the severance tax. However, if the severance tax increase is proposed through a ballot initiative, a simple majority of the Arkansas voters can approve the proposed increase. The attorney general of Arkansas recently approved the wording of a ballot initiative that would raise the natural gas severance tax in Arkansas to 7% of the market value of the gas at the time of severance. The governor of Arkansas has publicly stated his support for an increase in the natural gas severance tax to levels comparable to those in Texas and Oklahoma and indicated that, if the natural gas production industry and the legislature do not agree to raise the severance tax, he may introduce a ballot initiative in 2008. The deadline for submitting the petition for proposed initiated acts to the secretary of state’s office is July 7, 2008, and the petition must contain 61,974 signatures from registered Arkansas voters in order to be placed on the general election ballot. If enacted, an increase in the severance tax on natural gas could impact the economic feasibility of our Fayetteville Shale play and our results of operations. Our exploration, development and drilling efforts and our operations of our wells may not be profitable or achieve our targeted returns. We require significant amounts of undeveloped leasehold acreage in order to further our development efforts. Exploration, development, drilling and production activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that no commercially productive reservoirs will be discovered. We invest in property, including undeveloped leasehold acreage that we believe will result in projects that will add value over time. However, we cannot assure you that all prospects will result in viable projects or that we will not abandon our initial investments. Additionally, there can be no assurance that leasehold acreage acquired by us will be profitably developed, that new wells drilled by us in prospects that we pursue will be productive or that we will recover all or any portion of our investment in such leasehold acreage or wells. Drilling for natural gas and oil may involve unprofitable efforts, not only from dry wells but a lso from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net reserves to return a profit after deducting drilling, operating and other costs. In addition, wells that are profitable may not achieve our targeted rate of return. Our ability to achieve our target PVI results are dependent upon the current and future market prices for natural gas and crude oil, costs associated with producing natural gas and crude oil and our ability to add reserves at an acceptable cost. We rely to a significant extent on seismic data and other advanced technologies in identifying leasehold acreage prospects and in conducting our exploration activities. The seismic data and other technologies we use do not allow us to know conclusively prior to acquisition of leasehold acreage or drilling a well whether natural gas or oil is present or may be produced economically. The use of seismic data and other technologies also requires greater pre-drilling expenditures than traditional drilling strateg ies. In addition, we may not be successful in implementing our business strategy of controlling and reducing our drilling and production costs in order to improve our overall return. The cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is often uncertain, and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of a project. Further, our drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of numerous factors, including unexpected drilling conditions, title problems, pressure or irregularities in formations, equipment failures or accidents, adverse weather conditions, environmental and other governmental requirements and the cost of, or shortages or delays in the availability of, drilling rigs, equipment and services. We incur substantial costs to comply with government regulations, especially regulations relating to environmental protection, and could incur even greater costs in the future. Our exploration, production, development and gas distribution and marketing operations are regulated extensively at the federal, state and local levels. We have made and will continue to make large expenditures in our efforts to comply with these regulations, including environmental regulation. The natural gas and oil regulatory environment could change in ways that might substantially increase these costs. Hydrocarbon-producing states regulate conservation practices and the protection of correlative rights. These regulations affect our operations and limit the quantity of hydrocarbons we may produce and sell. In addition, at the U.S. federal level, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission regulates interstate 27 SWN Table of Contents transportation of natural gas under the Natural Gas Act. Other regulated matters include marketing, pricing, transportation and valuation of royalty payments. As an owner or lessee and operator of natural gas and oil properties, and an owner of gas gathering, transmission and distribution systems, we are subject to various federal, state and local regulations relating to discharge of materials into, and protection of, the environment. These regulations may, among other things, impose liability on us for the cost of pollution clean-up resulting from operations, subject us to liability for pollution damages, and require suspension or cessation of operations in affected areas. Changes in or additions to regulations regarding the protection of the environment could significantly increase our costs of compliance, or otherwise adversely affect our business. One of the responsibilities of owning and operating natural gas and oil properties is paying for the cost of abandonment. Effective January 1, 2003, companies were required to reflect abandonment costs as a liability on their balance sheets. We may incur significant abandonment costs in the future which could adversely affect our financial results. Natural gas and oil drilling and producing operations involve various risks. Our operations are subject to all the risks normally incident to the operation and development of natural gas and oil properties and the drilling of natural gas and oil wells, including encountering well blowouts, cratering and explosions, pipe failure, fires, formations with abnormal pressures, uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, brine or well fluids, release of contaminants into the environment and other environmental hazards and risks. We maintain insurance against many potential losses or liabilities arising from our operations in accordance with customary industry practices and in amounts that we believe to be prudent. However, our insurance does not protect us against all operational risks. For example, we do not maintain business interruption insurance. Additionally, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. These risks could give rise to significant costs not covered by insurance that could have a material adverse effect upon our financial results. We cannot control activities on properties we do not operate. Failure to fund capital investments may result in reduction or forfeiture of our interests in some of our non-operated projects. We do not operate some of the properties in which we have an interest and we have limited ability to exercise influence over operations for these properties or their associated costs. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 10% of our gas and oil properties, based on PV-10 value, are operated by other companies. Our dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects and our limited ability to influence operations and associated costs could materially adversely affect the realization of our targeted returns on capital in drilling or acquisition activities and our targeted production growth rate. The success and timing of drilling, development and exploitation activities on properties operated by others depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control, including the operator's expertise and financial resources, approval of other participants for drilling wells and utilization of technology. When we are not the majority owner or operator of a particular natural gas or oil project, we may have no control over the timing or amount of capital investments associated with such project. If we are not willing or able to fund our capital investments relating to such projects when required by the majority owner or operator, our interests in these projects may be reduced or forfeited. Our ability to sell our natural gas and crude oil production could be materially harmed if we fail to obtain adequate services such as transportation and processing. Our ability to bring natural gas and crude oil production to market depends on a number of factors including the availability and proximity of pipelines, gathering systems and processing facilities. In some of the areas where we have operations, we deliver natural gas and crude oil through gathering systems and pipelines that we do not own. With respect to our Fayetteville Shale production, we intend to use the Fayetteville and Greenville laterals being built by TGT to sell our production. The laterals are supposed to be available in January 2009. A delay in the commencement of operations of the Fayetteville and Greenville laterals, the unavailability of other facilities due to market conditions, mechanical reasons or otherwise could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Any significant change affecting these facilities or our failure to obtain access to existing or future faci lities on acceptable terms could restrict our ability to conduct normal operations. 28 SWN Table of Contents Shortages of oilfield equipment, services and qualified personnel could adversely affect our results of operations. The demand for qualified and experienced field personnel to drill wells and conduct field operations, geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other professionals in the natural gas and oil industry can fluctuate significantly, often in correlation with natural gas and oil prices, causing periodic shortages. For example, during the last half of 2006, we had difficulty obtaining additional well completion services due to a shortage of completion crews in our Fayetteville Shale play area, which resulted in a higher inventory of wells that had been drilled but were awaiting completion. There have also been shortages of drilling rigs and other equipment, as demand for rigs and equipment has increased along with the number of wells being drilled. These factors also cause significant increases in costs for equipment, services and personnel. Higher natural gas and oil prices generally stimulate increased demand and r esult in increased prices for drilling rigs, crews and associated supplies, equipment and services. We cannot be certain when we will experience shortages or price increases, which could adversely affect our profit margin, cash flow and operating results or restrict our ability to drill wells and conduct ordinary operations. Our business could be adversely affected by competition with other companies. The natural gas and oil industry is highly competitive, and our business could be adversely affected by companies that are in a better competitive position. As an independent natural gas and oil company, we frequently compete for reserve acquisitions, exploration leases, licenses, concessions, marketing agreements, equipment and labor against companies with financial and other resources substantially larger than we possess. Many of our competitors may be able to pay more for exploratory prospects and productive natural gas and oil properties and may be able to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than we can. Our ability to explore for natural gas and oil prospects and to acquire additional properties in the future will depend on our ability to conduct operations, to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in this highly competitive environment. In addition, many of our competitors have been operating in some of our core areas for a much longer time than we have or have established strategic long-term positions in geographic regions in which we may seek new entry. We have made significant investments in our drilling rig operations; however, we are still dependent on third-party drilling companies. We also have limited experience in operating drilling rigs. We have made significant investments in our drilling rig operations, including commitments to lease 15 drilling rigs and related equipment and have hired, as of December 31, 2007, 383 employees for our drilling subsidiary, DeSoto Drilling, Inc. The 15 drilling rigs will not be sufficient to meet the needs of our drilling program and we will still be dependent upon third-party rig providers in order to execute our drilling program in 2008 and beyond, even if we make additional investments. There can be no assurance that our drilling rig operations will not have an adverse effect on our relationships with our existing third-party rig providers or our ability to secure third-party rigs from other providers. We may also compete with third-party rig providers for qualified personnel, which could adversely affect our relationships with rig providers. If our existing third-party rig providers discontinue their relationship s with us, we may not be able to secure alternative rigs on a timely basis, or at all. Even if we are able to secure alternative rigs, there can be no assurance that replacement rigs will be of equivalent quality or that pricing and other terms will be favorable to us. If we are unable to secure third-party rigs or if the terms are not favorable to us, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to attract and retain qualified field personnel to operate our drilling rigs or to otherwise effectively conduct our drilling operations. If we are unable to retain qualified personnel or to effectively conduct our drilling operations, our financial and operating results may be adversely affected. We depend upon our management team and our operations require us to attract and retain experienced technical personnel. The successful implementation of our business strategy and handling of other issues integral to the fulfillment of our business strategy depends, in part, on our experienced management team, as well as certain key geoscientists, geologists, engineers and other professionals employed by us. The loss of key members of our management team or other highly qualified technical professionals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our hedging activities may prevent us from benefiting from price increases and may expose us to other risks. To reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the prices of natural gas and oil, we enter into hedging arrangements with respect to a portion of our expected production. As of December 31, 2007, we had hedges on approximately 70 % of 29 SWN Table of Contents our targeted 2008 natural gas production. Our price risk management activities increased revenues by $70.7 million in 2007 and $8.7 million in 2006, but decreased revenues by $77.2 million in 2005. To the extent that we engage in hedging activities, we may be prevented from realizing the benefits of price increases above the levels of the hedges. In addition, such transactions may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which: · our production is less than expected; · there is a widening of price differentials between delivery points for our production and the delivery point assumed in the hedge arrangement; · the counterparties to our futures contracts fail to perform the contracts; or · a sudden, unexpected event materially impacts natural gas or oil prices. Finally, future market price volatility could create significant changes to the hedge positions recorded on our financial statements. We refer you to “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” in Item 7A of Part II of this Form 10-K. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, and stockholder rights plan contain provisions that could make it more difficult for someone to either acquire us or affect a change of control. Our stockholder rights plan, together with certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, could discourage an effort to acquire us, gain control of the company, or replace members of our executive management team. These provisions could potentially deprive our stockholders of opportunities to sell shares of our common stock at above-market prices. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 