ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our securities involves various risks. All investors should carefully consider the following risk factors in conjunction with the other information in this Report before trading our securities. Risk Factors Related to our Business Adverse events concerning TCI’s existing tenants or negative market conditions affecting TCI’s existing tenants could have an adverse impact on TCI’s ability to attract new tenants, release space, collect rent or renew leases, and thus could adversely affect cash flow from operations and inhibit growth. Cash flow from operations depends in part on the ability to lease space to tenants on economically favorable terms. TCI could be adversely affected by various facts and events over which the Company has limited or no control, such as: • lack of demand for space in areas where the properties are located; • inability to retain existing tenants and attract new tenants; • oversupply of or reduced demand for space and changes in market rental rates; • defaults by tenants or failure to pay rent on a timely basis; • the need to periodically renovate and repair marketable space; • physical damage to properties; • economic or physical decline of the areas where properties are located; • potential risk of functional obsolescence of properties over time. At any time, any tenant may experience a downturn in its business that may weaken its financial condition. As a result, a tenant may delay lease commencement, fail to make rental payments when due, decline to extend a lease upon its expiration, become insolvent or declare bankruptcy. Any tenant bankruptcy or insolvency, leasing delay or failure to make rental payments when due could result in the termination of the tenant’s lease and material losses to the Company. If tenants do not renew their leases as they expire, TCI may not be able to rent the space. Furthermore, leases that are renewed, and some new leases for space that is relet, may have terms that are less economically favorable than expiring lease terms, or may require TCI to incur significant costs, such as renovations, tenant improvements or lease transaction costs. Any of these events could adversely affect cash flow from operations and TCI’s ability to make distributions to shareholders and service indebtedness. A significant portion of the costs of owning property, such as real estate taxes, insurance, and debt service payments, are not necessarily reduced when circumstances cause a decrease in rental income from the properties. TCI may not be able to compete successfully with other entities that operate in our industry. TCI experiences a great deal of competition in attracting tenants for the properties and in locating land to develop and properties to acquire. In TCI’s effort to lease its properties, TCI competes for tenants with a broad spectrum of other landlords in each of the markets. These competitors include, among others, publicly-held REITs, privately-held entities, individual property owners and tenants who wish to sublease their space. Some of these competitors may be able to offer prospective tenants more attractive financial terms than TCI is able to offer. If the availability of land or high quality properties in TCI’s markets diminishes, operating results could be adversely affected. 6 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements TCI may experience increased operating costs which could adversely affect our financial results and the value of our properties. TCI’s properties are subject to increases in operating expenses such as insurance, cleaning, electricity, heating, ventilation and air conditioning, administrative costs and other costs associated with security, landscaping, repairs, and maintenance of the properties. While some current tenants are obligated by their leases to reimburse TCI for a portion of these costs, there is no assurance that these tenants will make such payments or agree to pay these costs upon renewal or new tenants will agree to pay these costs. If operating expenses increase in TCI’s markets, TCI may not be able to increase rents or reimbursements in all of these markets to offset the increased expenses, without at the same time decreasing occupancy rates. If this occurs, TCI’s ability to make distributions to shareholders and service indebtedness could be adversely affected. TCI’s ability to achieve growth in operating income depends in part on its ability to develop additional properties. TCI intends to continue to develop properties where warranted by market conditions. TCI has a number of ongoing development and land projects being readied for commencement. Additionally, general construction and development activities include the following risks: • construction and leasing of a property may not be completed on schedule, which could result in increased expenses and construction costs, and would result in reduced profitability for that property; • construction costs may exceed original estimates due to increases in interest rates and increased cost of materials, labor or other costs, possibly making the property less profitable because of inability to increase rents to compensate for the increase in construction costs; • some developments may fail to achieve expectations, possibly making them less profitable; • TCI may be unable to obtain, or face delays in obtaining, required zoning, land-use, building, occupancy, and other governmental permits and authorizations, which could result in increased costs and could require TCI to abandon its activities entirely with respect to a project; • TCI may abandon development opportunities after the initial exploration, which may result in failure to recover costs already incurred. If TCI determines to alter or discontinue its development efforts, future costs of the investment may be expensed as incurred rather than capitalized and TCI may determine the investment is impaired resulting in a loss; • TCI may expend funds on and devote management’s time to projects which will not be completed; • occupancy rates and rents at newly-completed properties may fluctuate depending on various factors including market and economic conditions, and may result in lower than projected rental rates and reduced income from operations. TCI faces risks associated with property acquisitions. TCI acquires individual properties and various portfolios of properties and intends to continue to do so. Acquisition activities are subject to the following risks: • when TCI is able to locate a desired property, competition from other real estate investors may significantly increase the seller’s offering price; • acquired properties may fail to perform as expected; • the actual costs of repositioning or redeveloping acquired properties may be higher than original estimates; • acquired properties may be located in new markets where TCI faces risks associated with an incomplete knowledge or understanding of the local market, a limited number of established business relationships in the area and a relative unfamiliarity with local governmental and permitting procedures; • TCI may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of portfolios of properties, into existing operations, and results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. 7 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements TCI may acquire properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with limited recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities. However, if an unknown liability was later asserted against the acquired properties, TCI might be required to pay substantial sums to settle it, which could adversely affect cash flow. Many of TCI’s properties are concentrated in our primary markets and the Company may suffer economic harm as a result of adverse conditions in those markets. TCI’s properties are located principally in specific geographic areas in the Southwestern, Southeastern, and Midwestern United States. The Company’s overall performance is largely dependent on economic conditions in those regions. TCI is leveraged and may not be able to meet our debt service obligations. TCI had total indebtedness at December 31, 2005 of approximately $767.6 million. Substantially all assets have been pledged to secure debt. These borrowings increase the risk of loss because they represent a prior claim on assets and most require fixed payments regardless of profitability. TCI’s leveraged position makes it vulnerable to declines in the general economy and may limit the Company’s ability to pursue other business opportunities in the future. TCI may not be able to access financial markets to obtain capital on a timely basis, or on acceptable terms. TCI relies on proceeds from property dispositions and third party capital sources for a portion of its capital needs, including capital for acquisitions and development. The public debt and equity markets are among the sources upon which the Company relies. There is no guarantee TCI will be able to access these markets or any other source of capital. The ability to access the public debt and equity markets depends on a variety of factors, including: • general economic conditions affecting these markets; • TCI’s own financial structure and performance; • the market’s opinion of real estate companies in general; • the market’s opinion of real estate companies that own properties similar to TCI. TCI may suffer adverse effects as a result of terms and covenants relating to the Company’s indebtedness. Required payments on TCI’s indebtedness generally are not reduced if the economic performance of the portfolio declines. If the economic performance declines, net income, cash flow from operations and cash available for distribution to stockholders may be reduced. If payments on debt cannot be made, TCI could sustain a loss or suffer judgments, or in the case of mortgages, suffer foreclosures by mortgagees. Further, some obligations contain cross-default and/or cross-acceleration provisions, which means that a default on one obligation may constitute a default on other obligations. TCI anticipates only a small portion of the principal of its debt will be repaid prior to maturity. Therefore, TCI is likely to refinance a portion of its outstanding debt as it matures. There is a risk that TCI may not be able to refinance existing debt or the terms of any refinancing will not be as favorable as the terms of the maturing debt. If principal balances due at maturity cannot be refinanced, extended, or repaid with proceeds from other sources, such as the proceeds of sales of assets or new equity capital, cash flow may not be sufficient to repay all maturing debt in years when significant “balloon” payments come due. TCI’s credit facilities and unsecured debt contain customary restrictions, requirements and other limitations on the ability to incur indebtedness, including total debt to asset ratios, secured debt to total asset ratios, debt service coverage ratios, and minimum ratios of unencumbered assets to unsecured debt, which TCI must maintain. TCI’s continued ability to borrow is subject to compliance with financial and other covenants. In addition, failure to comply with such covenants could cause a default under credit facilities, and TCI may then be required to repay such debt with capital from other sources. Under those circumstances, other sources of capital may not be available, or be available only on unattractive terms. TCI’s degree of leverage could limit our ability to obtain additional financing or affect the market price of our common stock. The degree of leverage could affect TCI’s ability to obtain additional financing for working 8 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, development or other general corporate purposes. The degree of leverage could also make TCI more vulnerable to a downturn in business or the general economy. An increase in interest rates would increase interest costs on variable rate debt and could adversely impact the ability to refinance existing debt. TCI currently has, and may incur more, indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates. Accordingly, if interest rates increase, so will the interest costs, which could adversely affect cash flow and the ability to pay principal and interest on TCI’s debt and the ability to make distributions to shareholders. Further, rising interest rates could limit TCI’s ability to refinance existing debt when it matures. Unbudgeted capital expenditures or cost overruns could adversely affect business operations and cash flow. If capital expenditures for ongoing or planned development projects or renovations exceed expectations, the additional cost of these expenditures could have an adverse effect on business operations and cash flow. In addition, TCI might not have access to funds on a timely basis to pay the unexpected expenditures. Construction costs are funded in large part through construction financing, which the Company may guarantee and the Company’s obligation to pay interest on this financing continues until the rental project is completed, leased up and permanent financing is obtained, or the for sale project is sold or the construction loan is otherwise paid. Unexpected delays in completion of one or more ongoing projects could also have a significant adverse impact on business operations and cash flow. TCI may need to sell properties from time-to-time for cash flow purposes. Because of the lack of liquidity of real estate investments generally, TCI’s ability to respond to changing circumstances may be limited. Real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly. In the event that TCI must sell assets to generate cash flow, TCI cannot predict whether there will be a market for those assets in the time period desired, or whether TCI will be able to sell the assets at a price that will allow the Company to fully recoup its investment. TCI may not be able to realize the full potential value of the assets and may incur costs related to the early pay-off of the debt secured by such assets. The Company intends to devote resources to the development of new projects. TCI plans to continue developing new projects as opportunities arise in the future. Development and construction activities entail a number of risks, including but not limited to the following: • TCI may abandon a project after spending time and money determining its feasibility; • construction costs may materially exceed original estimates; • the revenue from a new project may not be enough to make it profitable or generate a positive cash flow; • TCI may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms for development of a property, if at all; • the Company may not complete construction and lease-ups on schedule, resulting in increased development or carrying costs; • TCI may not be able to obtain, or may be delayed in obtaining, necessary governmental permits. The overall business is subject to all of the risks associated with the real estate industry. TCI is subject to all risks incident to investment in real estate, many of which relate to the general lack of liquidity of real estate investments, including, but not limited to: • TCI’s real estate assets are concentrated primarily in the Southwest and any deterioration in the general economic conditions of this region could have an adverse effect; • changes in interest rates may make the ability to satisfy debt service requirements more burdensome; • lack of availability of financing may render the purchase, sale or refinancing of a property more difficult or unattractive; • changes in real estate and zoning laws; • increases in real estate taxes and insurance costs; 9 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • federal or local economic or rent control; • acts of terrorism, and • hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, earthquakes and other similar natural disasters. Risks Related to the Real Estate Industry Real estate investments are illiquid, and the Company may not be able to sell properties if and when it is appropriate to do so. Real estate generally cannot be sold quickly. TCI may not be able to dispose of properties promptly in response to economic or other conditions. In addition, provisions of the Internal Revenue Code may limit TCI’s ability to sell properties (without incurring significant tax costs) in some situations when it may be otherwise economically advantageous to do so, thereby adversely affecting returns to stockholders and adversely impacting TCI’s ability to meet it’s obligations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 