Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, the following factors should be considered in evaluating Intrusion Inc. and our business. Our cash, cash equivalents, and investments increased from $0.4 million at December 31, 2007 to $0.6 million at December 31, 2008. We may not have sufficient cash to operate our business and may not be able to maintain certain liquidity requirements under our existing debt instruments. Additional debt and equity offerings to fund future operations may not be available and, if available, may significantly dilute the value of our currently outstanding common stock. As of December 31, 2008, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $554,000, up from approximately $362,000 as of December 31, 2007. Although we generated net income of $67,000 in the last three quarters of 2008, we had a net loss for the year ended December 31, 2008 of $808,000. We used $112,000 of cash in operations in 2008 and operating cash outflows may continue in 2009. We are obligated to make payments of accrued dividends on all our outstanding shares of preferred stock that will reduce our available cash resources. As of December 31, 2008, we had cash and cash equivalents of $554,000, $48,000 in funding available under our line of credit at Silicon Valley Bank and $1.5 million funding available from a written commitment to invest up to $1.5 million from G. Ward Paxton, the Company’s Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. Based on projections for continued growth in revenue and net income in the coming quarters, a commitment from the Company’s CEO to advance the Company up to an additional $1.5 million in funding should it be necessary and $2.5 million line of credit with borrowings available of $48,000 at December 31, 2008, we believe that our available credit line and available cash resources will provide sufficient cash resources to finance our operations and expected capital expenditures for the next twelve months. We expect to fund our operations through Company profits, our line of credit, borrowings from the Company’s CEO, and possibly additional investments of private equity and debt, which, if we are able to obtain, will have the effect of diluting our existing common stockholders, perhaps significantly. Any equity or debt financings, if available at all, may be on terms which are not favorable to us and, in the case of equity financings, may result in dilution to our stockholders. If our operations do not generate positive cash flow in the upcoming year, or if we are not able to obtain additional debt or equity financing on terms and conditions acceptable to us, if at all, we may be unable to implement our business plan, fund our liquidity needs or even continue our operations. We had a net loss of $0.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 and have an accumulated deficit of $58.3 million as of December 31, 2008. To achieve profitability, we must continue to generate greater revenue levels. We incurred operating losses for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 and have incurred even greater operating losses in previous years. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we incurred a net loss of $0.8 million and had an accumulated deficit of approximately $58.3 million as of December 31, 2008, compared to a net loss of $2.4 million and an accumulated deficit of approximately $57.5 million as of December 31, 2007. We need to generate and sustain substantially greater revenues from the sales of our products if we are to achieve profitability. If we are unable to achieve these greater revenues, our losses will continue for the near term and possibly longer, and we may never achieve or sustain profitability or generate positive cash flow from operations. If our newer products do not achieve market acceptance, our revenue growth may suffer. Our new network security products, entity identification products and regulated information compliance systems have only been in the market place for a limited period of time and may have longer sales cycles than our previous products. Accordingly, we may not achieve the meaningful revenue growth needed to sustain operations. We can provide no assurances that sales of our newer products will continue to grow or generate sufficient revenues to sustain our business. If we are unable to recognize revenues due to longer sales cycles or other problems, our results of operations will be adversely affected, perhaps materially. We have not yet received broad market acceptance for our newer products. We cannot assure you that our present or future products will achieve market acceptance on a sustained basis. In order to achieve market acceptance and achieve future revenue growth, we must introduce complementary security products, incorporate new technologies into our existing product lines and design, develop and successfully commercialize higher performance products in a timely manner. We cannot assure you that we will be able to offer new or complementary products that gain market acceptance quickly enough to avoid decreased revenues during current or future product introductions or transitions. 11 Table of Contents A large percentage of our revenues are received from U.S. government entities, and the loss of one of these customers could reduce our revenues and materially harm our business and prospects. A large percentage of our revenues result from sales to U.S. government entities. If we were to lose one or more of these key relationships, our revenues could decline and our business and prospects may be materially harmed. We expect that even if we are successful in developing relationships with non-governmental customers, our revenues will continue to be concentrated among government entities. For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2007 and 2008, sales to U.S. government entities collectively accounted for 73.6%, 73.2% and 86.2% of our total net revenues, respectively. The loss of any of these key relationships may send a negative message to other U.S. government entities or non-governmental customers concerning our product offering. We cannot assure you that U.S. government entities will be customers of ours in future periods or that we will be able to diversify our customer portfolio to adequately mitigate the risk of loss of any of these customers. Government customers involve unique risks, which could adversely impact our revenues. We expect to continue to derive a substantial portion of our revenues from U.S. government customers in the future. Sales to the government present risks in addition to those involved in sales to commercial customers, including potential disruption due to appropriation and spending patterns, delays in approving a federal budget and the government’s right to cancel contracts and purchase orders for its convenience. General political and economic conditions, which we cannot accurately predict, directly and indirectly may affect the quantity and allocation of expenditures by federal departments. In addition, obtaining government contracts may involve long purchase and payment cycles, competitive bidding, qualification requirements, delays or changes in funding, budgetary constraints, political agendas, extensive specification development and price negotiations and milestone requirements. Each government entity also maintains its own rules and regulations with which we must comply and which can vary significantly among departments. As a result, cutbacks or re-allocations in the federal budget or losses of government sales due to other factors could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and operating results. We are highly dependent on sales made through indirect channels, the loss of which would materially adversely affect our operations. For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2007 and 2008, we derived 17.3%, 19.2% and 33.9% of our revenues from sales through indirect sales channels, such as distributors, value-added resellers, system integrators, original equipment manufacturers and managed service providers. We must expand our sales through these indirect channels in order to increase our revenues. We cannot assure you that our products will gain market acceptance in these indirect sales channels or that sales through these indirect sales channels will increase our revenues. Further, many of our competitors are also trying to sell their products through these indirect sales channels, which could result in lower prices and reduced profit margins for sales of our products. International sales comprise a material portion of our overall revenues. Our ability to sell our products internationally is subject to certain risks, which could harm our business. Revenues from foreign customers for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2006, 2007 and 2008 accounted for approximately 9.4%, 9.2% and 4.7%, respectively, of our revenues. We expect sales to foreign customers to continue to represent a significant portion of our revenues in the future. Our international operations are subject to many inherent risks that may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results, including: · political, social and economic instability; · trade restrictions; · increases in duty rates and other potentially adverse tax consequences; · exposure to different legal standards, particularly with respect to the protection of intellectual property; · burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws; · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; · import and export license requirements and restrictions of the United States and each other country where we operate; · fluctuations in currency exchange rates; and 12 Table of Contents · changes in local purchasing practices, including seasonal fluctuations in demand. Any interruptions or declines in our international sales would result in a significant adverse impact on our results of operations and business. The payment of accrued dividends on our preferred stock may strain our cash resources. On March 25, 2004, we completed a $5,000,000 private placement pursuant to which we issued 1,000,000 shares of our 5% Convertible Preferred Stock (the “Series 1 Preferred Stock”) and warrants to acquire 556,619 shares of our common stock. The conversion price for the Series 1 Preferred Stock and the exercise price of the warrants is $3.144 per share. As of February 28, 2009, there were 259,696 shares of the Series 1 Preferred Stock outstanding, representing approximately 413,003 shares of common stock upon conversion. On March 28, 2005, we completed a $2,663,000 private placement pursuant to which we issued 1,065,200 shares of our Series 2 5% Convertible Preferred Stock (the “Series 2 Preferred Stock”) and warrants to acquire 532,600 shares of our common stock. The conversion price for the Series 2 Preferred Stock is $2.50 per share and the exercise price of the warrants is $2.77 per share. As of February 28, 2009, there were 460,000 shares of the Series 2 Preferred Stock outstanding, representing 460,000 shares of common stock upon conversion. On December 2, 2005, we completed a $1,230,843 private placement pursuant to which we issued 564,607 shares of our Series 3 5% preferred stock (the “Series 3 Preferred Stock”) and warrants to acquire 282,306 shares of our common stock. The preferred shares may be converted into 564,607 shares of common stock at an initial conversion price of $2.18 per share, and the warrants may be exercised at a price of $0.40 per share during the five-year period commencing on June 2, 2006. As of February 28, 2009, there were 354,056 shares of Series 3 Preferred Stock outstanding, representing 354,056 shares of common stock upon conversion. We have been unable to pay scheduled dividends on shares of our preferred stock, and the continued failure to make such payments has resulted in late penalty payments and could potentially result in additional consequences, some of them material. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, we accrued $64,000 in dividends to the holders of our 5% Preferred Stock, $57,000 in dividends to the holders of our Series 2 5% Preferred Stock and $40,000 in dividends to the holders of our Series 3 5% Preferred Stock. At December 31, 2008, we have dividends accrued of $82,000 related to our 5% Preferred Stock, $63,000 related to our Series 2 5% Preferred Stock and $43,000 related to our Series 3 5% Preferred Stock. Delaware law provides that we may only pay dividends out of our capital surplus or, if no surplus is available, out of our net profits for the fiscal year the dividend is declared and/or the preceding fiscal year. We have not had net profits for the last two fiscal years and as of the year ended December 31, 2008, did not have sufficient capital surplus, defined as the amount by which our net assets exceed our stated capital, based on par value of our outstanding shares as provided by Delaware law. We cannot assure you that our net assets will exceed our stated capital or that we will have net profits in order to pay these dividends in the future. These dividends continue to accrue on all our outstanding shares of preferred stock, regardless of whether we are legally able to pay them. Because we were unable to pay dividends on our preferred stock, we began accruing an additional late fee penalty of 18% per annum on the unpaid dividends for the Series 2 Preferred Stock and Series 3 Preferred Stock. Our CEO and outside board member that are invested in Series 2 and Series 3 Preferred Stock have waived the late fee penalty. In addition to this late penalty, the holders of our Series 2 Preferred Stock and Series 3 Preferred Stock could elect to present us with written notice of our failure to pay dividends as scheduled, in which case we would have 45 days to cure such a breach. In the event that we failed to cure the breach, the holders of these shares of preferred stock would then have the right to require us to redeem their shares of preferred stock for a cash amount calculated in accordance with their respective certificates of designation. If we were required to redeem all shares of Series 2 Preferred Stock and Series 3 Preferred Stock as of February 28, 2009, the aggregate redemption price we would owe would be $2.0 million. You will experience substantial dilution upon the conversion or redemption of the shares of preferred stock and the exercise of warrants that we issued in our recent private placements or in the event we raise additional funds through the issuance of new shares of our common stock or securities convertible or exercisable into shares of common stock. On March 13, 2009, we had 11,638,405 shares of common stock outstanding. Upon conversion of all outstanding shares of our preferred stock and exercise of the warrants, we will have 14,389,318 shares of common stock outstanding, approximately a 25.0% increase in the number of shares of our common stock outstanding. 13 Table of Contents Further, the occurrence of certain events could entitle holders of our Series 2 Preferred Stock and Series 3 Preferred Stock to require us to redeem their shares for a certain number of shares of our common stock. Assuming (i) we have paid all liquidated damages and other amounts to the holders, (ii) incurred accrued but unpaid dividends on February 28, 2009 of $120,600, (iii) a volume weighted average price of $0.30, which was the ten-day volume weighted average closing price of our common stock on February 28, 2009, and (iv) our 11,638,405 shares of common stock outstanding on February 28, 2009, upon exercise of their redemption right by the holders of the Series 3 Preferred Stock and the Series 2 Preferred Stock, we would be obligated to issue approximately 11,639,990 shares of our common stock. This would represent an increase of approximately 100.0% in the number of shares of our common stock as of February 28, 2009. In addition, management may issue additional shares of common stock or securities exercisable or convertible into shares of common stock in order to finance our continuing operations. Any future issuances of such securities would have additional dilutive effects on the existing holders of our Common Stock. The conversion of preferred stock or exercise of warrants we issued in the private placements may cause the price of our common stock to decline. The holders of the shares of our 5% Preferred Stock and warrants we issued in connection with the sale of our 5% Preferred Stock may freely convert their shares of preferred stock and exercise their warrants and sell the underlying shares of common stock pursuant to Rule 144 of the Securities and Exchange Commission. As of February 28, 2009, 740,304 shares of our 5% Preferred Stock had converted into 1,177,327 shares of common stock. The holders of the shares of Series 2 5% Preferred Stock and warrants we issued in connection with the sale of our Series 2 Preferred Stock may freely convert their shares of preferred stock and exercise their warrants and sell the underlying shares of common stock pursuant to Rule 144 of the Securities and Exchange Commission. As of February 28, 2009, 605,200 shares of Series 2 Preferred Stock had converted into 605,200 shares of common stock. The holders of the shares of Series 3 5% Preferred Stock and warrants we issued in connection with the sale of our Series 3 Preferred Stock, may freely convert their shares of Series 3 Preferred Stock and exercise their warrants and sell the underlying shares of common stock pursuant to Rule 144 of the Securities and Exchange Commission. As of February 28, 2009, 210,551 shares of Series 3 Preferred Stock had converted into 210,551 shares of common stock. For the four weeks ended on February 28, 2009, the average daily trading volume of our common stock on The OTCBB was 217 shares. Consequently, if holders of preferred stock or warrants elect to convert their remaining shares or exercise their warrants and sell a material amount of their underlying shares of common stock on the open market, the increase in selling activity could cause a decline in the market price of our common stock. Furthermore, these sales, or the potential for these sales, could encourage short sales, causing additional downward pressure on the market price of our common stock. Certain rights of the holders of our preferred stock and the terms of our secured credit line may hinder our ability to raise additional financing. Under the terms of our preferred stock instruments, we cannot issue shares of capital stock with rights senior to those of our existing 5% Preferred Stock, Series 2 5% Preferred Stock or Series 3 5% Preferred Stock without the approval of at least a majority of the holders of our 5% Preferred Stock, all of the holders of our Series 2 5% Preferred Stock, and holders of at least 75% of our Series 3 5% Preferred Stock voting or acting as separate classes. We also cannot incur certain indebtedness without the approval of at least a majority of the holders of each class of our Preferred Stock. Furthermore, the terms of our secured credit line with Silicon Valley Bank include covenants which restrict our ability to incur additional debt and pay certain dividends. The combination of these provisions could hinder or delay our ability to raise additional debt or equity financing. Our failure to realize the expected benefits of our recent restructuring efforts could adversely affect our operating results. Since we began restructuring in 2002, we have incurred approximately $1.1 million in restructuring charges, severance, and related expenses. We have also implemented other strategic initiatives, such as reductions in our work force and facilities and aligning our organization around our business objectives. Any further work force reductions could result in temporary reduced productivity of our remaining employees. Additionally, our customers and prospects may delay or forgo purchasing our products due to a perceived uncertainty caused by our restructuring and other changes. Failure to achieve the desired results of our initiatives could seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. 14 Table of Contents We resemble a developmental stage company and our business strategy may not be successful. From our founding in 1983 until 2000, we derived substantially all of our revenue from the design, manufacture and sale of local area networking equipment. In order to permit us to focus our resources solely on developing and marketing our network security products, we sold our local area networking assets and related networking divisions. We now depend exclusively on revenues generated from the sale of our network security products, which have received limited market acceptance. We have recently introduced our regulated information compliance systems and entity identification products, and the market for these products has only begun to emerge. We can provide no assurances that our newly introduced products will ever achieve widespread market acceptance or that an adequate market for these products will ever emerge. Consequently, we resemble a developmental stage company and will face the following inherent risks and uncertainties: · the need for our network security products, regulated information compliance systems and entity identification products to achieve market acceptance and produce a sustainable revenue stream; · our ability to manage costs and expenses; · our dependence on key personnel; · our ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms; and · our ability to offer greater value than our competitors. Our business strategy may not successfully address these risks. If we fail to recognize significant revenues from the sales of our network security products, regulated information compliance systems and entity identification products, our business, financial condition and operating results would be materially adversely affected. Our management and larger stockholders exercise significant control over our company and have the ability to approve or take actions that may be adverse to your interests. As of March 20, 2009, our executive officers, directors and preferred stockholders beneficially own approximately 30.0% of our voting power. As a result, these stockholders will be able to exercise significant control over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, which could delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us. These stockholders may use their influence to approve or take actions that may be adverse to your interests. Further, we contemplate the possible issuance of shares of our Common Stock or of securities exercisable or convertible into shares of our Common Stock in the future by our Chief Executive Officer. Any such issuance will increase the percentage of stock our Chief Executive Officer and our management group beneficially holds. We face intense competition from both start-up and established companies that may have significant advantages over us and our products. The market for network security solutions is intensely competitive. There are numerous companies competing with us in various segments of the data security markets, and their products may have advantages over our products in areas such as conformity to existing and emerging industry standards, interoperability with networking and other security products, management and security capabilities, performance, price, ease of use, scalability, reliability, flexibility, product features and technical support. Our principal competitors in the network intrusion prevention and detection market include Internet Security Systems, Inc. (IBM), Cisco Systems, Inc., Symantec, Inc., Juniper Networks, Inc., McAfee Inc., Tipping Point Technologies, a division of 3Com Corporation, and NFR Security, Inc. Our competitors in the regulated information compliance market include Vontu (Symantec), Port Authority (Websense), Vericept, Reconnex (McAfee Inc.), Tablus (RSA Security) and a small number of start-up companies that entered the space within the last two years. Our current and potential competitors may have one or more of the following significant advantages over us: · greater financial, technical and marketing resources; · better name recognition; · more comprehensive security solutions; 15 Table of Contents · better or more extensive cooperative relationships; and · larger customer base. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully with our existing or new competitors. Some of our competitors may have, in relation to us, one or more of the following: longer operating histories, longer-standing relationships with OEM and end-user customers and greater customer service, public relations and other resources. As a result, these competitors may be able to more quickly develop or adapt to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products. Additionally, it is likely that new competitors or alliances among existing competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. If we fail to respond to rapid technological changes in the network security industry, we may lose customers or our products may become obsolete. The network security industry is characterized by frequent product introductions, rapidly changing technology and continued evolution of new industry standards. We must also introduce upgrades to our products rapidly in response to customer needs such as new computer viruses or other novel external attacks on computer networks. In addition, the nature of the network security industry requires our products to be compatible and interoperable with numerous security products, networking products, workstation and personal computer architectures and computer and network operating systems offered by various vendors, including our competitors. As a result, our success depends upon our ability to develop and introduce in a timely manner new products and enhancements to our existing products that meet changing customer requirements and evolving industry standards. The development of technologically advanced network security products is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation, rapid response and accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify, develop, manufacture, market or support new or enhanced products successfully in a timely manner. Further, we or our competitors may introduce new products or product enhancements that shorten the life cycle of our existing products or cause our existing products to become obsolete. Our products are highly technical and if they contain undetected errors, our business could be adversely affected and we might have to defend lawsuits or pay damages in connection with any alleged or actual failure of our products and services. Our products are highly technical and complex, are critical to the operation of many networks and, in the case of our security products, provide and monitor network security and may protect valuable information. Our products have contained and may contain one or more undetected errors, defects or security vulnerabilities. Some errors in our products may only be discovered after a product has been installed and used by end customers. Any errors or security vulnerabilities discovered in our products after commercial release could result in loss of revenues or delay in revenue recognition, loss of customers and increased service and warranty cost, any of which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, we could face claims for product liability, tort or breach of warranty. Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert management’s attention. In addition, if our business liability insurance coverage is inadequate or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, our financial condition could be harmed. A breach of network security could harm public perception of our security products, which could cause us to lose revenues. If an actual or perceived breach of network security occurs in the network of a customer of our security products, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our products, the market perception of the effectiveness of our products could be harmed. This could cause us to lose current and potential end customers or cause us to lose current and potential value-added resellers and distributors. Because the techniques used by computer hackers to access or sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques. If our products do not interoperate with our customers’ networks, installations will be delayed or cancelled and could harm our business. Our products are designed to interface with our customers’ existing networks, each of which have different specifications and utilize multiple protocol standards and products from other vendors. Many of our customers’ networks contain multiple generations of products that have been added over time as these networks have grown and evolved. Our products will be required to interoperate with many or all of the products within these networks as well as future products in 16 Table of Contents order to meet our customers’ requirements. If we find errors in the existing software or defects in the hardware used in our customers’ networks, we may have to modify our software or hardware to fix or overcome these errors so that our products will interoperate and scale with the existing software and hardware, which could be costly and negatively impact our operating results. In addition, if our products do not interoperate with those of our customers’ networks, demand for our products could be adversely affected, orders for our products could be cancelled or our products could be returned. This could hurt our operating results, damage our reputation and seriously harm our business and prospects. Our products can have long sales and implementation cycles, which may result in us incurring substantial expenses before realizing any associated revenues. The sale and implementation of our products to large companies and government entities typically involves a lengthy education process and a significant technical evaluation and commitment of capital and other resources. This process is also subject to the risk of delays associated with customers’ internal budgeting and other procedures for approving capital expenditures, deploying new technologies within their networks and testing and accepting new technologies that affect key operations. As a result, sales and implementation cycles for our products can be lengthy, and we may expend significant time and resources before we receive any revenues from a customer or potential customer. Our quarterly and annual operating results could be materially harmed if orders forecasted for a specific customer for a particular period are not realized. Consolidation in the network security industry may limit market acceptance of our products. Several of our competitors have acquired security companies with complementary technologies in the past. We expect consolidation in the network security industry to continue in the future. These acquisitions may permit our competitors to accelerate the development and commercialization of broader product lines and more comprehensive solutions than we currently offer. Acquisitions of vendors or other companies with which we have a strategic relationship by our competitors may limit our access to commercially significant technologies. Further, business combinations in the network security industry are creating companies with larger market shares, customer bases, sales forces, product offerings and technology and marketing expertise, which may make it more difficult for us to compete. We must adequately protect our intellectual property in order to prevent loss of valuable proprietary information. We rely primarily on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and non-disclosure agreements to protect our proprietary technology. However, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or reverse-engineer aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property. This is particularly true in foreign countries where the laws may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States and may not provide us with an effective remedy against unauthorized use. If our protection of our intellectual property proves to be inadequate or unenforceable, others may be able to use our proprietary developments without compensation to us, resulting in potential cost advantages to our competitors. We may incur substantial expenses defending ourselves against claims of infringement. There are numerous patents held by many companies relating to the design and manufacture of network security systems. Third parties may claim that our products infringe on their intellectual property rights. Any claim, with or without merit, could consume our management’s time, result in costly litigation, cause delays in sales or implementations of our products or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Royalty and licensing agreements, if required and available, may be on terms unacceptable to us or detrimental to our business. Moreover, a successful claim of product infringement against us or our failure or inability to license the infringed or similar technology on commercially reasonable terms could seriously harm our business. Fluctuations in our quarterly revenues may cause the price of our common stock to decline. Our operating results have varied significantly from quarter to quarter in the past, and we expect our operating results to vary from quarter to quarter in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Significant portions of our expenses are not variable in the short term and we cannot reduce them quickly to respond to unexpected decreases in revenues. Therefore, if revenues are below our expectations, this shortfall is likely to adversely and disproportionately affect our operating results. Accordingly, we may not attain positive operating margins in future quarters. Any of these factors could cause our operating results to be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which likely would negatively affect the price of our common stock. 17 Table of Contents The price of our common stock has been volatile in the past and may continue to be volatile in the future due to factors outside of our control. The market price of our common stock has been highly volatile in the past and may continue to be volatile in the future. For example, in fiscal year 2008, the market price of our common stock on The OTCBB Market fluctuated between $0.13 and $0.41 per share. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, many of which are outside our control, including: · variations in our quarterly operating results; · changes in estimates of our financial performance by securities analysts; · changes in market valuations of our competitors; · announcements by us or our competitors of new products, significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · product or design flaws, product recalls or similar occurrences; · additions or departures of key personnel; · sales of common stock in the future; and · fluctuations in stock market prices and volume, which can be particularly common among network security and other high technology companies. Our past reductions in our work force may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain the personnel necessary to successfully operate our business. We rely upon the continued service of a relatively small number of key technical, sales and senior management personnel. Our future success depends on retaining our key employees and our continuing ability to attract, train and retain other highly qualified technical, sales and managerial personnel. We do not have employment agreements with our key technical, sales and senior management personnel. As a result, our employees could resign with little or no prior notice. We may not be able to attract, assimilate or retain other highly qualified technical, sales and managerial personnel in the future. The loss of any of our key technical, sales and senior management personnel or our inability to attract, train and retain additional qualified personnel could seriously harm our business. Our acquisition of complementary products or businesses may adversely affect our financial condition. We have made acquisitions in the past and, in the future we may acquire or invest in additional companies, business units, product lines or technologies to accelerate the development of products and sales channels complementary to our existing products and sales channels. Negotiation of potential acquisitions and integration of acquired products, technologies or businesses could divert our management’s time and resources. Future acquisitions could cause us to issue equity securities that would dilute your ownership of us, incur debt or contingent liabilities, amortize intangible assets or write off in-process research and development, goodwill and other acquisition-related expenses that could seriously harm our financial condition and operating results. Further, if we are not able to properly integrate acquired products, technologies or businesses with our existing products and operations, train, retain and motivate personnel from the acquired business or combine potentially different corporate cultures, we may not receive the intended benefits of our acquisitions, which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Compliance with export regulations may hinder our sales to foreign customers. Certain of our data security products incorporate encryption and other technology that may require clearance and export licenses from the U.S. Department of Commerce under United States export regulations. Any inability to obtain these clearances or licenses or any foreign regulatory approvals, if required, on a timely basis could delay sales and have a material adverse effect on our operating results. 18 Table of Contents 