ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investments in CNB Financial Corporation common stock involve risk. The market price of CNB Financial Corporation common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of items which are mainly beyond the control of the Corporation and could include, but are not limited to, the following: — Changes in the market valuations of similar corporations — Changes in interest rates — Volatility of stock market prices and volumes — Rumors or erroneous information — New developments in the financial services industry — Variations in quarterly or annual operating results — Litigation or regulatory actions — Changes in accounting policies or procedures as may be required by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other regulatory agencies. — Business conditions in the communities we serve — Economic and political conditions — Credit standards — Additional capital for future — Competition — Allowance for loans losses If CNB Financial Corporation does not adjust to future changes in the financial services industry, its financial performance may suffer. As such, the Corporation’s ability to maintain its history of strong financial performance and return on investment to shareholders will depend in part on its ability to expand its scope of available financial services to its customers. In addition to other banks, competitors include securities dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers, investment advisors, and finance and insurance companies. The increasingly competitive environment is, in part, a result of changes in regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems, and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers. Future governmental regulation and legislation could limit growth. CNB Financial Corporation and its subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and legislation that govern nearly every aspect of its operations. Changes to these laws could affect CNB Financial Corporation’s ability to deliver or expand its services and diminish the value of its business. Changes in interest rates could reduce income and cash flow. CNB Financial Corporation’s income and cash flow depends to a great extent on the difference between the interest earned on loans and investment securities, and the interest paid on deposits and other borrowings. Interest rates are beyond CNB Financial Corporation’s control, and they fluctuate in response to general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular, the Federal Reserve Board. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence the origination of loans, the purchase of investments, the generation of deposits and the rates received on loans and investment securities and paid on deposits. Additional factors could have a negative effect on the financial performance of CNB Financial Corporation and CNB Financial Corporation common stock. Some of these factors are general economic and financial market conditions, competition, continuing consolidation in the financial services industry, litigation, regulatory actions, and losses. 10 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 