ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations are subject to various risks inherent in the its business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect the Corporation are described below. If any of these risks actually occur, the Corporation’s business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. You should consider all of the following risks together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected the banking and financial services industry and the Corporation’s business, and a continuation of these conditions could adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. Dramatic declines in the national housing market since 2008, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities as well as major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative and cash securities, in turn, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets could adversely affect the Corporation’s business, financial condition and results of operations. In particular, the Corporation may face the following risks in connection with these events: — The Corporation expects to face increased regulation of the banking and financial services industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase its costs and limit its ability to pursue business opportunities. — Market developments may affect customer confidence levels and may cause increases in loan delinquencies and default rates, which management expects would adversely impact the Bank’s charge-offs and provision for loan losses. — Market developments may adversely affect the Bank’s securities portfolio by causing other-than-temporary-impairments, prompting write-downs and securities losses. — The Corporation’s and the Bank’s ability to borrow from other financial institutions or to access the debt or equity capital markets on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations. — Competition in banking and financial services industry could intensify as a result of the increasing consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market conditions. — The Bank may be required to pay significantly higher premiums to the FDIC because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. 16 Table of Contents The Bank’s allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover loan losses which could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s business, financial condition and results of operations. A significant source of risk for the Corporation arises from the possibility that losses will be sustained because borrowers, guarantors and related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loan agreements. Most loans originated by the Bank are secured, but some loans are unsecured based upon management’s evaluation of the creditworthiness of the borrowers. With respect to secured loans, the collateral securing the repayment of these loans principally includes a wide variety of real estate, and to a lesser extent personal property, either of which may be insufficient to cover the obligations owed under such loans. Collateral values and the financial performance of borrowers may be adversely affected by changes in prevailing economic, environmental and other conditions, including declines in the value of real estate, changes in interest rates and debt service levels, changes in oil and gas prices, changes in monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government, widespread disease, terrorist activity, environmental contamination and other external events, which are beyond the control of the Bank. In addition, collateral appraisals that are out of date or that do not meet industry recognized standards might create the impression that a loan is adequately collateralized when in fact it is not. Although the Bank may acquire any real estate or other assets that secure defaulted loans through foreclosures or other similar remedies, the amounts owed under the defaulted loans may exceed the value of the assets acquired. The allowance for loan losses is subject to a formal analysis by the credit administrator of CNB using a methodology whereby loan pools are segregated into special mention, substandard, doubtful and unclassified categories and the pools are evaluated based on historical loss factors. The Bank monitors delinquencies and losses on a monthly basis. The Bank has adopted underwriting and credit monitoring policies and procedures, including the review of borrower financial statements and collateral appraisals, which management believes are appropriate to mitigate the risk of loss by assessing the likelihood of borrower non-performance and the value of available collateral. The Bank also manages credit risk by diversifying its loan portfolio. An ongoing independent review, subsequent to management’s review, of individual credits is performed by an independent loan review function, which reports to the Loan Committee of the Corporation’s Board of Directors. However, such policies and procedures have limitations, including judgment errors in management’s risk analysis, and may not prevent unexpected losses that could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Interest rate volatility could significantly reduce the Corporation’s profitability. The Corporation’s earnings largely depend on the relationship between the yield on its earning assets, primarily loans and investment securities, and the cost of funds, primarily deposits and borrowings. This relationship, commonly known as the net interest margin, is susceptible to significant fluctuation and is affected by economic and competitive factors that influence the yields and rates, and the volume and mix of the Bank’s interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities. Interest rate risk can be defined as the sensitivity of net interest income and of the market value of financial instruments to the direction and frequency of changes in interest rates. Interest rate risk arises from the imbalance in the re-pricing, maturity and/or cash flow characteristics of assets and liabilities. The Corporation is subject to interest rate risk to the degree that its interest bearing liabilities re-price or mature more slowly or more rapidly or on a different basis than its interest earning assets. Changes 17 Table of Contents in interest rates will affect the levels of income and expense recorded on a large portion of the Bank’s assets and liabilities, and fluctuations in interest rates will impact the market value of all interest sensitive assets. Significant fluctuations in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the Corporation’s business, financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. The Bank’s interest rate risk measurement and management techniques incorporate the re-pricing and cash flow attributes of its balance sheet and off-balance sheet instruments as they relate to current and potential changes in interest rates. The level of interest rate risk, measured in terms of the potential future effect on earnings, is determined through the use of static gap analysis and earnings simulation modeling under multiple interest rate scenarios. Management’s objectives are to measure, monitor and develop strategies in response to the interest rate risk profile inherent in the Bank’s balance sheet in order to preserve the sensitivity of net interest income to actual or potential changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2010, the interest rate sensitivity position was asset sensitive in the short-term. For further information on risk relating to interest rates, refer to Part I, Item 7a, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk,” herein. The Corporation cannot assure you that recent actions by governmental agencies and regulators, as well as recently enacted legislation, will stabilize the U.S. financial system, and new legislation may significantly affect the Corporation’s financial condition. Beginning in 2008 and continuing into 2009 and 2010, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the United States Congress, the United States Department of the Treasury, the FDIC and others have taken numerous steps to stabilize and stimulate the financial services industry. These measures include: (1) homeowner relief that encourages loan restructuring and modification; (2) the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; (3) the lowering of the federal funds rate; and (4) coordinated efforts to address liquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. The Corporation cannot predict the actual impact, if any, that new legislation or other governmental initiatives will have on the economy or the financial markets, or whether any impact will be positive or negative. The failure of legislation or other initiatives to stabilize the financial markets could weaken public confidence in financial institutions and have a substantial and material adverse effect on the Corporation’s business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit, or the trading price of our common stock. Additionally, compliance with such initiatives may increase the Corporation’s costs and limit its ability to pursue business opportunities, and participation in specific programs may subject it to additional restrictions. Further, it may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums in the future if market developments which have significantly depleted the FDIC insurance fund and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits continue. The Bank’s loans are principally concentrated in certain areas of Pennsylvania, and adverse economic conditions in those markets could adversely affect the Corporation’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation’s success is dependent to a significant extent upon general economic conditions in the United States and, in particular, the local economies in northwest and central Pennsylvania, the primary markets served by the Bank. The Bank is particularly exposed to real estate and economic factors in the northwest and central areas of Pennsylvania, as most of its loan portfolio is concentrated among borrowers in these markets. Furthermore, because a substantial portion of the Bank’s loan portfolio is secured by real estate in these areas, the value of the associated collateral is also subject to regional real estate market conditions. 18 Table of Contents Since 2008, the financial and capital marketplaces have been affected by significant disruption and volatility. This turbulence has been attributable to a variety of factors, including the fallout associated with the subprime mortgage market. One aspect of this fallout has been significant deterioration in the activity of the secondary residential mortgage market. These disruptions have been exacerbated by the continued decline of the real estate housing market along with significant mortgage loan related losses incurred by many lending institutions. The turmoil in the mortgage market has impacted the global markets as well as the domestic markets and has led to a significant credit and liquidity crisis. In addition, the significant decline in economic growth, both nationally and globally, led to a national economy in deep recession. The Bank is not immune to negative consequences arising from overall economic weakness and, in particular, a sharp downturn in the real estate market. While the Bank’s loan portfolio has not shown significant signs of credit quality deterioration to the extent of national markets, we cannot assure you that these conditions will continue. An economic recession in the markets served by the Bank, and the nation as a whole, could negatively impact household and corporate incomes. This impact could lead to decreased loan demand and increase the number of borrowers who fail to pay the Bank interest or principal on their loans, and accordingly, could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s business, financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. The Corporation’s investment securities portfolio is subject to credit risk, market risk, and liquidity risk, and declines in value in its investment securities portfolio may require it to record other- than- temporary impairment charges that could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition. The Corporation’s investment securities portfolio has risks beyond its control that can significantly influence the portfolio’s fair value. These factors include, but are not limited to, rating agency downgrades of the securities, defaults of the issuers of the securities, lack of market pricing of the securities, and continued instability in the credit markets. Recent lack of market activity with respect to certain of the securities has, in certain circumstances, required the Corporation to base its fair market valuation on unobservable inputs. The Corporation has engaged valuation experts to price these certain securities using proprietary models, which incorporate assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the securities, including bid/ask spreads and liquidity and credit premiums. Any change in current accounting principles or interpretations of these principles could impact the Corporation’s assessment of fair value and thus its determination of other-than-temporary impairment of the securities in its investment securities portfolio. The Bank may be required to record other-than-temporary impairment charges on its investment securities if they suffer declines in value that are considered other-than-temporary. Numerous factors, including collateral deterioration underlying certain private label mortgage-backed securities, lack of liquidity for re-sales of certain investment securities, absence of reliable pricing information for certain investment securities, adverse changes in business climate, adverse actions by regulators, or unanticipated changes in the competitive environment could have a negative effect the Bank’s securities portfolio in future periods. An other-than-temporary impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s results of operations and financial condition. 19 Table of Contents The Corporation’s business and that of the Bank is highly regulated and impacted by monetary policy, limiting the manner in which the Corporation and the Bank may conduct business and obtain financing, and modifications to the existing regulatory framework under which the Corporation operates could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. As a financial holding company and state-chartered financial institution, respectively, the Corporation and the Bank are subject to extensive regulation and supervision under federal and state laws and regulations. The restrictions imposed by such laws and regulations limit the manner in which the Corporation and the Bank conduct business, undertake new investments and activities, and obtain financing. These laws and regulations are designed primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance funds and consumers and not to benefit shareholders. These laws and regulations may sometimes impose significant limitations on the Corporation’s operations. These regulations, along with the existing tax, accounting, securities, insurance, and monetary laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies and interpretations control the methods by which financial institutions conduct business, implement strategic initiatives and tax compliance, and govern financial reporting and disclosures. These laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies and interpretations are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time. The nature, extent, and timing of the adoption of significant new laws and regulations, including laws currently proposed in the U.S. Congress, or changes in or repeal of existing laws and regulations, or specific actions of our regulators, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Furthermore, federal monetary policy, particularly as implemented through the Federal Reserve System, significantly affects credit risk and interest rate risk conditions for the Bank and the Corporation, and any unfavorable change in these conditions could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Compliance with the Recently Enacted Dodd-Frank Act Will Increase Our Regulatory Compliance Burdens, and May Increase Our Operating Costs and/or Adversely Impact Our Earnings and/or Capital Ratios. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) into law. The Dodd-Frank Act represents a significant overhaul of many aspects of the regulation of the financial-services industry. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act creates a new federal Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”), tightens capital standards, imposes clearing and margining requirements on many derivatives activities, and generally increases oversight and regulation of financial institutions and financial activities. In addition to the self-implementing provisions of the statute, the Dodd-Frank Act calls for over 200 administrative rulemakings by various federal agencies to implement various parts of the legislation. While some rules have been finalized and/or issued in proposed form, many have yet to be proposed. It is impossible to predict when all such additional rules will be issued or finalized, and what the content of such rules will be. We will have to apply resources to ensure that we are in compliance with all applicable provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and any implementing rules, which may increase our costs of operations and adversely impact our earnings. The Dodd-Frank Act and any implementing rules that are ultimately issued could have adverse implications on the financial industry, the competitive environment, and/or our ability to conduct business. 20 Table of Contents The Corporation relies on its management and other key personnel, and the loss of any of them may adversely affect its operations. The Corporation is and will continue to be dependent upon the services of its executive management team. In addition, it will continue to depend on its ability to retain and recruit key client relationship managers. The unexpected loss of services of any key management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on its business and financial condition. Strong competition within the Corporation’s markets may have a material adverse impact on its profitability. The Corporation competes with an ever-increasing array of financial service providers. As noted above, as a financial holding company and state-chartered financial institution, respectively, the Corporation and the Bank are subject to extensive regulation and supervision, including, in many cases, regulations that limit the type and scope of activities. The non-bank financial service providers that compete with the Corporation and the Bank may not be subject to such extensive regulation, supervision, and tax burden. Competition from nationwide banks, as well as local institutions, is strong in the Corporation’s markets. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological change. In addition to improving customer services, effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. Furthermore, technological advances are likely to intensify competition by enabling more companies to provide financial resources. Accordingly, the Corporation’s future success will depend in part on its ability to address customer needs by using technology. The Corporation cannot assure you that it will be able to develop new technology driven products and services, or be successful in marketing these products to its customers. Many of its competitors have far greater resources to invest in technology. Regional, national and international competitors have far greater assets and capitalization than the Corporation has and they have greater access to capital markets and can offer a broader array of financial services than it can. We cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to compete effectively with other financial institutions in the future. Furthermore, developments increasing the nature or level of competition could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s business, financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. For further information on competition, refer to Part I, Item 1, “Competition” herein. Non-compliance with applicable laws and/or regulations, including the Bank Secrecy Act and USA Patriot Act, may adversely affect the Corporation’s operations and its financial results and could result in significant fines or sanctions. Federal and state regulators have the ability to impose substantial sanctions, restrictions and requirements on the Corporation’s banking and nonbanking subsidiaries if they determine, upon examination or otherwise, that it has violated laws or regulations with which it or its subsidiaries must comply, or that weaknesses or failures exist with respect to general standards of safety and soundness. Such enforcement may be formal or informal and can include, among other things, civil money penalties and orders to take certain actions or to refrain from certain actions. The imposition of regulatory sanctions, including any monetary penalties, may have a material impact on the 21 Table of Contents Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations, damage its reputation, and/or cause it to lose its financial holding company status. In addition, compliance with any such action could distract management’s attention from the Corporation’s operations, cause the Corporation to incur significant expenses, restrict it from engaging in potentially profitable activities, and limit its ability to raise capital. The USA Patriot and Bank Secrecy Acts require financial institutions to develop programs to prevent the institutions from being used for money laundering and terrorist activities. If certain activities are detected, financial institutions are obligated to file suspicious activity reports with the U.S. Treasury Department’s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. These rules also require financial institutions to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of customers seeking to open new financial accounts or conduct transactions, and require the filing of certain reports, such as those for cash transactions above a certain threshold. Financial institutions must also refrain from transacting business with certain countries or persons designated by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. Non-compliance with laws and regulations such as these could result in significant fines or sanctions. These particular laws and regulations have significant implications for all financial institutions, establish new crimes and penalties, and require the federal banking agencies, in reviewing merger and acquisition transactions, to consider the effectiveness of the parties to such transactions in combating money laundering and terrorist activities. Even inadvertent non-compliance and technical failure to follow the regulations may result in significant fines or other penalties, which could have a material adverse impact on the Corporation’s business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. The Corporation is exposed to a variety of operational risks that could result in significant financial losses. The Corporation is exposed to many types of operational risk, including reputation risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or record-keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems. Negative public opinion can result from actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance and acquisitions, and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect the Corporation’s ability to attract and keep customers and can expose the Corporation to litigation and regulatory action. Given the volume of transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully rectified. The Corporation’s necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process transaction volumes may further increase the risk that technical system flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. The Corporation may also be subject to disruptions of its operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond its control (for example, computer viruses, computer hacking or electrical or telecommunication outages), which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or liability. The Corporation is further exposed to the risk that its external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as the Corporation is) and to the risk that the Corporation’s (or our vendors’) business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. The Corporation regularly assesses the level of operational risk throughout the organization and has established systems of internal controls that provide for timely and accurate information. Testing of the 22 Table of Contents operating effectiveness of these control systems is performed regularly. While not providing absolute assurance, these systems of internal controls have been designed to manage operational risks at appropriate, cost-effective levels. Procedures exist that are designed to ensure policies relating to conduct, ethics, and business practices are followed. From time to time losses from operational risk may occur, including the effects of operational errors. Such losses are recorded as non-interest expense. While the Corporation continually monitors and improves its system of internal controls, data processing systems, and corporate-wide risk management processes and procedures, it cannot assure you that future losses arising from operational risk will not occur and have a material impact on its business, financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. The Corporation may not be able to meet its cash flow needs on a timely basis at a reasonable cost, and the Corporation’s cost of funds for banking operations may significantly increase as a result of general economic conditions, interest rates and competitive pressures. Liquidity is the ability to meet cash flow obligations as they come due and cash flow needs on a timely basis and at a reasonable cost. The liquidity of the Bank is used to make loans and to repay deposit and borrowing liabilities as they become due, or are demanded by customers and creditors. Many factors affect the Bank’s ability to meet liquidity needs, including variations in the markets served by its network of offices, its mix of assets and liabilities, reputation and standing in the marketplace, and general economic conditions. The Bank’s primary source of funding is retail deposits, gathered throughout its network of banking offices. Periodically, the Corporation utilizes term borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh, or FHLB, of which the Bank is a member, and other lenders to meet funding obligations. The Bank’s securities and loan portfolios provide a source of contingent liquidity that could be accessed in a reasonable time period through sales. Significant changes in general economic conditions, market interest rates, competitive pressures or otherwise, could cause the Bank’s deposits to decrease relative to overall banking operations, and it would have to rely more heavily on brokered funds and borrowings in the future, which are typically more expensive than deposits. Management and the Board of Directors of CNB, through its Asset/Liability Committee, or the ALCO, monitor liquidity and the ALCO establishes and monitors acceptable liquidity ranges. The Bank actively manages its liquidity position through target ratios. Continual monitoring of these ratios, both historical and through forecasts under multiple rate scenarios, allows the Bank to employ strategies necessary to maintain adequate liquidity. Changes in economic conditions, including consumer savings habits and availability of or access to capital, could potentially have a significant impact on the Bank’s liquidity position, which in turn could materially impact the Corporation’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Recent levels of market volatility remain elevated, which may have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s ability to access capital and on the Corporation’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption since early 2008. In the fourth quarter of 2008, the volatility and disruption reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the 23 Table of Contents markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If the current recovery stalls and current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, the Corporation cannot assure you that the Corporation will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on its ability to access capital and on its business, financial condition and results of operations. A substantial decline in the value of the Bank’s FHLB common stock may adversely affect the Corporation’s results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. As a requirement of membership in the FHLB of Pittsburgh, the Bank must own a minimum required amount of FHLB stock, calculated periodically based primarily on its level of borrowings from the FHLB. Borrowings from the FHLB represent the Bank’s primary source of short-term and long-term wholesale funding. In an extreme situation, it is possible that the capitalization of a FHLB, including FHLB of Pittsburgh, could be substantially diminished or reduced to zero. Consequently, given that there is no market for the Bank’s FHLB common stock, the Corporation’s management believes that there is a risk that the Corporation’s investment could be deemed impaired at some time in the future. If this occurs, it may adversely affect the Corporation’s results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if the capitalization of FHLB of Pittsburgh is substantially diminished, the Bank’s liquidity may be adversely impaired if it is not able to obtain alternative sources of funding. There are 12 banks of the FHLB, including Pittsburgh. To conserve capital, some FHLB banks are suspending dividends, cutting dividend payments, and not buying back excess FHLB stock that member banks hold. The 12 FHLB banks are jointly liable for the consolidated obligations of the FHLB system. To the extent that one FHLB bank cannot meet its obligations to pay its share of the system’s debt, other FHLB banks can be called upon to make the payment. The Corporation cannot assure you, however, that the FHLB system will be able to meet these obligations. The Bank could be held responsible for environmental liabilities relating to properties acquired through foreclosure, resulting in significant financial loss. In the event the Bank forecloses on a defaulted commercial or residential mortgage loan to recover its investment, it may be subject to environmental liabilities in connection with the underlying real property, which could significantly exceed the value of the real property. Although the Bank exercises due diligence to discover potential environmental liabilities prior to acquiring any property through foreclosure, hazardous substances or wastes, contaminants, pollutants, or their sources may be discovered on properties during its ownership or after a sale to a third party. The Corporation cannot assure you that the Bank would not incur full recourse liability for the entire cost of any removal and cleanup on an acquired property, that the cost of removal and cleanup would not exceed the value of the property, or that the Bank could recover any of the costs from any third party. Losses arising from environmental liabilities could have a material adverse impact on the Corporation’s business, financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. Federal and state governments could pass legislation responsive to current credit conditions which could cause the Corporation to experience higher credit losses. The Corporation could experience higher credit losses because of federal or state legislation or regulatory action that reduces the amount the Bank’s borrowers are otherwise contractually required to 24 Table of Contents pay under existing loan contracts. Also, the Corporation could experience higher credit losses because of federal or state legislation or regulatory action that limits the Bank’s ability to foreclose on property or other collateral or makes foreclosure less economically feasible. The Corporation cannot assure you that future legislation will not significantly and adversely impact its ability to collect on its current loans or foreclose on collateral. The preparation of the Corporation’s financial statements requires the use of estimates that could significantly vary from actual results, which could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. requires management to make significant estimates that affect the financial statements. For example, one of these significant estimates is the allowance for loan losses. Due to the inherent nature of estimates, the Corporation cannot provide absolute assurance that it will not significantly increase the allowance for loan losses and/or sustain credit losses that are significantly higher than the provided allowance, which could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. The Corporation’s financial results may be subject to the impact of changes in accounting standards or interpretation in new or existing standards. From time to time the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, and the SEC change accounting regulations and reporting standards that govern the preparation of the Corporation’s financial statements. In addition, the FASB, SEC, bank regulators and the outside independent auditors may revise their previous interpretations regarding existing accounting regulations and the application of these accounting standards. These revisions in their interpretations are out of the Corporation’s control and may have a material impact on its financial statements. The Corporation’s information technology systems may be vulnerable to attack or other technological failures, exposing it to significant loss. The Corporation depends upon data processing software, communication and information exchange on a variety of computing platforms and networks including the Internet. Despite instituted safeguards, the Corporation cannot be certain that all of its systems are entirely free from vulnerability to electronic attack or other technological difficulties or failures. The Corporation also relies on the services of a variety of third party vendors to meet its data processing and communication needs. If information security is breached or other technology difficulties or failures occur, information may be misappropriated, services and operations may be interrupted and the Corporation could be exposed to claims from customers, suffer loss of business and suffer loss of reputation in its marketplace. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Customer information may be obtained and used fraudulently, which may negatively impact the Corporation’s reputation and customer base, cause increased regulatory scrutiny and expose the Corporation to litigation. Risk of theft of customer information resulting from security breaches by third parties exposes the Corporation to reputation risk and potential monetary loss. CNB has exposure to fraudulent use of its customers’ personal information resulting from its general business operations and through customer use of financial instruments such as debit cards. While CNB has policies and procedures designed to 25 Table of Contents prevent or limit the effect of this risk, the Corporation cannot assure you that any such security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any security breaches could damage CNB’s reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject CNB to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose CNB to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on CNB’s financial condition and results of operations. The soundness of other financial institutions with which the Corporation does business could adversely affect the Corporation’s business, financial condition or results of operations. The financial services industry and the securities markets have been materially adversely affected by significant declines in values of almost all asset classes and by a lack of liquidity in the capital and credit markets. Financial institutions specifically have been subject to increased volatility and an overall loss in investor confidence. Financial institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, investment or other relationships. The Corporation routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry such as commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks and other institutional clients for a range of transactions including loan participations, derivatives and hedging transactions. In addition, the Corporation invests in securities or loans originated or issued by financial institutions or supported by the loans they originate. Many of these transactions expose the Corporation to credit or investment risk in the event of default by the Corporation’s counterparty. In addition, the Corporation’s credit risk may be exacerbated if the collateral it holds cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or other exposure to the Corporation. The Corporation could incur losses to its securities portfolio as a result of these issues. These types of losses may have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s business, financial condition or results of operation. Some provisions contained in the Corporation’s articles of incorporation and its bylaws and under Pennsylvania law could deter a takeover attempt or delay changes in control or management of the Corporation. Certain anti-takeover provisions of the Pennsylvania Business Corporation Law of 1988, as amended, apply to Pennsylvania registered corporations (e.g., publicly traded companies) including, but not limited to, those relating to (1) control share acquisitions, (2) disgorgement of profits by certain controlling persons, (3) business combination transactions with interested shareholders, and (4) the rights of shareholders to demand fair value for their stock following a control transaction. Pennsylvania law permits corporations to opt-out of these anti-takeover provisions, but the Corporation has not done so. Such provisions could have the effect of deterring takeovers or delaying changes in control or management of the Corporation. Additionally, such provisions could limit the price that some investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of the Corporation’s common stock. For example, the Corporation’s amended and restated articles of incorporation require the affirmative vote of 66% of the outstanding shares entitled to vote to effect a business combination. In addition, the Corporation’s amended and restated articles of incorporation, subject to the limitations prescribed in such articles and subject to limitations prescribed by Pennsylvania law, authorize the Corporation’s board of directors, from time to time by resolution and without further shareholder action, to provide for the issuance of shares of preferred stock, in one or more series, and to fix the designation, powers, preferences and other rights of the shares and to fix the qualifications, limitations and restrictions 26 Table of Contents thereof. As a result of its broad discretion with respect to the creation and issuance of preferred stock without shareholder approval, the board of directors could adversely affect the voting power and other rights of the holders of common stock and, by issuing shares of preferred stock with certain voting, conversion and/or redemption rights, could discourage any attempt to obtain control of CNB. The Corporation’s bylaws, as amended and restated, provide for the division of the Corporation’s board of directors into three classes of directors, with each serving staggered terms. In addition, any amendment to the Corporation’s bylaws must be approved by the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes cast by all shareholders entitled to vote thereon and, if any shareholders are entitled to vote thereon as a class, upon receiving the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes cast by the shareholders entitled to vote as a class. Any of the foregoing provisions may have the effect of deterring takeovers or delaying changes in control or management of the Corporation. The price of the Corporation’s common stock may fluctuate significantly, and this may make it difficult for you to resell shares of common stock owned by you at times or at prices you find attractive. The price of the Corporation’s common stock on the NASDAQ constantly changes. The Corporation expects that the market price of its common stock will continue to fluctuate, and the Corporation cannot give you any assurances regarding any trends in the market prices for its common stock. The Corporation’s stock price may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond its control. These factors include the Corporation’s: • past and future dividend practice; • financial condition, performance, creditworthiness and prospects; • quarterly variations in the Corporation’s operating results or the quality of the Corporation’s assets; • operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; • changes in expectations as to the Corporation’s future financial performance; • announcements of innovations, new products, strategic developments, significant contracts, acquisitions and other material events by the Corporation or its competitors; • the operating and securities price performance of other companies that investors believe are comparable to the Corporation; • future sales of the Corporation’s equity or equity-related securities; • the credit, mortgage and housing markets, the markets for securities relating to mortgages or housing, and developments with respect to financial institutions generally; and • changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, stock, commodity or real estate valuations or volatility and other geopolitical, regulatory or judicial events. The Corporation’s ability to pay dividends is limited by law and regulations. The future declaration of dividends by the Corporation’s Board of Directors will depend on a number of factors, including capital requirements, regulatory limitations, the Corporation’s operating results and financial condition and general economic conditions. The Corporation’s ability to pay dividends depends primarily on the receipt of dividends from the Bank. Dividend payments from the Bank are 27 Table of Contents subject to legal and regulatory limitations, generally based on retained earnings, imposed by bank regulatory agencies. The ability of the Bank to pay dividends is also subject to financial condition, regulatory capital requirements, capital expenditures and other cash flow requirements. The Corporation cannot assure you that the Bank will be able to pay dividends to CNB in the future. The Corporation may decide to limit the payment of dividends even when the Corporation have the legal ability to pay them in order to retain earnings for use in the Corporation’s business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 