Item 1A. Risk Factors Investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below together with all of the other information included in this report before making an investment decision. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business We are not actively pursuing our business plan due to a lack of financial resources; rather, we are exploring strategic alternatives that will likely result in our common stock have no value. 6 We have severely curtailed our operations and are not currently pursuing our business plan because we do not have the financial resources to do so. Rather, we are exploring potential alternatives for winding up our operations or selling our assets or business to one or more third parties. If we liquidate and wind up our operations, via bankruptcy, or otherwise sell our assets or business to one or more third parties, it is highly unlikely the holders of our common stock will receive anything and your investment in us will have no value. We are in default under the terms of our Senior Notes and may have to liquidate. If we are liquidated or sell our assets or business, it is highly unlikely that the holders of our common stock we receive anything and your investment in us will be worth nothing. In September 2004, we entered into a Senior Note Purchase Agreement and Registration Rights Agreement with certain investors pursuant to which we issued our Senior Notes in the approximate principal amount of $10.7 million (the “Amended Purchase Agreement”). In April 2006, we amended the Amended Purchase Agreement to reduce the conversion price, increase the interest rate and extend the maturity date (the “2006 Amendment”). In April 2007, the holders of substantially all the outstanding principal amount of the Senior Notes agreed to extend the maturity date, upon certain conditions, to June 30, 2008 (the “2007 Amendment”) (see Note 4 to our accompanying consolidated financial statements for a description of the terms). We are in default under the terms of the 2007 Amendment, and we owe the holders of our Senior Notes approximately $9.4 million in principal and accrued interest. We currently do not have the resources to repay the Senior Notes, and we do not expect to be able to repay the Senior Notes. If the holders of our Senior Notes demand repayment, and we are unable to do so, the holders of our Senior Notes may be able to force our liquidation. If we are liquidated, voluntarily declare bankruptcy or enter into some other strategic transaction with a third party for the sale of our assets or business, it is highly unlikely the holders of our common stock will receive any distribution or consideration upon such liquidation, bankruptcy or other transaction. In this case, your investment in our common stock would have no value. We have a history of operating losses and limited product revenues and we may never become profitable. We are a product development company with no current revenue from product sales. We have had net operating losses since our inception and we expect such losses to continue until we receive revenues from product sales, if such revenues cover our costs. As of June 30, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of $500.8 million. For the years ended June 30, 2009 and 2008, we incurred net losses of $1.2 million and $1.8 million, respectively. Substantially all of our revenues to date have come from sources other than product sales, such as licensing fees, milestone payments, and payments to fund research and development activities under joint development and license agreements. 0;To obtain revenues from our products, we must succeed, either alone or with others, in developing, obtaining regulatory approval for, and manufacturing and marketing products with significant market potential. We may never succeed in these activities and may never generate revenues that are significant enough to achieve profitability. There have been delays in the clinical development of our product candidate Oxygent. Due to lack of funding, we announced in November 2007 that the Phase 2b clinical trial in France was suspended. Double-Crane is obligated to initiate clinical trials in the PRC, but we do not expect that these trials will be initiated until calendar year 2012 and they will be Phase 1 clinical trials. We expect that at least one Phase 2 and two Phase 3 clinical trials with positive results will be required before we are able to seek marketing approval from any regulatory authority with respect to Oxygent. If the results of our clinical trials with respect to Oxygent are not positive, we may never be able to seek marketing approval for Oxygent from any regulatory authority or to generate significant revenue from product sales. We do not have manufacturing capabilities for our products. We no longer have manufacturing capabilities for any of our products since our downsizing in 2002. We have completed the manufacturing of clinical material with a third party in order to provide the product for our development activities. We do not know if we will be able to enter into a long-term manufacturing agreement with a third party on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. As a result, we do not know whether a third party will be successful in manufacturing clinical material to our specifications. All facilities and manufacturing techniques used in the manufacture of products for clinical use or for sale in the U.S. must be operated in conformity with cGMP guidelines as established by the FDA. We do not know whether the FDA will determine that any such third-party facilities maintain compliance with cGMP. A delay in FDA approval of our manufacturing facilities or the manufacturing facilities of any third-party collaborator would delay the marketing of our products and negatively impact our revenue and profitability. We may not be able to obtain the additional funding we will need to complete development and to introduce products to the market. 7 We need substantial additional funding for our business. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • the timing and extent of our late-stage clinical trials for Oxygent; • continued scientific progress in our research and development programs; • the time and cost involved in obtaining regulatory approvals for our products; • patent costs; • completing technological and market developments; and • the cost of manufacturing scale-up. Accordingly, we cannot estimate the amount of additional funding that we will require, but we know that it will be substantial. We cannot be certain that additional funding will be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If funds are not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our research or development programs or our commercialization. Further, additional funding may significantly dilute our existing stockholders. We depend on collaborations with third parties to develop and commercialize our products and to provide the majority of our revenues. A key aspect of our strategy is to selectively enter into collaborations with third parties. We currently rely, and will continue to rely, on our collaborators for financial resources and for development, commercialization and regulatory expertise. Currently, we do not have a collaboration agreement with any third party to develop our product Oxygent in the U.S. We have entered into the LEO Exclusivity Agreement that would grant LEO an option to develop and commercialize Oxygent in Europe, an exclusive development, license and supply agreement for Oxygent in the PRC with Double-Crane, and an exclusive distribution agreement with Il Yang to market and sell Oxygent in South Korea. We do not know if any of these collaborations will be successful in developing or effectively commercializing our products or technologies because they: • do not have sufficient resources or decide not to devote the necessary resources due to internal constraints such as limited cash or human resources; • decide to pursue a competitive potential product developed outside of the collaboration; or • cannot obtain the necessary regulatory approvals. The continuation of our collaborations is dependent on our collaborators’ periodic renewal of the governing agreements. Therefore, we may not be able to renew these collaborations on acceptable terms, if at all. We also face competition in our search for new collaborators. If conflicts arise with our collaborators, they may act in their self-interests, which may be adverse to our interests. Conflicts may arise in our collaborations due to one or more of the following: • disputes with respect to payments that we believe are due under a collaboration agreement; • disagreements with respect to ownership of intellectual property rights; • unwillingness on the part of a collaborator to keep us informed regarding the progress of its development and commercialization activities, or to permit public disclosure of these activities; • delay of a collaborator’s development or commercialization efforts with respect to our drug candidates; or • termination or non-renewal of the collaboration. Conflicts arising with our collaborators could harm our reputation, result in a loss of revenues, reduce our cash position and cause a decline in our stock price. We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials and perform data collection and analysis, which may result in costs and delays that prevent us from successfully commercializing drug candidates. Although we design and manage our preclinical studies and clinical trials, we currently do not have the resources to conduct preclinical studies or clinical trials for our product candidates. We rely on contract research organizations, medical institutions, clinical investigators and contract laboratories to perform data collection and analysis and other aspects of our clinical trials. We also rely on third parties to assist with our preclinical studies, including studies regarding biological activity, safety, absorption, metabolism and excretion of drug candidates. Our preclinical development activities or clinical trials may be delayed, suspended or terminated if: • these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or regulatory obligations or meet expected deadlines; • these third parties need to be replaced; or 8 • the quality or accuracy of the data obtained by third parties is compromised due to their failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements or for other reasons. Failure to perform by these third parties may increase our development costs, delay our ability to obtain regulatory approval and prevent the commercialization of our drug candidates. Delays, suspensions and terminations of our clinical trials could result in increased costs to us and delay our ability to generate product revenues. Our clinical trials may be delayed, suspended or terminated due to a number of factors, including: • ongoing discussions with regulatory authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials or requests by them for supplemental information with respect to our clinical trial results; • failure to conduct clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements; • lower than anticipated enrollment rate of patients in clinical trials; • serious AEs or side effects experienced by participants; and • insufficient supply or deficient quality of drug supply or other materials necessary for the conduct of our clinical trials. Many of these factors described above may also ultimately lead to denial of regulatory approval of a current or potential drug candidate. If we experience delays in our clinical trials, the commercial prospects for our product candidates will be harmed and our ability to generate product revenues will be delayed. Even if we successfully complete clinical trials of our product candidates, they may fail for other reasons. Even if we successfully complete clinical trials of our product candidates, they may fail for other reasons, including the possibility that the product candidates will: • fail to receive the regulatory clearances required to market them; • be subject to proprietary rights held by others requiring the negotiation of a license agreement prior to marketing; • be difficult or expensive to manufacture on a commercial scale; or • fail to compete with products or other treatments commercialized by our competitors. If we are unable to effectively market and sell our products, we may never generate revenues that are significant enough to achieve profitability. Our product candidates may not gain acceptance among physicians, patients and the medical community, thereby limiting our potential to generate revenues. Even if our product candidates are approved for commercial sale by the FDA, European or other foreign regulatory authorities, the degree of market acceptance of any approved product candidate by physicians, healthcare professionals and third-party payors, and our profitability and growth will depend on a number of factors, including: • our ability to provide acceptable evidence of safety and efficacy; • relative convenience and ease of administration; • the prevalence and severity of any AEs; • availability of alternative treatments; • pricing and cost effectiveness, which may be subject to regulatory control; • effectiveness of our or our collaborators’ sales and marketing strategy; and • our ability to obtain sufficient third-party insurance coverage or reimbursement. If any product candidate that we discover and develop does not provide a treatment regimen that is as beneficial as the current standard of care or otherwise does not provide patient benefit, that product likely will not achieve market acceptance and we will not generate sufficient revenues to achieve or maintain profitability. We will need to increase the size of our organization and we may encounter difficulties managing our growth, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We will need to expand and effectively manage our operations and facilities in order to advance our product development programs, achieve milestones under our collaboration agreements, facilitate additional collaborations and pursue other development activities. It is possible that our human resources and infrastructure may be inadequate to support our future growth. To manage our growth, we will be required to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures, and to attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees. In addition, we may have to develop sales, marketing and distribution capabilities if we decide to market an y product that we may successfully develop without partnering with third parties. We may not successfully manage the expansion of our operations and, accordingly, may not achieve our research, development and commercialization goals. 9 We could incur significant delays in marketing our products if we are unable to obtain the necessary raw materials from our existing sources. We need sufficient supplies of raw materials to develop and market our products successfully. The raw materials in products that are approved by the FDA cannot be changed without equivalency testing of the new material by us and approval by the FDA. Some of the raw materials for our products are expected to be qualified from only one supplier. At times, one or more of these qualified materials may not be available or may be available only in limited quantities. If we are unable to obtain the necessary raw materials from our existing sources, we could incur significant delays in marketing and selling our products. The lack or inadequacy of third-party reimbursement for our products would make it more difficult to market any products we develop. Our ability to commercialize our products successfully depends in part on the extent to which the cost of the products and related treatment will be reimbursed by government authorities, private health insurers and other group purchasing organizations. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. The purchase of healthcare services and products could be significantly affected by: • the trend toward managed healthcare in the U.S.; • the growth of group purchasing organizations; and • legislative proposals to reform healthcare and government insurance programs. These factors could result in lower prices and reduced demand for our products. Healthcare providers are instituting cost-containment measures. Any cost-containment measures as well as any healthcare reform could reduce or eliminate any profit to us on sales of our products. We also cannot assure you that full or partial reimbursement in the U.S. or foreign countries will be available for any of our products. If reimbursements are not available or sufficient, we may not be able to sell our products. We cannot forecast what additional legislation or regulation relating to the healthcare industry or third-party coverage and reimbursement may be enacted in the future, o r what effect the legislation or regulation would have on our business. We expect that our results of operations will fluctuate, which may make it difficult to predict our future performance from period to period. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to do so in the future. Some of the factors that could cause our operating results to fluctuate from period to period include: • the status of development of Oxygent; • whether we generate revenues by achieving specified research and development or commercialization milestones under any agreements; • the incurrence of preclinical or clinical expenses that could fluctuate significantly from period to period; • the initiation, termination or reduction in the scope of our collaborations during these periods or any disputes regarding these collaborations; • the timing of our ability to satisfy applicable regulatory requirements; • the rate of expansion of our clinical development and other internal research and development efforts; • the effect of competing technologies and products and market developments; and • general and industry specific economic conditions. We believe that quarterly comparisons of our financial results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. Our internal control over financial reporting may not be effective, which could have a significant and adverse effect on our business. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, which we collectively refer to as Section 404, require us to evaluate our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on those internal controls as of the end of each year. Section 404 will also require our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in future periods. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important in our effort to prevent financial fraud.& #160; In the course of our Section 404 evaluations, we may identify conditions that may result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses and we may conclude that enhancements, modifications or changes to our internal controls are necessary or desirable. Implementing any such matters would divert the attention of our management, could involve significant costs, and may negatively impact our results of operations. 10 We note that there are inherent limitations on the effectiveness of internal controls, as they cannot prevent collusion, management override or failure of human judgment. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls or if management or our independent registered public accounting firm were to discover material weaknesses in our internal controls, we may be unable to produce reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, and it could harm our financial condition and results of operations, result in a loss of investor confidence and negatively impact our stock price. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property Our ability to compete may decline if we do not adequately protect our proprietary rights. We believe that our success will depend largely on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for our own inventions, to license the use of patents owned by third parties when necessary, to protect trade secrets and to conduct our business without infringing the proprietary rights of others. We have obtained patents covering intermediate- and high-concentration PFC emulsions, stabilized PFC-emulsion formulations, as well as other patents. In addition, we have filed, and when appropriate will file, other patent applications with respect to our products and processes in the U.S. and in foreign countries. We do not know, however, whether: • any of our current or future patent applications will result in the issuance of patents; • any of our issued patents will provide significant proprietary protection or commercial advantage; or • any of our issued patents will not be circumvented by others. The patent positions of pharmaceutical medical products and biotechnology firms can be uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. It is possible that a third party may successfully challenge any of our patents or any of the patents licensed to us. If that were to happen, we would lose the right to prevent others from using the technology. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of our trade secrets and other proprietary information and may not adequately protect our intellectual property, which could limit our ability to compete. Because we operate in a highly technical field, we rely in part on trade secret protection in order to protect our proprietary technology and processes; however, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We enter into confidentiality and intellectual property assignment agreements with our corporate partners, employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers and other advisors. These agreements generally require that the other party keep confidential and not disclose to third parties all confidential information developed by the party or made known to the party by us during the course of the party’s relationship with us. These agreements also generally pr ovide that inventions conceived by the party in the course of rendering services to us will be our exclusive property. However, these agreements may not be honored and may not effectively assign intellectual property rights to us. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is difficult, expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the U.S. may be less willing to protect trade secrets. The failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive position. A dispute concerning the infringement or misappropriation of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of others could be time consuming and costly, and an unfavorable outcome could harm our business. There is significant litigation in our industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. If our product development activities are found to infringe any such intellectual property rights of others, we may have to pay significant damages. We may need to resort to litigation to enforce a patent issued to us, protect our trade secrets, or determine the scope and validity of third-party proprietary rights. From time to time, we may hire scientific personnel formerly employed by other companies involved in one or more areas similar to the activities conducted by us. Either we or these individuals may be subject to allegations of trade secret misappropriation or other similar claims as a result of their prior affiliations. If we become involved in litigation, it could consume a substantial portion of our managerial and financial resources, regardless of whether we win or lose. We may not be able to afford the costs of litigation. Any legal action against our company or our collaborators could lead to: 11 • payment of damages, potentially treble damages, if we are found to have willfully infringed a party’s patent rights; • injunctive or other equitable relief that may effectively block our ability to further develop, commercialize and sell products; or • we or our collaborators having to enter into license arrangements that may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. As a result, we could be prevented from commercializing current or future products. Risks Related to Our Industry We will be subject to stringent regulation in connection with the marketing of any products derived from our drug candidates, which could delay the development and commercialization of our products. The pharmaceutical industry is subject to stringent regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies in the U.S. and by comparable authorities in other countries. Neither we nor our collaborators can market a pharmaceutical product in the U.S. until it has completed rigorous preclinical testing and clinical trials and an extensive regulatory clearance process implemented by the FDA. Satisfaction of regulatory requirements typically takes many years, depends upon the type or complexity and novelty of the product, and requires substantial resources. Even if regulatory approval is obtained, it may impose significant restrictions on the indicated uses, conditions for use, labeling, adverti sing, promotion and/or marketing of such products, and requirements for post-approval studies, including additional research and development and clinical trials. These limitations may limit the size of the market for the product or result in the incurrence of additional costs. Any delay or failure in obtaining required approvals could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenues from the particular product candidate. Outside the U.S., the ability to market a product is contingent upon receiving approval from the appropriate regulatory authorities. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, marketing authorization, pricing and reimbursement vary widely from country to country. Only after the appropriate regulatory authority is satisfied that adequate evidence of safety, quality and efficacy has been presented will it grant a marketing authorization. Approval by the FDA does not automatically lead to the approval by regulatory authorities outside the U.S. and, similarly, approval by regulatory authorities outside the U.S. will not automatically lead to FDA approval. If our competitors develop and market products that are more effective than our product candidates, they may reduce or eliminate our commercial opportunity. We may be unable to compete successfully in developing and marketing our products. Several pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, public and private universities, and research organizations are actively engaged in the research and development of products that may compete with our products. Some of these companies, particularly the large worldwide pharmaceutical companies, have more resources than we do and may develop and introduce products and processes competitive with or superior to ours. We cannot assure that the cost of our product will be competitive with the cost of established therapies. We do not know whether our technology or the technology of a competitor will gain market acceptance. Our failure to compete could have a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot assure you that other technologies will not be developed that would render our product obsolete or more costly. Consumers may sue us for product liability, which could result in substantial liabilities that exceed our available resources and damage our reputation. Researching, developing and commercializing products entail significant product liability risks. Liability claims may arise from our and our collaborators’ use of products in clinical trials and the commercial sale of those products. Consumers may make these claims directly and our collaborators or others selling these products may seek contribution from us if they receive claims from consumers. We will need to increase and expand our product liability insurance that covers our clinical trials as we commence larger scale trials and if our drug candidates are approved for commercial sale. This insurance may be prohibitively expensive or may not fully cover our potential li abilities. Inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of products that we or our collaborators develop. Product liability claims could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our liability could exceed our total assets if we do not prevail in a lawsuit from any injury caused by our drug products. 12 Risks Related to an Investment in Our Securities There is a large number of shares of our common stock that may be sold in the market as a result of an offering, which may cause the price of our common stock to decline. As of May 20, 2010, 67,459,219 shares of our common stock were outstanding. On September 30, 2004, we registered, pursuant to a Form SB-2, 64,178,599 shares of our common stock that are either outstanding or issuable upon exercise of outstanding warrants or conversion of the Senior Notes held by certain shareholders. These shares, upon acquisition, unless held by “affiliates,” will be freely tradable without restriction or further registration under federal securities laws pursuant to Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public markets, or the perception that the sales may occur, could cause the market price of our stock to decline and could materially impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. The market price of our common stock could be volatile and your investment could suffer a decline in value. The market price for our common stock is likely to be volatile and could be susceptible to wide price fluctuations due to a number of internal and external factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • quarterly variations in operating results and overall financial condition; • economic and political developments affecting the economy as a whole; • results of our clinical trials; • our inability to manufacture products on a large scale; • short-selling programs; • the stock market’s perception of the biotechnology industry as a whole; • technological innovations by others; • proprietary rights disputes or litigation; • changes in earnings estimates by analysts; • additions or departures of key personnel; and • sales of substantial numbers of shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for our common stock. The report of our independent registered public accounting firm on our 2009 consolidated financial statements contains a going concern modification, and we will need additional financing to execute our business plan, fund our operations and to continue as a going concern, which additional financing may not be available on a timely basis, or at all. We have limited remaining funds to support our operations. We have prepared our consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K on a going-concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. We will not be able to execute our current business plan, fund our business operations or continue as a going concern long enough to achieve profitability unless we are able to secure additional funds. The Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on our June 30, 2009 consolidated financial statements includes an explanatory paragraph stating that the recurring losses incurred from operations and a working capital defic iency raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. However, in order to continue to develop Oxygent, we will need to secure additional funds. If adequate financing is not available, we will not be able to continue developing Oxygent. In addition, if one or more of the risks discussed in these risk factors occur or our expenses exceed our expectations, we may be required to raise further additional funds sooner than anticipated. We will be required to pursue sources of additional capital to fund our operations through various means, including equity or debt financing, funding from a licensing arrangement or any similar financing. Future financings through equity investments are likely to be dilutive to existing stockholders. Also, the terms of securities we may issue in future capital transactions may be more favorable for our new investors. Newly issued securities may include preferences, superior voting rights and the issuance of warrants or other derivative securities, which may have additional dilutive effects. In addition, if we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements , we may be required to relinquish potentially valuable rights to our product candidates or proprietary technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. Further, we may incur substantial costs in pursuing future capital and/or financing, including investment banking fees, legal fees, accounting fees, printing and distribution expenses and other costs. We may also be required to recognize non-cash expenses in connection with certain securities we may issue, such as convertible notes and warrants, which will adversely impact our financial results. 13 The significant downturn in the overall economy and the ongoing disruption in the capital markets has reduced investor confidence and negatively affected investments generally and specifically in the pharmaceutical industry. In addition, the fact that we are not profitable and will need significant additional funds to continue to develop Oxygent, could further impact the availability or cost of future financings. As a result, there can be no assurance that additional funds will be available when needed from any source or, if available, will be available on terms that are acceptable to us. If we are unable to raise funds to satisfy our capital needs on a timely basis, we may be required to cease operations. The application of the “penny stock” rules could adversely affect the market price of our common shares and increase your transaction costs to sell those shares. As long as the trading price of our common shares is below $5 per share, the open-market trading of our common shares will be subject to the penny stock rules. The penny stock rules impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors (generally those with assets in excess of $1 million or annual income exceeding $200,000 or $300,000 together with their spouses). For transactions covered by these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchase of securities and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction before the purchase. ;Additionally, for any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the broker-dealer must deliver, before the transaction, a disclosure schedule prescribed by the SEC relating to the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must disclose the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities. Finally, monthly statements must be sent disclosing recent price information on the limited market in penny stocks. These additional burdens imposed on broker-dealers may restrict the ability or decrease the willingness of broker-dealers to sell our common stock, and may result in decreased liquidity for our common stock and increased transaction costs for sales and purchases of our common stock as compared to other securities. These and other factors may make it difficult for our stockholders to sell their shares in the open market if and when eligible to do so. In addition, stock prices for many biotechnology companies fluctuate widely for reasons that may be unrelated to operating results. These fluctuations, as well as general economic, market and political conditions such as interest rate increases, recessions or military or political conflicts, may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock, thereby causing you to lose some or all of your investment. We do not intend to pay cash dividends. We have never paid cash dividends on our stock and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. In addition, certain restrictive covenants in the Senior Notes restrict our ability to pay dividends. We were unable to obtain an audit on a timely basis. We were unable to obtain an audit of our annual financial statements for the year ended June 30, 2009 contained herein on a timely basis by an independent registered public accounting firm using professional auditing standards and procedures. Although such an audit is required by Form 10-K pursuant to Rule 10-01(d) of Regulation S-X, because the Company did not have the funds to pay an independent registered public accounting firm to audit the annual financial statements and, therefore, is filing this Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2009 as required by applicable SEC rules late. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 