Item 1A. Risk Factors As a competitor in the banking and financial services industries, the Corporation and its business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this annual report on Form 10-K and in the Corporation’s other filings with the SEC, before making any investment decision with respect to the Corporation’s securities. In particular, you should consider the discussion contained in Item 7 of this annual report, which contains Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The risks and uncertainties described below may not be the only ones the Corporation faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known by the Corporation or that the Corporation currently deems immaterial may also affect the Corporation’s business. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occur or develop, the Corporation’s business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects could change. Under those circumstances, the trading prices of the Corporation’s securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Competition. Strong competition may reduce our ability to generate loans and deposits in our market. The Corporation competes in a consolidating industry. Increasingly the Corporation’s competition are large regional companies which have the capital resources to substantially impact such things as loan and deposit pricing, delivery channels and products. This may allow those companies to offer what may be perceived in the market as better products and better convenience relative to smaller competitors like the Corporation, which could impact the Corporation’s ability to grow its assets and earnings. Interest Rate Risk. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect the Corporation’s earnings and financial condition. The Corporation derives the majority of its revenue from net interest income. Net interest income may be reduced if more rate sensitive assets than interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature during a time when rates are declining, or if more interest-bearing liabilities than rate sensitive assets reprice or mature during a time when rates are rising; however, the Corporation has historically experienced improved net interest income during periods of rising rates, so if rates fall, the Corporation’s revenue may be adversely impacted. Interest rate changes also impact customer preferences for products. Changing rates can lead to unpredicted cash flow from assets and liabilities, which can impact net interest income. 3 Integration Risk. We may not be able to achieve the expected integration and cost savings from our ongoing bank acquisition activities, including our anticipated acquisition of Morgan Bank. Difficulties may arise in the integration of the business and operations of the financial institutions that agree to merge with and into the Corporation and its subsidiaries and, as a result, we may not be able to achieve the cost savings and synergies that we expect will result from the merger activities. Achieving cost savings is dependent on consolidating certain operational and functional areas, eliminating duplicative positions and terminating certain agreements for outside services. Additional operational savings are dependent upon the integration of the banking businesses of the acquired financial institution with that of the Corporation, including the conversion of the acquired entity’s core operating systems, data systems and products to those of the Corporation and the standardization of business practices. Complications or difficulties in the conversion of the core operating systems, data systems and products of these other banks to those of the Corporation may result in the loss of clients, damage to our reputation within the financial services industry, operational problems, one-time costs currently not anticipated by us and/or reduced cost savings resulting from the merger activities. Acquisition Risk . We may have difficulty in the future to continue to grow through acquisitions. Any future acquisitions or mergers by the Corporation or its subsidiaries, including our anticipated acquisition of Morgan Bank, are subject to approval by the appropriate federal and state banking regulators. The banking regulators evaluate a number of criteria in making their approval decisions, such as: Safety and soundness guidelines; Compliance with all laws including the USA Patriot Act of 2001, the International Money Laundering Abatement and Anti-Terrorist Financing Act of 2001, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations promulgated under such Act or the Exchange Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, the Community Reinvestment Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act and all other applicable fair lending laws and other laws relating to discriminatory business practices; and Anti-competitive concerns with the proposed transaction. If the banking regulators or a commenter on our regulatory application raise concerns about any of these criteria at the time a regulatory application is filed, the banking regulators may deny, delay or condition their approval of a proposed transaction. We intend to continue to grow through acquisitions of banks and other financial institutions. After these acquisitions, we may experience adverse changes in results of operations of acquired entities, unforeseen liabilities, asset quality problems of acquired entities, loss of key personnel, loss of clients because of change of identity, difficulties in integrating data processing and operational procedures and deterioration in local economic conditions. These various acquisition risks can be heightened in larger transactions. Government Policies. The Corporation’s business may be adversely affected by changes in government policies. The Corporation competes in a highly regulated environment. Changes in regulation are continually being proposed which can substantially impact the Corporation’s products and cost of delivery. Regulatory burdens imposed by legislation such as The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, The USA Patriot Act of 2001, The International Money Laundering Abatement and Anti-Terrorism Financing Act of 2001, The Equal Credit Opportunity Act, The Fair Housing Act, The Community Reinvestment Act and the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act can materially impact the ability of the Corporation to grow should the Corporation fail to develop the systems to adequately comply with these regulations. Failure to comply with these regulations can lead to loss of customer confidence, substantial fines and regulatory constraints on the Corporation’s operations. These burdens can also materially impact the earnings of the Corporation as additional resources are expended to comply with these requirements. The government, through the open market activities of the Federal Reserve Board, can also adversely impact our business. The Federal Reserve Board can change the discount rate which impacts the composition of the Corporation’s balance sheet by influencing the rates that the Corporation earns on its assets and pays on its liabilities. 4 General Economic Conditions. The Corporation may be adversely impacted by weakness in the local economies we serve. The Corporation is geographically concentrated in Lorain County, Ohio, where commercial activity is not expanding at a rate that is being experienced in other parts of Ohio or nationally. This is the result of continued reliance on a weak manufacturing sector, especially steel and automobiles. This can lead to unexpected deterioration in loan quality, slower asset and deposit growth and increased operating losses. Credit Risk. The Corporation’s earnings and reputation may be adversely affected if credit risk is not properly managed. Originating and underwriting loans is critical to the success of the Corporation. This activity exposes the Corporation to credit risk, which is the risk of losing principal and interest income because the borrower cannot repay the loan in full. The Corporation depends on collateral in underwriting loans, and the value of this collateral is impacted by interest rates and economic conditions. Concentration of Credit Risk. The Corporation’s earnings may be adversely affected if management does not understand and properly manage loan concentrations. The Corporation’s commercial loan portfolio is concentrated in commercial real estate. This includes significant commercial and residential development customers. This means that the Corporation’s credit risk profile is dependent upon, not only the general economic conditions in the market, but also the health of the local housing market. These loans involve greater risk because they generally are not fully amortizing over the loan period, but have a balloon payment due at maturity. The borrower’s ability to make a balloon payment typically will depend on being able to refinance the loan or to sell the underlying collateral. This factor, combined with others, including our geographic concentration, can lead to unexpected credit deterioration and higher provisions for loan losses. Dependence on Technology and Systems. If the Corporation’s technology and systems are damaged, its ability to service customers, comply with regulation and grow asset and liabilities may be adversely impacted. The Corporation is dependent on the proper functioning of its hardware, software and communications. Security breaches, terrorist events, and natural disasters can all have a material impact on the Corporation’s ability to maintain accurate records which is critical to the Corporation’s operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comment Letters Not applicable. 5 