risk factors emerge from time to time. Other unknown or unpredictable factors also could have material adverse effects on our future results, performance or achievements. We cannot assure you that projected results or events will be achieved or will occur. 3 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. Business. OVERVIEW, BUSINESS STRATEGY AND RECENT EVENTS We are a biotechnology company focused on the discovery, development and commercialization of nucleic acid-based therapies to treat orphan diseases. Since 2010, we have strategically acquired/in-licensed and further developed nucleic acid chemistry and delivery-related technologies to form an integrated drug discovery platform. We distinguish ourselves from others in the nucleic acid therapeutics area through this unique platform that enables the development of a variety of therapeutics targeting coding and non-coding RNA via multiple mechanisms of action such as RNA interference (“RNAi”), messenger RNA translational inhibition, exon skipping, microRNA (“miRNA”) replacement, miRNA inhibition, and steric blocking in order to modulate gene expression either up or down depending on the specific mechanism of action. Our goal is to dramatically improve the lives of the patients and families affected by orphan diseases through either our own efforts or those of our collaborators and licensees. Our discovery platform allows us to pursue the most appropriate nucleic acid-based therapeutic approach which is necessary to effectively modulate targets for a specific disease indication, many of which are considered undruggable by traditional methodologies. Each approach, i.e. small interfering RNA (“siRNA”), miRNA or single-strand oligonucleotide, has its advantages and disadvantages, and we can utilize our broad capabilities to screen across multiple mechanisms of action to identify the most effective therapeutic. We believe this capability makes us unique amongst our peers. Currently, we employ our platform through our own efforts and those of our partners, to discover and develop multiple nucleic acid-based therapeutics including siRNA, miRNA mimics and single stranded oligonucleotide-based compounds. Our pipeline is orphan disease focused and includes a clinical program in Familial Adenomatous Polyposis (“FAP”) and preclinical programs in type 1 myotonic dystrophy (“DM1”) and Duchenne’s muscular dystrophy (“DMD”). Our partners – ProNAi Therapeutics, Inc. (“ProNAi”) and Mirna Therapeutics, Inc. (“Mirna”) – are focused on oncology and have clinical programs in recurrent or refractory non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma and unresectable primary liver cancer or solid cancers with liver involvement, respectively. We hope to continue to establish similar collaborative and strategic alliances with additional pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Since December 2011, we have entered into the following agreements regarding our technology: ·Mirna Therapeutics – In December 2011, we entered into an exclusive license agreement with Mirna Therapeutics, Inc. (“Mirna”), a privately-held biotechnology company pioneering miRNA replacement therapy for cancer, regarding the development and commercialization of miRNA-based therapeutics utilizing Mirna’s proprietary miRNAs and our novel SMARTICLES®-based liposomal delivery technology (“SMARTICLES”). In December 2013, we amended this agreement such that Mirna paid certain pre-payments to us and now has additional rights to its lead program, MRX34, currently in Phase 1 clinical development. In addition, Mirna optioned exclusivity on several additional miRNA targets. ·ProNAi Therapeutics – In March 2012, we entered into an exclusive license agreement with ProNAi Therapeutics, Inc. (“ProNAi”), a privately-held biotechnology company pioneering DNA interference (“DNAi”) therapies for cancer, regarding the development and commercialization of DNAi-based therapeutics utilizing SMARTICLES. ·Monsanto Company – In May 2012, we entered into a worldwide exclusive license agreement with Monsanto Company (“Monsanto”), a global leader in agriculture and crop sciences, covering the agricultural applications for our delivery and chemistry technologies. ·Avecia Nitto Denko – In May 2012, we entered into a strategic alliance with Girindus Group, now Avecia Nitto Denko (“Avecia”), a leader in process development, analytical method development and current good manufacturing practices (“cGMP”) manufacture of oligonucleotide therapeutics, regarding the development, supply and commercialization of certain oligonucleotide constructs using our conformationally restricted nucleotide (“CRN”) technology. ·Novartis – In August 2012, we entered into a worldwide, non-exclusive license agreement with Novartis Institutes for Biomedical Research, Inc. (“Novartis”), a global leader in the development of human therapeutics, regarding the development of oligonucleotide therapeutics utilizing our CRN technology. ·Protiva Biotherapeutics – In November 2012, we entered into a worldwide, non-exclusive license agreement with Protiva Biotherapeutics Inc. (“Tekmira”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Tekmira Pharmaceuticals Corporation, a leading oligonucleotide-based drug discovery and development company, regarding the development of oligonucleotide therapeutics using our Unlocked Nucleobase Analog (“UNA”) technology. 4 Table of Contents ·Arcturus Therapeutics – In August 2013, we entered into a Patent Assignment and License Agreement with Arcturus Therapeutics, Inc. (“Arcturus”) in which we sold the UNA technology to Arcturus while retaining a worldwide, royalty free non-exclusive license to the UNA technology. ·Rosetta Genomics – In April 2014, we entered into a strategic alliance with Rosetta Genomics, Ltd. (“Rosetta”) to identify and develop miRNA-based products designed to diagnose and treat various neuromuscular diseases and dystrophies. Under the terms of the alliance, Rosetta will apply its industry leading miRNA discovery expertise for the identification of miRNAs involved in the various dystrophy diseases. If the miRNA is determined to be correlative to the disease, Rosetta may further develop the miRNA into a diagnostic for patient identification and stratification. If the miRNA is determined to be involved in the disease pathology and represents a potential therapeutic target, Marina may develop the resulting miRNA-based therapeutic for clinical development. The alliance is exclusive as it relates to neuromuscular diseases and dystrophies, with both companies free to develop and collaborate outside this field both during and after the terms of the alliance. Our business strategy is two-fold: First, we plan to discover and develop our own pipeline of nucleic acid-based compounds in order to commercialize drug therapies to treat orphan diseases. Orphan diseases are broadly defined as those rare disorders that typically affect no more than one person out of every 1,500 people. The United States Orphan Drug Act of 1983 was created to promote the development of new drug therapies for the treatment of diseases that affect fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States. Specifically, an orphan disease is a disease for which a regulatory agency, i.e. the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) or European Medicines Agency (“EMA”), can grant Orphan Drug Designation (“ODD”) to a compound being developed to treat that particular disease. In other words, if the FDA will grant ODD for a compound being developed to treat a disease, then that disease is an orphan disease. The purpose of such designations is to incentivize pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to develop drugs to treat smaller patient populations. In the U.S., ODD entitles a company to seven years of marketing exclusivity for its drug upon regulatory approval. In addition, ODD permits a company to apply for: (1) grant funding from the U.S. government to defray costs of clinical trial expenses, (2) tax credits for clinical research expenses and (3) exemption from the FDA's prescription drug application fee. Over the past several years, there has been a surge in rare disease activity due in part to the efforts of advocacy groups, the media, legislation and large pharmaceutical interest. Yet, orphan diseases represent a significant unmet medical need with fewer than 500 drug approvals for over 7,500 rare diseases; clearly demonstrating the necessity for innovation in the development of therapeutics to treat orphan diseases. Our lead effort is the clinical development of CEQ508 to treat FAP, a rare disease for which CEQ508 received FDA ODD in 2010. Currently, there is no approved therapeutic for the treatment of FAP. In April 2012, we announced the completion of dosing for Cohort 2 in the Dose Escalation Phase of the START-FAP (Safety and Tolerability of An RNAi Therapeutic in Familial Adenomatous Polyposis) Phase 1b/2a clinical trial. We did not proceed with the dosing of Cohort 3 patients as a result of our financial situation but expect to restart the trial and dose Cohort 3 at such time that we have reestablished clinical operations, ensured the stability of the clinical material and complied with all regulatory requirements. In addition, we expect to advance pre-clinical programs in DM1 and DMD through to human proof-of-concept. Second, we will seek to establish collaborations and strategic partnerships with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to generate revenue through up-front, milestone and royalty payments related to our technology and/or the products that are developed using such technology. In order to protect our innovations, which encompass a broad platform of both nucleic acid-based therapeutic chemistry and delivery technologies, as well as the drug products that may emerge from that platform, we have aggressively built upon our extensive and enabling intellectual property (“IP”) estate worldwide, and plan to continue to do so. As of July 14, 2014, we owned or controlled 104 issued or allowed patents and 91 pending U.S. and Foreign patent applications, including provisional patent applications, to protect our proprietary nucleic acid-based drug discovery capabilities. We believe we have successfully created an unique and unparalleled industry-leading nucleic acid-based drug discovery platform, which is protected by a strong IP position and validated through: (1) licensing agreements with Mirna and ProNAi and their respective clinical experience with SMARTICLES; (2) a licensing agreement with Novartis for the CRN technology; (3) a licensing agreement with Tekmira for the UNA technology; (4) licensing agreements with three large international companies (i.e., Roche, Novartis and Monsanto) for certain chemistry and delivery technologies; and (5) our own FAP Phase 1b/2a clinical trial with the TransKingdom RNA™ interference (“tkRNAi”) platform. LIQUIDITY; ELIMINATION OF INDEBTEDNESS We have sustained recurring losses and negative cash flows from operations. At December 31, 2013, we had an accumulated deficit of $331.3 million, working capital deficit of $5.2 million and stockholders’ deficit of $7.1 million. We have been funded 5 Table of Contents through a combination of licensing payments and debt and equity offerings. At December 31, 2013, we had $0.91 million in cash, with $4.3 million at June 30, 2014. As a result of our financial condition, during the period between June 2012 and the date of this report, substantially all of our research and development (“R&D”) activities were placed on hold, we exited all of our leased facilities, and all of our employees (other than our CEO) either resigned or were terminated. We have experienced and continue to experience operating losses and negative cash flows from operations, as well as an ongoing requirement for substantial additional capital investments. In February 2014, certain debt holders exchanged secured promissory notes in the aggregate principal and interest amount of approximately $1.5 million for approximately 2.0 million shares of our common stock. Additionally, in March 2014, we sold 1,200 shares of our Series C Convertible Preferred Stock and 6.0 million warrants to purchase one share of common stock for $0.75 per share, resulting in proceeds of $6.0 million. We believe that our current cash resources, which include the proceeds of the March 2014 offering, will enable us to fund our intended operations through May 2015. CURRENT OPERATIONS With the advancement of a clinical pipeline focused on orphan diseases, we expect to build our operations with limited internal resources by capitalizing on external consultants and contract research organizations. To date, we have engaged consultants with the necessary clinical trial, finance, medical, regulatory, and technical expertise to restart our FAP clinical trial and advance our preclinical efforts. Internal research activities and laboratory space will be limited to supporting the FAP, DM1 and DMD clinical and pre-clinical efforts. Expansion of the research team will be based on requirements that are driven by the establishment of collaboration and strategic partnerships with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. NUCLEIC ACID-BASED THERAPEUTICS Overview Nucleic acid-based therapeutics typically target two types of RNA – coding RNA and non-coding RNA. The targeting of coding RNA is usually associated with inhibition, or the down-regulation, of a specific mRNA via RNAi or mRNA translational inhibition, i.e. a single therapeutic inhibiting the protein expression of a single gene. The targeting of non-coding RNA is usually associated with the modulation (up or down) of a regulatory RNA via miRNA replacement therapy or miRNA inhibition, i.e. a single therapeutic repressing/de-repressing the expression of multiple genes (and thus proteins). The Nobel Prize winning discovery of RNAi in 1998 led not only to its widespread use in the research of biological mechanisms and target validation but also to its application in down regulating the expression of disease-causing proteins. In this case, the RNAi-based therapeutic, typically a double-stranded siRNA, acts through a naturally occurring process within cells that has the effect of reducing levels of mRNA required for the production of proteins. RNAi enables the targeting of disease at a genetic level and thus is highly specific to particular disease-causing proteins. Like RNAi-based therapeutics, certain single stranded anti-sense oligonucleotides (“ASO”) can also interact with mRNA by inhibiting translation (commonly referred to as mRNA translational inhibition) and likewise are highly specific to a disease-causing protein. On the other hand, miRNAs are small non-coding RNAs that are important in both gene regulation and protein translation. miRNAs exert their biological effect up stream of the RNAi pathway and can ultimately influence the RNAi process. Similar to a siRNA or ASO, a miRNA mimic, which increases the level of a miRNA in the cell, can inhibit protein expression. However, unlike a siRNA or translational inhibitor that targets just one gene, a miRNA mimic can simultaneously repress the expression of multiple proteins associated with the genes controlled by that miRNA target. miRNA antagonists (or antagomirs), which bind to the natural miRNA in the cell and prevents the activity of that miRNA, can allow the simultaneous “de-represssion” of multiple proteins associated with the genes under control of a single miRNA target. The term de-repression is used to describe the biological process, i.e. the binding of a naturally occurring miRNA by an antagomir causes the miRNA to forego its normal activity in repressing/inhibiting protein expression. In other words, the antagomir removes the brakes a miRNA applies to protein expression resulting in increased protein expression. The overall result of an antagomir and miRNA inhibition is an increase in protein expression downstream of the target miRNA. This type of nucleic acid-based therapeutic sets itself apart not only from other nucleic acid-based therapeutics (i.e. siRNA, ASO mRNA translational inhibitors and miRNA mimics), but also from the majority of small molecules and monoclonal antibodies in that it is one of the few mechanisms of action that can cause an increase in protein expression. In summary, nucleic acid-based therapeutics target genes to either prevent the expression of disease causing proteins or to increase protein expression where the absence of the protein contributes to a disease state. Although nucleic acid-based therapeutics are being developed for a number of diseases in therapeutic areas including cardiovascular, inflammation, and oncology, perhaps the greatest single opportunity for such therapeutics is in orphan diseases. Nucleic acid-based therapeutics are being advanced in indications characterized by “undruggable” targets; that is targets which cannot be modulated by small molecule or monoclonal antibodies. Therapeutic targets to treat rare and orphan diseases are typically “undruggable” targets. Within the biotechnology and pharmaceutical sectors, nucleic acid-based therapeutics are being developed for over a dozen rare and orphan diseases including: Alport Syndrome, Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis, Cystic Fibrosis, Duchenne’s 6 Table of Contents Muscular Dystrophy, Friedreich’s Ataxia, Hemophilia, Hepatic Porphyrias, Hereditary Angioedema, Homozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia, Huntington’s Disease, Primary Hyperoxaluria (Type I), Myotonic Dystrophy (Type 1), Sickle Cell Disease, Spinal Muscular Atrophy and Transthyretin Familial Amyloid Polyneuropathy. Various nucleic acid-based compounds are in either preclinical or clinical development for the above diseases and include both single- and double-stranded constructs such as: siRNA, miRNA mimics, antagomirs, and ASO utilizing various mechanisms of action such as: RNAi, mRNA translational inhibition, exon skipping, miRNA replacement, miRNA inhibition, and steric blocking. We believe a company that has the capability to develop both single- and double-stranded constructs with sufficient breadth of delivery technologies to get those constructs to the proper cellular targets can capitalize on the specific strength of various nucleic acid mechanisms of action thus creating the greatest chance for clinical success. We believe this multi-faceted approach is particularly applicable for rare and orphan disease indications. Such a capability has the possibility to significantly reduce the risks of failure associated with: (1) off-the-shelf chemistry and/or delivery, (2) one-off proprietary chemistry and/or delivery technologies or (3) mechanism of action. In 2010, we executed on a strategy to consolidate key intellectual property and technologies necessary to create a broad nucleic acid drug discovery platform with the capability to develop both single- and double-stranded constructs and to deliver those constructs to the proper cellular targets. Besides a key chemistry – CRN – which provides us the freedom to develop single-stranded constructs, we acquired two additional delivery technologies providing us: (1) an ability to deliver oligonucleotides via oral administration to treat gastro-intestinal disorders and (2) a significant expansion of our lipid-based delivery capability. With these acquisitions and the further development and advancement of those technologies from 2010 to the present, we feel we have established the broadest nucleic acid drug discovery platform in the sector and validated that platform through the following partnerships and licensing transactions: (1) ProNAi licensing SMARTICLES for systemic administration of a DNAi oligonucleotide to treat recurrent and relapsed non-Hodgkin’s Lymphoma – currently in Phase 2 human testing; (2) Mirna licensing SMARTICLES for systemic administration of a miRNA mimic to treat unresectable primary liver cancer or solid cancers with liver involvement – currently in Phase 1 human testing; (3) Novartis licensing our CRN technology in connection with the development of both single and double-stranded oligonucleotide therapeutics; (4) Tekmira licensing our UNA technology in connection with the development of siRNAs utilizing RNAi for the down-regulation of gene expression; and (5) Monsanto licensing certain of our delivery and chemistry technologies for agricultural applications. Further, between the clinical programs of ProNAi and Mirna with SMARTICLES and our own clinical program using the tkRNAi technology, we believe we are the only company in the space whose delivery technologies are being used to deliver three different types of nucleic acid compounds via two modes of administration: (1) oral administration of a double-stranded shRNA; (2) systemic administration of a double-stranded miRNA mimic and (3) systemic administration of a single-stranded DNA decoy. We believe every other company’s technologies, in clinical development, are limited to a single mode of administration (only intravenous, intramuscular and sub-cutaneous) and a single nucleic acid payload. Together with our existing and potential future partners, we intend to continue to build our understanding of the unique chemistry and delivery technologies we have assembled in order to effectively develop novel nucleic acid-based therapeutics for the treatment of human disease while minimizing the risk of failure. We will focus our development efforts toward certain orphan disease indications and collaborate with both biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies in the development of other orphan and non-orphan diseases. Nucleic Acid-Based Drug Discovery Platform Through the advancement of our FAP clinical program and pre-clinical programs in DM1 and DMD, we plan to continue to make improvements in both areas crucial to the development of nucleic acid-based therapeutics: constructs and delivery technologies. Although each area is equally important to the development of an effective therapeutic, the scientific challenges of delivery are one of the most significant obstacles to the broad use of nucleic acid-based therapeutics in the treatment of human disease including orphan diseases. UsiRNA Constructs. Our UsiRNAs, which are siRNA with substitution of UNA bases in place of RNA bases in key regions of the double-stranded construct, have shown important advantages in terms of efficacy and safety, when compared to standard siRNA molecules and modifications. UsiRNAs are highly active in rodent-based disease models, non-disease rodent models, and non-human primates. UsiRNAs function via RNAi to cut the targeted mRNA into two pieces in such a manner that the target mRNA can no longer function and thereby decreasing the production of the protein associated with the gene target. In the case of bladder cancer, liver cancer and malignant ascites, the UsiRNAs decrease tumor growth in the respective rodent disease model. UsiRNAs have demonstrated a lower potential for cytokine induction and provide resistance to nuclease degradation, two effects that are often prominent with standard siRNAs. Most importantly, substitution with UNA at specific sites greatly increases the specificity for RNAi and improves their profile for therapeutic use. Substitution in the passenger strand can eliminate the ability of this strand to act in the RNAi pathway and, thereby, the potential for unwanted effects on other targets or competition with guide strand activity by loading into the intracellular RNAi machinery. Substitution of UNA within the guide strand can eliminate miRNA-like effects that occur with standard siRNA. This miRNA-like off-target activity cannot often be addressed by bioinformatics and can result in severe loss of activity if addressed with standard chemical modification of RNA. Overall these data indicate that not only do UsiRNAs maintain 7 Table of Contents potent RNAi activity, they may also have superior drug like properties, through a combination of greater target specificity, improved safety and lower total dosing, when compared to typical siRNA-based compounds resulting in more effective protein down-regulation. Conformationally Restricted Nucleotides (CRN). CRNs are novel nucleotide analogs in which the flexible ribose sugar is locked into a rigid conformation by a small chemical linker. By restricting the flexibility of the ribose ring, CRNs can impart a helix-type structure typically found in naturally occurring RNA. For single stranded oligonucleotide therapeutics, the impact of CRN substitution dramatically increases the therapeutics’ affinity for the target mRNA or miRNA while imparting significant resistance to nuclease degradation. Additionally, CRNs can significantly improve the thermal stability of double-stranded constructs, such as siRNAs. We reported in vivo dose-dependent efficacy with a CRN-substituted antagomir against miRNA-122 (“miR-122”). The efficacy in a rodent model was demonstrated by up to a 5-fold increase in AldoA, a well-known downstream gene regulated by miR-122. In addition, downstream targets GYSI and SLC7A1 were also elevated. The increase in these downstream gene targets was achieved by the sequestration of miR-122 by a high affinity CRN-substituted antagomir. In addition, the CRN-substituted antagomir, which was dosed for three consecutive days at up to 50 mg/kg/day, was extremely well tolerated in rodents as evidenced by normal serum chemistry parameters and no body weight changes. CRNs are critical to our ability to develop single-stranded oligonucleotides. Delivery. We have two liposomal-based delivery platforms. The first platform utilizes amino-based liposomal delivery technology and incorporates a novel and proprietary molecule we call DiLA2 (Di-Alkylated Amino Acid). Our scientists designed this molecule based on amino acid (e.g., peptide/protein-based) chemistry. A DiLA2-based liposome has several potential advantages over other liposomes, such as: (1) a structure that may enable safe and natural metabolism by the body; (2) the ability to adjust liposome size, shape, and circulation time, to influence bio-distribution; and (3) the ability to attach molecules that can influence other delivery-related attributes such as cell specific targeting and cellular uptake. Our formulations for delivery of UsiRNAs, using different members of the DiLA2 family, have demonstrated safe and effective delivery in rodents with metabolic targets (e.g., ApoB) and in cancer models using both local and systemic routes of administration. Safe and effective delivery with DiLA2-based formulations has also been achieved in non-human primates. The second platform, SMARTICLES, defines a novel class of liposomes that are fully charge-reversible particles allowing delivery of active substance (siRNA, single-stranded oligonucleotides, etc.) inside a cell either by local or systemic administration. SMARTICLES-based liposomes are designed to ensure stable passage through the bloodstream and the release of nucleic acid payloads within the target cell where they can exert their therapeutic effect by engaging either the RNAi pathway or directly with mRNA. To date, SMARTICLES-delivered nucleic acid drug candidates, which have been administered to approximately 50 patients, have demonstrated: (1) delivery to tumor in Phase 1 and 2 clinical trials; (2) statistically significant, dose-dependent, and specific knockdown of a gene target in a Phase 1 clinical trial; (3) single agent anti-tumor activity in patients with recurrent or refractory non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma (NHL) in a Phase 2 clinical trial; and (4) anti-tumor efficacy with both single- and double-stranded oligonucleotides in rodent models. ProNAi’s clinical compound, PNT2258, is a first-in-class, 24-base, single-stranded, chemically-unmodified DNA oligonucleotide drug targeting BCL2. PNT2258 exhibits single agent anti-tumor activity in patients with recurrent or refractory NHL. Eighty-two percent of patients had tumor shrinkage when receiving single-agent therapy with PNT2258. To date, overall response rate in patients with follicular lymphoma is 40 percent and in patients with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma overall response is 50 percent. PNT2258 is safe at a dose of 120 mg/m2 administered intravenously for 2 to 3 hours on days 1 through 5 of a 21-day schedule. No tumor lysis syndrome or major organ toxicities were observed. No occurrences of elevated liver enzymes, hyperkalemia, hyperphosphatemia, hypocalcemia, renal failure/dysfunction, or infections were noted nor were any Grade 4 toxicities. PNT2258 drug exposure levels (AUC) exceeded by at least four-fold that required for anti-tumor activity in xenograft studies of human tumors, consistent with the Phase 1 trial. Mirna’s clinical compound, MRX34, is a double-stranded miRNA “mimic” of the naturally occurring tumor suppressor miR-34, which inhibits cell cycle progression and induces cancer cell death. The Phase 1 MRX34 study, for the treatment of patients with unresectable primary liver cancer or solid cancers with liver involvement, is designed with an initial dose-escalation phase of approximately 30 patients, followed by an expansion phase of approximately 18 additional patients after the recommended Phase 2 dose has been identified. MRX34 is administered intravenously twice a week for three weeks with one week off, during 28-day cycles, until disease progression or intolerance. Interim safety data from the multicenter, open-label Phase 1 clinical trial of MRX34 showed that MRX34 has a manageable safety profile with only one incident of a dose-limiting toxicity observed to date. We believe the combined clinical delivery experiences of ProNAi and Mirna are impressive and that SMARTICLES is a potential product differentiator in the further development of our orphan disease clinical pipeline. In addition to our liposomal-based delivery platforms, we have used peptides for both the formation of stable siRNA nanoparticles as well as targeting moieties for siRNA molecules. This research has included: (1) the use of peptide technology to “condense” siRNAs into compact and potent nanoparticles; (2) screening of our proprietary Trp Cage phage display library for 8 Table of Contents targeting peptides; and (3) internal discovery and development of peptides and other compounds recognized as having cellular targeting or cellular uptake properties. The goal in the use of such technologies is to minimize the amount of final drug required to produce therapeutic response by increasing the potency of the drug product as well as by directing more of the final drug product to the intended site of action. TransKingdom RNA™ interference (tkRNAi) platform. tkRNAi is a broad-reaching platform that can be used to develop highly specific drug products for a diverse set of diseases. The tkRNAi platform involves the modification of bacteria to deliver short-hairpin RNA (“shRNA”) to cells of the gastrointestinal tract. A significant advantage of the tkRNAi platform is oral (by mouth) delivery making this platform extremely patient friendly while harnessing the full potential of the RNAi process. The tkRNAi platform has demonstrated in vivo mRNA down-regulation of both inflammatory and cancer targets, thus providing a unique opportunity to develop RNAi-based therapeutics against inflammation and oncology diseases such as Crohn’s Disease, ulcerative colitis and colon cancer. For our own clinical pipeline, we have used the tkRNAi platform to discover and develop CEQ508 for the treatment of FAP. Clinical Program. CEQ508 is being developed for the treatment of Familial Adenomatous Polyposis, a hereditary condition that occurs in approximately 1:10,000 persons worldwide. FAP is caused by mutations in the adenomatous polyposis coli gene. As a result of these mutations, epithelial cells lining the intestinal tract have increased levels of the protein ß-catenin, which in turn results in uncontrolled cell growth. Proliferation (uncontrolled cell growth) of the epithelial cells results in the formation of hundreds to thousands of non-cancerous growths (polyps) throughout the large intestine. By age 35, 95% of individuals with FAP have developed polyps and most will experience adverse effects including increased risk of bleeding and the potential for anemia. In more severe cases, obstruction of the intestines, abdominal pain, and severe bouts of diarrhea or constipation can occur. FAP patients are also at an increased risk of various cancers but specifically colon cancer. If measures are not taken to prevent the formation of polyps or to remove the polyps, nearly 100% of FAP patients will develop colon cancer. Currently, there is no approved therapeutic for the treatment of FAP. For many patients, complete colectomy (surgical removal of the entire large intestine), usually performed in the late teenage years or early twenties, is the only viable option for treatment. However, surgical intervention is not curative as the risk of polyps forming in the remaining portions of the intestinal tract and in the small intestine continues after colectomy. Most people with the genetic condition are in registries maintained in clinics and state institutions. Based on limited prevalence data, we believe the U.S. and European FAP patient population are each approximately 30,000 patients, with another 40,000 patients in Asia. CEQ508 is the first drug candidate in a novel class of therapeutic agents utilizing the tkRNAi platform and the first orally administered RNAi-based therapeutic in clinical development. CEQ508 comprises attenuated bacteria that are engineered to enter into dysplastic tissue and release a payload of shRNA, a mediator in the RNAi pathway. The shRNA targets the mRNA of ß-catenin, which is known to be dysregulated in classical FAP. CEQ508 is being developed as an orally administered treatment to reduce the levels of ß-catenin protein in the epithelial cells of the small and large intestine. Upon enrollment in the Phase 1b/2a clinical trial, patients are placed in one of four dose-escalating cohorts. Following completion of the dose escalation phase, the trial plan calls for a stable-dose phase in which patients will receive the highest safe dose. Under the trial protocol, CEQ508 is administered daily in an oral suspension for 28 consecutive days. In April 2012, we announced the completion of dosing for Cohort 2 in the Dose Escalation Phase of the START-FAP (Safety and Tolerability of An RNAi Therapeutic in Familial Adenomatous Polyposis) clinical trial of CEQ508. We did not proceed with the dosing of Cohort 3 patients due to our financial situation in 2012 but expect to restart the trial and dose Cohort 3 at such time that we have reestablished clinical operations, ensured the stability of the clinical material and complied with all regulatory requirements. The FDA granted orphan drug designation to CEQ508 for the treatment of FAP. Orphan drug designation entitles us to seven years of marketing exclusivity for CEQ508 for the treatment of FAP upon regulatory approval, as well as the opportunity to apply for: (1) grant funding from the U.S. government to defray costs of clinical trial expenses, (2) tax credits for clinical research expenses and (3) exemption from the FDA's prescription drug application fee. Pre-Clinical Programs. With the breadth of our nucleic acid-based drug discovery platform, we believe we are in a unique position to develop both single- and double-stranded clinical candidates to treat various neuromuscular disorders and dystrophies within the orphan drug space. Neuromuscular disorders affect the nerves that control voluntary muscles, such as those that control the arms and legs. Nerve cells, also called neurons, send messages that control these muscles. When the neurons become unhealthy or die, communication between the nervous system and muscles breaks down. As a result, muscles weaken and waste away. Likewise, dystrophies are progressive degenerative disorders affecting skeletal muscles. In both cases, the diseases can often affect other organ systems such as the heart and central nervous system. Many neuromuscular diseases and almost all dystrophies are genetic, which means there is a mutation in the genes which in many cases is passed from parent to child. Although a cure for these disorders may present itself in the future, the goal of our drug development effort will be to improve symptoms, increase mobility and increase the individual’s lifespan. We have chosen to pursue clinical efforts in two orphan disease indications – DM1 and DMD. Myotonic dystrophy is one of a classification of inherited disorders named muscular dystrophies. It is the most common form of muscular dystrophy that begins in adulthood and is characterized by progressive muscle wasting and weakness. Individuals with this 9 Table of Contents disorder often have prolonged muscle contractions (myotonia) and are not able to relax certain muscles after use. There are two major types of myotonic dystrophy: type 1 and type 2. Signs and symptoms overlap, although type 2 tends to be milder than type 1. Myotonic dystrophy affects at least 1:8,000 people worldwide. The prevalence of the two types of myotonic dystrophy varies among different geographic and ethnic populations. In most populations, type 1 appears to be more common than type 2. Duchenne muscular dystrophy is a rare muscle disorder affecting approximately 1:3,500 male births worldwide. Like myotonic dystrophy, DMD is also characterized by muscle wasting and weakness starting first in the pelvic area followed by shoulder muscles. DMD is typically diagnosed between three and six years of age. As the disease progresses, muscle weakness and wasting spreads to the trunk and forearms and gradually progresses to involve additional muscles of the body. The disease is progressive and most affected individuals require a wheelchair by the teenage years. Serious life-threatening complications may ultimately develop including disease of the heart muscle and respiratory difficulties. We believe our delivery technologies, combined with our CRN chemistry, will permit us to develop best-in-class miRNA antagonists and mimics as well as ASO targeting translational inhibition and exon-skipping ASOs targeting cytosine-uracil-guanine (CUG) repeats in affected mRNA for the treatment of DM1 and DMD. Further, our ability to work with all of these modalities is potentially critically important to the treatment of these multi-system diseases, as the disease is not limited to skeletal muscle but also affects the heart and central nervous system. While current technologies are limited by either a single-stranded or a double-stranded approach, we can pursue whichever nucleic acid modality most effectively treats each diseases. Partnering and Licensing Agreements Rosetta – On April 1, 2014, we entered into a strategic alliance with Rosetta to identify and develop miRNA-based products designed to diagnose and treat various neuromuscular diseases and dystrophies. Under the terms of the alliance, Rosetta will apply its industry leading miRNA discovery expertise for the identification of miRNAs involved in the various dystrophy diseases. If the miRNA is determined to be correlative to the disease, Rosetta may further develop the miRNA into a diagnostic for patient identification and stratification. If the miRNA is determined to be involved in the disease pathology and represents a potential therapeutic target, Marina may develop the resulting miRNA-based therapeutic for clinical development. The alliance is exclusive as it relates to neuromuscular diseases and dystrophies, with both Companies free to develop and collaborate outside this field both during and after the terms of the alliance. Arcturus – On August 9, 2013, we and Arcturus entered into a Patent Assignment and License Agreement, pursuant to which we assigned our UNA technology for the development of RNAi therapeutics to Arcturus. In consideration for entering into the agreement, we received a one-time payment in full of $0.8 million for the Patent Assignment and License Agreement and transferred the Protiva Biotherapeutics, Inc. (i.e. Tekmira) and Ribotask AsP license agreements to Arcturus. In addition, under the terms of the agreement, we retained a worldwide, fully-paid, royalty free, non-exclusive license to the UNA technology equal to the non-exclusive rights licensed by Tekmira and Roche (rights owned now by Arrowhead Research, Inc.). Tekmira – On November 28, 2012, we entered into a License Agreement with Tekmira, whereby we will provide Tekmira a worldwide, non-exclusive license to our UNA technology for the development of RNAi therapeutics. Tekmira will have full responsibility for the development and commercialization of any products arising under the License Agreement. In consideration for entering into the agreement, we received an upfront payment in the amount of $0.3 million, and are eligible to receive milestone payments upon the satisfaction of certain clinical and regulatory milestone events and royalty payments in the low single digit percentages on products developed by Tekmira that use UNA technology. Tekmira may terminate the agreement for convenience in its entirety, or in respect of any particular country or countries, by giving 90 days prior written notice to us, provided that no such termination shall be effective sooner than August 28, 2013. Either party may terminate the agreement immediately upon the occurrence of certain bankruptcy events involving the other party, or, following the expiration of a 120 day cure period (60 days in the event of a default of a payment obligation by Tekmira), upon the occurrence of a material breach of the agreement by the other party. With the purchase of the UNA asset by Arcturus in August 2013, the Tekmira License Agreement transferred to Arcturus. Novartis – On August 2, 2012, we and Novartis entered into a worldwide, non-exclusive License Agreement for our CRN technology for the development of both single and double-stranded oligonucleotide therapeutics. We received a $1.0 million one-time payment for the non-exclusive license. In addition, in March 2009, we entered into an agreement with Novartis pursuant to which we granted to Novartis a worldwide, non-exclusive, irrevocable, perpetual, royalty-free, fully paid-up license, with the right to grant sublicenses, to our DiLA2 -based siRNA delivery platform in consideration of a one-time, non-refundable fee of $7.25 million, which was recognized as license fee revenue in 2009. Novartis may terminate this agreement immediately upon written notice to us. Avecia – On May 18, 2012, we and Avecia entered into a strategic alliance pursuant to which Avecia will have exclusive rights to develop, supply and commercialize certain oligonucleotide constructs using our CRN chemistry and in return, we will receive 10 Table of Contents royalties in the single digit percentages from the sale of CRN-based oligonucleotide reagents, as well as a robust supply of cGMP material for us and our partners' pre-clinical, clinical and commercialization needs. Monsanto – On May 3, 2012, we and Monsanto entered into a worldwide exclusive Intellectual Property License Agreement for our delivery and chemistry technologies. On May 3, 2012, we and Monsanto also entered into a Security Agreement pursuant to which we granted to Monsanto a security interest in that portion of our intellectual property that is the subject of the License Agreement in order to secure the performance of our obligations under the License Agreement. Under the terms of the license agreement, we received $1.5 million in initiation fees, and may receive royalties on product sales in the low single digit percentages. Monsanto may terminate the License Agreement at any time in whole or as to any rights granted thereunder by giving prior written notice thereof to us, with termination becoming effective three months from the date of the notice. ProNAi — On March 13, 2012, we entered into an Exclusive License Agreement with ProNAi regarding the development and commercialization of ProNAi’s proprietary DNAi-based therapeutics utilizing SMARTICLES. The License Agreement provides that ProNAi will have full responsibility for the development and commercialization of any products arising under the License Agreement. Under terms of the License Agreement, we could receive up to $14 million for each gene target in upfront, clinical and commercialization milestone payments, as well as royalties in the single digit percentages on sales, with ProNAi having the option to select any number of gene targets. Either party may terminate the License Agreement upon the occurrence of a default by the other party (subject to standard cure periods), or upon certain events involving the bankruptcy or insolvency of the other party. ProNAi may also terminate the License Agreement without cause upon ninety (90) days' prior written notice to us. Mirna — On December 22, 2011, we entered into a License Agreement with Mirna regarding the development and commercialization of miRNA-based therapeutics utilizing Mirna’s proprietary miRNAs and SMARTICLES. The License Agreement provides that Mirna will have full responsibility for the development and commercialization of any products arising under the License Agreement and that we will support pre-clinical and process development efforts. Under terms of the License Agreement, we could receive up to $63 million in upfront, clinical and commercialization milestone payments, as well as royalties in the low single digit percentages on sales, based on the successful outcome of the collaboration. Either party may terminate the License Agreement upon the occurrence of a default by the other party. Mirna may also terminate the License Agreement without cause upon 60 days prior written notice to us. We and Mirna entered into an amendment of this agreement in December 2013, pursuant to which Mirna made certain pre-payments to us and now has additional rights to its lead program, MRX34. Further under the amendment, Mirna optioned exclusivity on several additional miRNA targets. Debiopharm — On February 3, 2011, we entered into a Research and License Agreement with Debiopharm S.A. (“Debiopharm”) pursuant to which we granted to Debiopharm an exclusive license to develop and commercialize our pre-clinical program in bladder cancer, for all uses in humans and animals for the prevention and treatment of superficial (non-muscle invasive) bladder cancer, in consideration of the payment by Debiopharm to us of up to $24 million in milestones, plus royalties in the low double digit percentages from product sales. On November 2, 2012, Debiopharm provided notice that the agreement would be terminated effective December 5, 2012 due to its operational reasons. The bladder cancer program has been returned to us without obligations and we will continue to seek an appropriate partner to continue the preclinical and clinical development of this program. Novosom — On July 27, 2010, we entered into an agreement pursuant to which we acquired the intellectual property of Novosom AG (“Novosom”) of Halle, Germany for SMARTICLES, which significantly broadens the number of approaches we may take for systemic and local delivery of our proprietary UNA and CRN-based oligonucleotide therapeutics. We issued an aggregate of .014 million shares of our common stock to Novosom as consideration for the acquired assets. The shares had a value equal to approximately $3.8 million, which was recorded as research and development expense. As additional consideration for the acquired assets, we will pay to Novosom an amount equal to 30% of the value of each upfront (or combined) payment actually received by us in respect of the license of liposomal-based delivery technology or related product or disposition of the liposomal-based delivery technology by us, up to $3.3 million, which amount will be paid in shares of our common stock, or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock, at our discretion. To date we have issued an aggregate of 1.4 million shares of common stock to Novosom representing additional consideration of $0.74 million as a result of the license agreements and amendments to such license agreements that we entered into with our partners. Valeant Pharmaceuticals — On March 23, 2010, we acquired intellectual property related to our CRN chemistry from Valeant Pharmaceuticals North America (“Valeant”) in consideration of payment of a non-refundable licensing fee of $0.5 million which was included in research and development expense in 2010. Subject to meeting certain milestones triggering the obligation to make any such payments, we may be obligated to make a product development milestone payment of $5.0 million and $2.0 million within 180 days of FDA approval of a New Drug Application for our first and second CRN related product, respectively. To date, we had not made any such milestone payments but have milestone obligations of $0.13 million based on CRN licenses to date. Valeant is entitled to receive earn-outs based upon a percentage in the low single digits of future commercial sales and earn-outs based upon a percentage in the low double digits of future revenue from sublicensing. Under the agreement we are required to use commercially reasonable 11 Table of Contents efforts to develop and commercialize at least one covered product. If we have not made earn-out payments of at least $5.0 million prior to March 2016, we are required to pay Valeant an annual amount equal to $50,000 per assigned patent which shall be creditable against other payment obligations. The term of our financial obligations under the agreement shall end, on a country-by-country basis, when there no longer exists any valid claim in such country. We may terminate the agreement upon 30 day notice, or upon 10 day notice in the event of an adverse results from clinical studies. Upon termination, we are obligated to make all payments accrued as of the effective date of such termination but shall have no future payment obligations. Roche — On February 12, 2009, we entered into an agreement with F. Hoffmann-La Roche Inc. and F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd. (collectively, “Roche”), pursuant to which we granted to Roche a worldwide, irrevocable, non-exclusive license to a portion of our technology platform, for the development of RNAi-based therapeutics, in consideration of the payment of a non-refundable licensing fee of $5.0 million. On September 30, 2011, we agreed to the assignment and delegation by Roche of its non-exclusive license rights in the Licensed Technology upon Roche’s successful divestment of its RNAi assets. On October 21, 2011, Roche successfully divested its RNAi assets, including the Licensed Technology, and made a non-refundable payment of $1.0 million to us in consideration for our agreement to the assignment and delegation of Roche’s non-exclusive license rights in the licensed technology. This payment was recognized as revenue in 2011. University of Helsinki — On June 27, 2008, we entered into a collaboration agreement with Dr. Pirjo Laakkonen and the Biomedicum Helsinki. The goal of the work involves our patented phage display library, the Trp Cage library, for the identification of peptides to target particular tissues or organs for a given disease. In December 2009, we received a patent allowance in the U.S. covering a targeting peptide for preferential delivery to lung tissues that was identified by us using the Trp Cage Library. We believe the Trp Cage library will be a source of additional peptides for evaluation in our delivery programs, and we will have a strong IP position for these peptides and their use. This agreement terminated by its terms in June 2012. Under this agreement, we may be obligated to make product development milestone payments of up to €275,000 in the aggregate for each product developed under this research agreement if certain milestones are met. To date, we have not made, and are not under any current obligation to make, any such milestone payments, as the conditions that would trigger any such milestone payment obligations have not been satisfied. In addition, upon the first commercial sale of a product, we are required to pay an advance of 0.25€ million (based on currency conversion rates as of July 14, 2014 this equals approximately $0.34 million) against which future royalties will be credited. The percentage royalty payment required to be made by us to the University of Helsinki is a percentage of gross revenues derived from work performed under the Helsinki Agreement in the low single digits. Ribotask ApS. — On June 19, 2009, we announced the revision of the October 2008 agreement in which we had acquired the intellectual property related to the UNA from Ribotask ApS (“Ribotask”), a privately held Danish company. The original agreement provided us with exclusive rights for the development and commercialization of therapeutics incorporating UNAs. The amended agreement eliminated our obligation to pay all milestone and royalty payments and provided full financial and transactional control of our proprietary UNA technology. Under the October 2008 agreement we made payments to Ribotask totaling $0.5 million. We sublicensed the IP under this agreement to Roche on a nonexclusive basis in February 2009, at which time we paid an additional $0.25 million to Ribotask, which eliminated the obligation to pay Ribotask any future royalties or milestones with respect to the Roche sublicense. In connection with the June 2009 amendment, we issued 15,152 shares of our common stock valued at approximately $1.0 million to Ribotask and agreed to pay $1.0 million in four installments of $0.25 million each due at various intervals through July 2010. In June 2010, we expanded our rights under the previous agreement with Ribotask to include exclusive rights to the development and commercialization of UNA-based diagnostics. In connection with this amendment, we agreed to pay Ribotask $0.75 million in three equal payments of $0.25 million. In March 2011, the agreement was amended to change the payment terms for the diagnostic rights. The first payment of $0.25 million was made in November 2010, a payment of $0.05 million was made upon the execution of the amendment, and the remaining $0.4 million was paid in eight equal monthly installments beginning on May 1, 2011. In addition, we issued 11,377 shares of our common stock valued at approximately $0.08 million to Ribotask on March 3, 2011. In connection with our agreements, as amended, we granted Ribotask a royalty-bearing, world-wide exclusive license to use the assigned patents to develop and sell products intended solely for use as reagents or for testing. The royalty rates to be paid to us by Ribotask are a percentage in the low single digits. With the purchase of the UNA asset by Arcturus in August 2013, the Ribotask License Agreement transferred to Arcturus. PROPRIETARY RIGHTS AND INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY We rely primarily on patents and contractual obligations with employees and third parties to protect our proprietary rights. We have sought, and intend to continue to seek, appropriate patent protection for important and strategic components of our proprietary technologies by filing patent applications in the U.S. and certain foreign countries. There can be no assurance that any of our patents 12 Table of Contents will guarantee protection or market exclusivity for our products and product candidates. We also use license agreements both to access external technologies and to convey certain intellectual property rights to others. Our financial success will be dependent in part on our ability to obtain commercially valuable patent claims and to protect our intellectual property rights and to operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others. As of July 14, 2014, we owned or controlled 104 issued or allowed patents, as described in the following table, and owned or controlled 91 pending U.S. and Foreign patent applications, including provisional patent applications, to protect our proprietary nucleic acid-based drug discovery capabilities. Estimated Expiration No. of Issued/Allowed Patents Jurisdiction 2019 7 U.S. 2020 1 Germany 2 U.S. 2021 1 U.S. 2022 2 Australia 1 Belgium 1 Brazil 2 Canada 2 China 3 Germany 1 Ireland 1 Italy 2 Japan 3 Netherlands 2 Singapore 1 Spain 3 Switzerland 3 U.K. 6 U.S. 3 Austria 3 France 2023 1 Austria 1 France 1 Germany 1 Netherlands 1 Switzerland 1 U.K. 2 U.S. 2024 1 China 2025 1 Australia 2 Canada 2 France 2 Germany 1 Hong Kong 1 Ireland 1 Italy 1 Japan 1 Korea 1 Spain 1 Switzerland 2 U.K. 5 U.S. 2026 1 Australia 1 China 1 Hong Kong 1 Mexico 1 Japan 1 U.S. 2027 1 JP 5 U.S. 2028 2 U.S. 2 New Zealand 1 China 2029 1 France 1 Germany 1 Italy 13 Table of Contents 1 Spain 1 Switzerland 1 U.K. 2030 1 South Africa The patents listed in the table above will expire generally between 2019 and 2030, subject to any potential patent term extensions and/or supplemental protection certificates that would extend the terms of the patents in countries where such extensions may become available. COMPETITION There are a number of small, mid-sized and large biotechnology companies that compete with us. Our competition is typically focused on a single nucleic acid mechanism of action, i.e. RNAi or mRNA translational inhibition or exon skipping or miRNA replacement therapy. Some of these companies only have a proprietary position around either chemistry or delivery and in fewer cases, their proprietary position arises from their belief that they can patent biology, i.e. miRNA targets. We believe we are the only company in the unique position of having proprietary chemistry and delivery technologies sufficient to pursue multiple nucleic acid mechanisms of action, i.e. RNAi and mRNA translational inhibition and exon skipping and miRNA replacement therapy. Such single mechanism of action competitors include: Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, Arcturus, Benitec Biopharma, Dicerna Pharmaceuticals, Isis Pharmaceuticals, miRagen Therapeutics, Mirna, Prosensa Therapeutics, Quark Pharmaceuticals, Regulus Therapeutics, Silence Therapeutics, and Tekmira. Several companies have clinical stage programs with the majority in an orphan disease indication. In particular, Isis has an early stage clinical program in DM1, while Prosensa and Sarepta Therapeutics, Inc. have late stage clinical programs in DMD. Universities and public and private research institutions are also potential competitors. While these organizations primarily have educational objectives, they may develop proprietary technologies related to the drug delivery field or secure protection that we may need for development of our technologies and products. We may attempt to license one or more of these proprietary technologies, but these licenses may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. Most of our competitors have substantially greater resources, manufacturing capabilities, regulatory expertise, sales and marketing resources, and established collaborative arrangements with pharmaceutical companies. Our competitors, either alone or with their collaborators, may succeed in developing product candidates that are similar or preferable in effectiveness, safety, cost and ease of commercialization, and our competitors may obtain IP protection or commercialize competitive products sooner than we do. GOVERNMENT REGULATION Government authorities in the U.S. and other countries extensively regulate the research, development, testing, manufacture, labeling, promotion, advertising, distribution and marketing, among other things, of drugs and biologic products. All of our foreseeable product candidates (including those for human use that may be developed by our partners based on our licensed technologies) are expected to be regulated as drug products. In the U.S., the FDA regulates drug products under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (the “FDCA”), and other laws within the Public Health Service Act. Failure to comply with applicable U.S. requirements, both before and after approval, may subject us to administrative and judicial sanctions, such as a delay in approving or refusal by the FDA to approve pending applications, warning letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, injunctions, and/or criminal prosecutions. Before our drug products are marketed they must be approved by the FDA. The steps required before a novel drug product is approved by the FDA include: (1) pre-clinical laboratory, animal, and formulation tests; (2) submission to the FDA of an Investigational New Drug Application (“IND”) for human clinical testing, which must become effective before human clinical trials may begin; (3) adequate and well-controlled clinical trials to establish the safety and effectiveness of the product for each indication for which approval is sought; (4) submission to the FDA of a New Drug Application (“NDA”); (5) satisfactory completion of an FDA inspection of the manufacturing facility or facilities at which the drug product is produced to assess compliance with cGMP and FDA review and finally (6) approval of an NDA. Pre-clinical tests include laboratory evaluations of product chemistry, toxicity and formulation, as well as animal studies. The results of the pre-clinical tests, together with manufacturing information and analytical data, are submitted to the FDA as part of an IND, which must become effective before human clinical trials may begin. An IND will automatically become effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless before that time the FDA raises concerns or questions, such as the conduct of the trials as outlined in the IND. In such a case, the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding FDA concerns or questions before clinical trials can proceed. There can be no assurance that submission of an IND will result in FDA authorization to commence clinical trials. Once an 14 Table of Contents IND is in effect, each clinical trial to be conducted under the IND must be submitted to the FDA, which may or may not allow the trial to proceed. Clinical trials involve the administration of the investigational drug to human subjects under the supervision of qualified physician-investigators and healthcare personnel. Clinical trials are typically conducted in three defined phases, but the phases may overlap or be combined. Phase 1 usually involves the initial administration of the investigational drug or biologic product to healthy individuals to evaluate its safety, dosage tolerance and pharmacodynamics. Phase 2 usually involves trials in a limited patient population, with the disease or condition for which the test material is being developed, to evaluate dosage tolerance and appropriate dosage; identify possible adverse side effects and safety risks; and preliminarily evaluate the effectiveness of the drug or biologic for specific indications. Phase 3 trials usually further evaluate effectiveness and test further for safety by administering the drug or biologic candidate in its final form in an expanded patient population. Our product development partners, the FDA, or we may suspend clinical trials, if any, at any time on various grounds, including any situation where we or our partners believe that patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk or are obtaining no medical benefit from the test material. Assuming successful completion of the required clinical testing, the results of the pre-clinical trials and the clinical trials, together with other detailed information, including information on the manufacture and composition of the product, are submitted to the FDA in the form of an NDA requesting approval to market the product for one or more indications. Before approving an application, the FDA will usually inspect the facilities where the product is manufactured, and will not approve the product unless cGMP compliance is satisfactory. If the FDA determines the NDA is not acceptable, the FDA may outline the deficiencies in the NDA and often will request additional information. If the FDA approves the NDA, certain changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications, manufacturing changes or additional labeling claims are subject to further FDA review and approval. The testing and approval process requires substantial time, effort and financial resources, and we cannot be sure that any approval will be granted on a timely basis, if at all. Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant orphan drug designation to a drug intended to treat a rare disease or condition, which is generally a disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States, or more than 200,000 individuals in the U.S. and for which there is no reasonable expectation that the cost of developing and making available in the U.S. a drug for this type of disease or condition will be recovered from sales in the U.S. for that drug. Orphan drug designation must be requested before submitting an NDA. After the FDA grants orphan drug designation, the identity of the therapeutic agent and its potential orphan use are disclosed publicly by the FDA. If a product that has orphan drug designation subsequently receives the first FDA approval for the disease for which it has such designation, the product is entitled to orphan product exclusivity, which means that the FDA may not approve any other applications, including a full BLA, to market the same drug for the same indication, except in very limited circumstances, for seven years. The FDA granted orphan drug designation to CEQ508 for the treatment of FAP in December 2010. In addition, regardless of the type of approval, we and our partners are required to comply with a number of FDA requirements both before and after approval. For example, we and our partners are required to report certain adverse reactions and production problems, if any, to the FDA, and to comply with certain requirements concerning advertising and promotion for products. In addition, quality control and manufacturing procedures must continue to conform to cGMP after approval, and the FDA periodically inspects manufacturing facilities to assess compliance with cGMP. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money and effort in all areas of regulatory compliance, including production and quality control to comply with cGMP. In addition, discovery of problems, such as safety problems, may result in changes in labeling or restrictions on a product manufacturer or NDA holder, including removal of the product from the market. PRODUCT LIABILITY We currently do not carry product liability insurance as no patients are currently being treated with our products. We will renew our product liability insurance portfolio on the resumption of patient access to our products. ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE Our research and development activities have involved the controlled use of potentially harmful biological materials as well as hazardous materials, chemicals and various radioactive compounds. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and specific waste products. We are also subject to numerous environmental, health and workplace safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures, exposure to blood-borne pathogens and the handling of bio-hazardous materials. The cost of compliance with these laws and regulations could be significant and may adversely affect capital expenditures to the extent we are required to procure expensive capital equipment to meet regulatory requirements. At this time, we are not conducting any R&D activities that require compliance with federal, state or local laws. 15 Table of Contents EMPLOYEES On June 1, 2012, we announced that, due to our financial condition, we had implemented a furlough of approximately 90% of our employees and ceased substantially all day-to-day operations. As of July 14, 2014, only our CEO remains an employee. All other employees have either resigned or been terminated. None of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. COMPANY INFORMATION We are a reporting company and are required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. You may read and copy these reports, proxy statements and other information at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 or e-mail the SEC at publicinfo@sec.gov for more information on the operation of the public reference room. Our SEC filings are also available at the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov. Our Internet address is http://www.marinabio.com. There we make available, free of charge, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the SEC. 16 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. RISKS RELATING TO BEING AN EARLY STAGE DRUG DEVELOPMENT COMPANY Our cash and other sources of liquidity, after giving effect to our offering of preferred stock and warrants in March 2014, may only be sufficient to fund our limited operations through May 2015. We will require substantial additional funding to continue our operations beyond that date. If additional capital is not available, we may have to curtail or cease operations, or take other actions that could adversely impact our shareholders. Our business does not generate the cash necessary to finance our operations. We incurred net losses of approximately $9.5 million in 2012 and $1.6 million in 2013. We will require significant additional capital to: ·fund research and development activities relating to our nucleic acid drug discovery platform and the development of our product candidates, including clinical and pre-clinical trials; ·obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates; ·pursue licensing opportunities for our technologies and product candidates; ·protect our intellectual property; ·attract and retain highly-qualified personnel; ·respond effectively to competitive pressures; and ·acquire complementary businesses or technologies. Our future capital needs depend on many factors, including: ·the scope, duration and expenditures associated with our research and development; ·continued scientific progress in these programs; ·the outcome of potential partnering or licensing transactions, if any; ·competing technological developments; ·our proprietary patent position, if any, in our products; and ·the regulatory approval process for our products. As a result of insufficient capital, on June 1, 2012 we announced that we had ceased substantially all day-to-day operations, including most research and development activities, and implemented a furlough of approximately 90% of our employees. As of July 14, 2014, only our CEO remains an employee. All other employees either resigned or were terminated. We have also sold substantially all of our equipment, and have ceased operations at all of our facilities. As a result, since June 1, 2012, our internal research and development efforts have been, and as of the date of this report they continue to be, minimal or non-existent. In March 2014, we raised significant funds and believe that our currently available cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to fund our limited operations through May 2015. We will need to raise substantial additional funds through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or additional strategic alliances and licensing arrangements to continue our operations beyond May 2015. To the extent that we wish to conduct significant pre-clinical activities prior to that date, which we plan to do, we will have to raise capital to do so. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. General market conditions, as well as market conditions for companies that have recently faced, financial distress, may make it very difficult for us to seek financing from the capital markets, and the terms of any financing may adversely affect the holdings or the rights of our stockholders. For example, if we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, further dilution to our stockholders will result, which may substantially dilute the value of their investment. In addition, as a condition to providing additional funds to us, future investors may demand, and may be granted, rights superior to those of existing stockholders. Debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants that could limit our flexibility to conduct future business activities and, in the event of insolvency, could be paid before holders of equity securities received any distribution of corporate assets. We may be required to relinquish rights to our technologies or drug candidates, or grant licenses through alliance, joint venture or agreements on terms that are not favorable to us, in order to raise additional funds. If adequate funds are not available, we may have to further delay, reduce or eliminate one or more of our planned activities. These actions would likely reduce the market price of our common stock. We have no history of profitability and there is a potential for fluctuation in operating results. We have experienced significant operating losses since inception. We currently have no revenues from product sales and will not have any such revenues unless and until a marketable product is successfully developed by us or our partners, receives regulatory approvals, and is successfully manufactured and distributed to the market. We expect to continue to experience losses for the 17 Table of Contents foreseeable future. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Forward-Looking Statements”. We and our partners are developing products based on modulation of coding and non-coding RNA targets. The process of developing such products requires significant research and development efforts, including basic research, pre-clinical and clinical development, and regulatory approval. These activities, together with our sales, marketing, general and administrative expenses, have resulted in operating losses in the past, and there can be no assurance that we can achieve profitability in the future. Our ability to achieve profitability depends on our ability, alone or with our partners, to develop drug candidates, conduct pre-clinical development and clinical trials, obtain necessary regulatory approvals, and manufacture, distribute, market and sell drug products. We cannot assure our stockholders of the success of any of these activities or predict if or when we will ever become profitable. If we are unable to raise sufficient additional capital, we may seek to merge with or be acquired by another entity, and that transaction may adversely affect our business and the value of our securities. If we are unable to raise sufficient additional capital, we may seek to merge or combine with, or otherwise be acquired by, another entity with a stronger cash position, complementary work force, or product candidate portfolio or for other reasons. We believe the market price for our common stock may not accurately reflect the value of our business. While we will continue to seek to maximize the value of our business to our stockholders, the most attractive option for doing so may require us to consummate a transaction involving a merger or combination of our company with, or an acquisition of our company by, another entity. There are numerous risks associated with merging, combining or otherwise being acquired. These risks include, among others, incorrectly assessing the quality of a prospective acquirer or merger-partner, encountering greater than anticipated costs in integrating businesses, facing resistance from employees and being unable to profitably deploy the assets of the new entity. The operations, financial condition, and prospects of the post-transaction entity depend in part on our and our acquirer/merger-partner’s ability to successfully integrate the operations related to our product candidates, business and technologies. We may be unable to integrate operations successfully or to achieve expected cost savings, and any cost savings that are realized may be offset by losses in revenues or other charges to operations. As a result, our stockholders may not realize the full value of their investment. If we lose our remaining key personnel, or if we are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, then we may be unable to successfully develop our business. If we are unable to retain J. Michael French, our President and Chief Executive Officer, or any other executive officers that we hire after the date of this report, our business could be seriously harmed. In addition, if we are unable to attract qualified personnel as we seek to re-start our operations, our business could be seriously harmed. Whether or not our key managers or our key personal have executed an employment agreement, there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain them or replace any of them if we lose their services for any reason. This uncertainty is particularly true given our current financial condition, recent history and requirements necessary to potentially restart research operations. Failure to attract and retain qualified personnel may compromise our ability to negotiate and enter into additional collaborative arrangements, delay our research and development efforts, delay testing of our product candidates, delay the regulatory approval process or prevent us from successfully commercializing our product candidates. In addition, if we have to replace any of these individuals, we may not be able to replace knowledge that they have about our operations. If we make strategic acquisitions, we will incur a variety of costs and might never realize the anticipated benefits. We have limited experience in independently identifying acquisition candidates and integrating the operations of acquisition candidates with our company, and we currently have a limited number of personnel available to assist with such activities. If appropriate opportunities become available, we might attempt to acquire approved products, additional drug candidates, technologies or businesses that we believe are a strategic fit with our business. If we pursue any transaction of that sort, the process of negotiating the acquisition and integrating an acquired product, drug candidate, technology or business might result in operating difficulties and expenditures and might require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business, whether or not any such transaction is ever consummated. Moreover, we might never realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, or impairment expenses related to goodwill, and impairment or amortization expenses related to other intangible assets, which could harm our financial condition. Failure of our internal control over financial reporting could harm our business and financial results. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Internal control over financial reporting includes maintaining records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect our transactions; providing reasonable assurance 18 Table of Contents that transactions are recorded as necessary for preparation of the financial statements; providing reasonable assurance that receipts and expenditures of our assets are made in accordance with management authorization; and providing reasonable assurance that unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements would be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud. Our recent financial condition and the loss of personnel have placed pressure on our system of internal control over financial reporting, thereby contributing to the material weaknesses further described in the “Management Report on Internal Control” contained in paragraph (c) of Item 9A of this Annual Report. Our business and operations could suffer in the event of system failures. Our internal computer systems and those of our contractors and consultants are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures. Such events could cause interruption of our operations. For example, the loss of pre-clinical trial data or data from completed or ongoing clinical trials for our product candidates, if any, could result in delays in our regulatory filings and development efforts and significantly increase our costs. To the extent that any disruption or security breach were to result in a loss of or damage to our data, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we could incur liability and the development of our product candidates could be delayed. RISKS RELATED TO THE DEVELOPMENT AND REGULATORY APPROVAL OF OUR DRUG CANDIDATES RNA -based drug development is unproven and may never lead to marketable products. Our future success depends on the successful development, by us or our partners, of RNA-based products and technologies. Neither we nor any other company, including any of our partners, has received regulatory approval to market siRNA, antagomir or miRNA mimics as therapeutic agents. The scientific discoveries that form the basis for our efforts to discover and develop new RNA-based drugs are relatively new. The scientific evidence to support the feasibility of developing drugs based on these discoveries is both preliminary and limited. Relatively few RNA-based product candidates have ever been tested in animals or humans, none of which have received regulatory approval. We currently have only limited data suggesting that we can introduce typical drug-like properties and characteristics into oligonucleotides, such as favorable distribution within the body or tissues or the ability to enter cells and exert their intended effects. In addition, RNA-based compounds may not demonstrate in patients the chemical and pharmacological properties ascribed to them in laboratory studies, and they may interact with human biological systems in unforeseen, ineffective or harmful ways. We may make significant expenditures developing RNA-based technologies without success. As a result, we and our partners may never develop a marketable product utilizing our technologies. If neither we nor any of our partners develops and commercializes drugs based upon our technologies, we may not become profitable. Further, our focus on oligonucleotide-based drug discovery and development, as opposed to more proven technologies for drug development, increases the risks associated with the ownership of our common stock. If neither we nor any of our partners is successful in developing a product candidate using our technology, we may be required to change the scope and direction of our activities. In that case, we may not be able to identify and implement successfully an alternative business strategy. All of our programs, other than our program for CEQ508, are in pre-clinical studies or early stage research. If we are unable to develop and commercialize our product candidates, our business will be adversely affected. A key element of our strategy is to discover, develop and commercialize a portfolio of new products through internal efforts and through those of our current or future strategic partnerships. Whether or not any product candidates are ultimately identified, research programs to identify new disease targets and product candidates require substantial technical, financial and human resources, which we currently do not have. These research programs may initially show promise in identifying potential product candidates, yet fail to yield a successful commercial product for many reasons, including the following: ·competitors may develop alternatives that render our product candidates (or those of our partners) obsolete; ·a product candidate may not have a sustainable intellectual property position in major markets; ·a product candidate may, after additional studies, be shown to have harmful side effects or other characteristics that indicate it is unlikely to be effective; ·a product candidate may not receive regulatory approval; ·a product candidate may not be capable of production in commercial quantities at an acceptable cost, or at all; or ·a product candidate may not be accepted by patients, the medical community or third-party payors. 19 Table of Contents Upon entering into clinical trials, clinical trials of product candidates utilizing our technologies would be expensive and time-consuming, and the results of any of these trials would be uncertain. The research and development programs of our company and our partners with respect to oligonucleotide-based products are at an early stage. Before obtaining regulatory approval for the sale of any product candidates, we and our partners must conduct expensive and extensive pre-clinical tests and clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy in humans of such product candidates. Pre-clinical and clinical testing in patients is a long, expensive and uncertain process, and the historical failure rate for product candidates is high. The length of time generally varies substantially according to the type of drug, complexity of clinical trial design, regulatory compliance requirements, intended use of the drug candidate and rate of patient enrollment for the clinical trials. A failure of one or more pre-clinical studies or clinical trials can occur at any stage of testing. We and our partners may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, the pre-clinical testing and the clinical trial process that could delay or prevent the receipt of regulatory approval or the commercialization of our product candidates, including: ·regulators may not authorize us to commence a clinical trial or conduct a clinical trial at a prospective trial site; ·pre-clinical tests or clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we or a partner may decide, or a regulator may require us, to conduct additional pre-clinical testing or clinical trials, or we or a partner may abandon projects that were previously expected to be promising; ·enrollment in clinical trials may be slower than anticipated or participants may drop out of clinical trials at a higher rate than anticipated, resulting in significant delays; ·third party contractors may fail to comply with regulatory requirements or meet their contractual obligations in a timely manner; ·product candidates may have very different chemical and pharmacological properties in humans than in laboratory testing and may interact with human biological systems in unforeseen, ineffective or harmful ways; ·the suspension or termination of clinical trials if the participants are being exposed to unacceptable health risks; ·regulators, including the FDA, may require that clinical research be held, suspended or terminated for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements; ·the cost of clinical trials may be greater than anticipated; ·the supply or quality of drug candidates or other materials necessary to conduct clinical trials may be insufficient or inadequate; and ·effects of product candidates may not have the desired effects or may include undesirable side effects or the product candidates may have other unexpected characteristics. Further, even if the results of pre-clinical studies or clinical trials are initially positive, it is possible that we or a partner will obtain different results in the later stages of drug development or that results seen in clinical trials will not continue with longer term treatment. Drugs in late stages of clinical development may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy traits despite having progressed through initial clinical testing. For example, positive results in early Phase 1 or Phase 2 clinical trials may not be repeated in larger Phase 2 or Phase 3 clinical trials. It is expected that all of the drug candidates that may be developed by us or our partners based on our technologies will be prone to the risks of failure inherent in drug development. The clinical trials of any or all of the drug candidates of us or our partners could be unsuccessful, which would prevent the commercialization of these drugs. The FDA conducts its own independent analysis of some or all of the pre-clinical and clinical trial data submitted in a regulatory filing and often comes to different and potentially more negative conclusions than the analysis performed by the drug sponsor. The failure to develop safe, commercially viable drugs approved by the FDA would substantially impair our ability to generate revenues and sustain our operations and would materially harm our business and adversely affect our stock price. In addition, significant delays in pre-clinical studies and clinical trials will impede the ability of us or a partner to seek regulatory approvals, commercialize drug candidates and generate revenue, as well as substantially increase development costs. Even if regulatory approvals are obtained for our products, such products will be subject to ongoing regulatory review. If we or a partner fail to comply with continuing U.S. and foreign regulations, the approvals to market drugs could be lost and our business would be materially adversely affected. Following any initial FDA or foreign regulatory approval of any drugs we or a partner may develop, such drugs will continue to be subject to regulatory review, including the review of adverse drug experiences and clinical results that are reported after such drugs are made available to patients. This would include results from any post marketing studies or vigilance required as a condition of approval. The manufacturer and manufacturing facilities used to make any drug candidates will also be subject to periodic review and inspection by regulatory authorities, including the FDA. The discovery of any new or previously unknown problems with the product, manufacturer or facility may result in restrictions on the drug or manufacturer or facility, including withdrawal of the drug from the market. Marketing, advertising and labeling also will be subject to regulatory requirements and continuing regulatory review. The 20 Table of Contents failure to comply with applicable continuing regulatory requirements may result in fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approval, product recalls and seizures, operating restrictions and other adverse consequences. We and our partners are subject to extensive U.S. and foreign government regulation, including the requirement of approval before products may be manufactured or marketed. We, our present and future collaborators, and the drug product candidates developed by us or in collaboration with partners are subject to extensive regulation by governmental authorities in the U.S. and other countries. Failure to comply with applicable requirements could result in, among other things, any of the following actions: warning letters, fines and other civil penalties, unanticipated expenditures, delays in approving or refusal to approve a product candidate, product recall or seizure, interruption of manufacturing or clinical trials, operating restrictions, injunctions and criminal prosecution. The product candidates of us and our partners cannot be marketed in the U.S. without FDA approval or clearance, and they cannot be marketed in foreign countries without applicable regulatory approval. Neither the FDA nor any foreign regulatory authority has approved any of the product candidates being developed by us or our partners based on our technologies. These product candidates are in pre-clinical and early clinical development, and will have to be approved by the FDA or applicable foreign regulatory authorities before they can be marketed in the U.S. or abroad. Obtaining regulatory approval requires substantial time, effort, and financial resources, and may be subject to both expected and unforeseen delays, including, without limitation, citizen’s petitions or other filings with the FDA, and there can be no assurance that any approval will be granted on a timely basis, if at all, or that delays will be resolved favorably or in a timely manner. If our product candidates are not approved in a timely fashion, or are not approved at all, our business and financial condition may be adversely affected. In addition, both before and after regulatory approval, we, our collaborators and our product candidates are subject to numerous requirements by the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities covering, among other things, testing, manufacturing, quality control, labeling, advertising, promotion, distribution and export. These requirements may change and additional government regulations may be promulgated that could affect us, our collaborators or our product candidates. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the U.S. or abroad. There can be no assurance that neither we nor any of our partners will be required to incur significant costs to comply with such laws and regulations in the future or that such laws or regulations will not have a material adverse effect upon our business. We have used, and may continue to use, hazardous chemicals and biological materials in our business. Any disputes relating to improper use, handling, storage or disposal of these materials could be time-consuming and costly. Our research and development operations have involved, and if continued in the future will likely continue to involve, the use of hazardous and biological, potentially infectious, materials. Such use subjects us to the risk of accidental contamination or discharge or any resultant injury from these materials. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and specific waste products. We could be subject to damages, fines or penalties in the event of an improper or unauthorized release of, or exposure of individuals to, these hazardous materials, and our liability could be substantial. The costs of complying with these current and future environmental laws and regulations may be significant, thereby impairing our business. We are also subject to numerous environmental, health and workplace safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures, exposure to blood-borne pathogens and the handling of biohazardous materials. We maintain workers’ compensation insurance to cover us for costs and expenses we may incur due to injuries to our employees resulting from the use of these materials. The limits of our workers’ compensation insurance are mandated by state law, and our workers’ compensation liability is capped at these state-mandated limits. We do not maintain insurance for environmental liability or toxic tort claims that may be asserted against us in connection with our storage or disposal of biological, hazardous or radioactive materials. Additional federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting our operations may be adopted in the future. We may incur substantial costs to comply with, and substantial fines or penalties if we violate, any of these laws or regulations. Failure to comply with foreign regulatory requirements governing human clinical trials and marketing approval for drugs could prevent the sale of drug candidates based on our technologies in foreign markets, which may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement for marketing drug candidates based on our technologies outside the U.S. vary greatly from country to country. We have, and our partners may have, limited experience in obtaining foreign regulatory approvals. The time required to obtain approvals outside the U.S. may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. Neither we nor our partners may be able to obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign 21 Table of Contents regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or by the FDA. Failure to comply with these regulatory requirements or obtain required approvals could restrict the development of foreign markets for our drug candidates and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. RISKS RELATED TO OUR DEPENDENCE ON THIRD PARTIES We may become dependent on our collaborative arrangements with third parties for a substantial portion of our revenue, and our development and commercialization activities may be delayed or reduced if we fail to initiate, negotiate or maintain successful collaborative arrangements. We are, in part, dependent on current and possible future collaborators to develop and commercialize products based on our technologies, and to provide the regulatory compliance, sales, marketing and distribution capabilities required for the success of our business. If we fail to secure or maintain successful collaborative arrangements, our development and commercialization activities will be delayed, reduced or terminated, and our revenues could be materially and adversely impacted. Over the next several years, we may depend on these types of collaborations for a significant portion of our revenue. The expected future milestone and royalty payments and cost reimbursements from collaboration agreements could provide an important source of financing for our research and development programs, thereby facilitating the application of our technology to the development and commercialization of our products. These collaborative agreements might be terminated either by us or by our partners upon the satisfaction of certain notice requirements. Our partners may not be precluded from independently pursuing competing products and drug delivery approaches or technologies. Even if our partners continue their contributions to our collaborative arrangements, of which there can be no assurance, they may nevertheless determine not to actively pursue the development or commercialization of any resulting products. Our partners may fail to perform their obligations under the collaborative arrangements or may be slow in performing their obligations. In addition, our partners may experience financial difficulties at any time that could prevent them from having available funds to contribute to these collaborations. If our collaborators fail to conduct their commercialization, regulatory compliance, sales and marketing or distribution activities successfully and in a timely manner, or if they terminate or materially modify their agreements with us, the development and commercialization of one or more product candidates could be delayed, curtailed or terminated because we may not have sufficient financial resources or capabilities to continue such development and commercialization on our own. For example, since the beginning of 2011, we have entered into agreements with Mirna, ProNAi, Monsanto, and Avecia regarding the development and/or commercialization of certain programs and technologies in specified fields of use. We may receive milestone and/or royalty payments as a result of each of these agreements. If our partner with respect to any agreement terminates the applicable agreement or fails to perform its obligations thereunder, we may not receive any revenues from the technology that we have licensed pursuant to the agreement, including any milestone or royalty payments. An interruption in the supply of raw and bulk materials needed for the development of our product candidates could cause product development to be slowed or stopped. We and our partners may obtain supplies of critical raw and bulk materials used in research and development efforts from several suppliers, and long-term contracts may not be in place with any or all of these suppliers. While existing arrangements may supply sufficient quantities of raw and bulk materials needed to accomplish the current preclinical and clinical development of product candidates, there can be no assurance that sufficient quantities of product candidates could be manufactured if our suppliers are unable or unwilling to supply such materials. Any delay or disruption in the availability of raw or bulk materials could slow or stop research and development of the relevant product. We rely and anticipate that we will continue to rely on third parties to conduct clinical trials, and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily, including failing to meet established deadlines for the completion of such clinical trials. We are, and anticipate that we and certain of our partners will continue to be, dependent on contract research organizations, third-party vendors and investigators for pre-clinical testing and clinical trials related to drug discovery and development efforts. These parties are not employed by us or our partners, and neither we nor our partners can control the amount or timing of resources that they devote to our programs. If they fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our drug development programs or if their performance is substandard, it will delay the development and commercialization of our product candidates. The parties with which we and our partners contract for execution of clinical trials play a significant role in the conduct of the trials and the subsequent collection and analysis of data. Their failure to meet their obligations could adversely affect clinical development of our product candidates. Moreover, these parties also may have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which may compete with us and our partners. If they assist our competitors, it could harm our competitive position. 22 Table of Contents If we or our partners lose our relationship with any one or more of these parties, there could be a significant delay in both identifying another comparable provider and then contracting for its services. An alternative provider may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all. Even if we locate an alternative provider, is it likely that this provider may need additional time to respond to our needs and may not provide the same type or level of service as the original provider. In addition, any alternative provider will be subject to current Good Laboratory Practices (“cGLP”) and similar foreign standards and neither we nor our partners have control over compliance with these regulations by these providers. Consequently, if these providers do not adhere to these practices and standards, the development and commercialization of our product candidates could be delayed. We do not have experience in marketing, selling or distributing our products, and we may need to rely on marketing partners or contract sales companies. Even if we are able to develop our products and obtain necessary regulatory approvals, we do not have experience or capabilities in marketing, selling or distributing our products. We currently have no sales, marketing and distribution infrastructure. Accordingly, we will be dependent on our ability to build this capability ourselves, which would require the investment of significant financial and management resources, or to find collaborative marketing partners or contract sales companies for commercial sale of our internally-developed products. Even if we find a potential marketing partner, of which there can be no assurance, we may not be able to negotiate a licensing contract on favorable terms to justify our investment or achieve adequate revenues. We have very limited manufacturing experience or resources, and we must incur significant costs to develop this expertise or rely on third parties to manufacture our products. We have very limited manufacturing experience. Prior to the cessation of substantially all of our business activities in June 2012, our internal manufacturing capabilities were limited to small-scale production of non-cGMP material for use in in vitro and in vivo experiments. Some of our product candidates utilize specialized formulations whose scale-up and manufacturing could be very difficult. We also have very limited experience in such scale-up and manufacturing, requiring us to depend on a limited number of third parties, who might not be able to deliver in a timely manner, or at all. In order to develop products, apply for regulatory approvals and commercialize our products, we will need to develop, contract for, or otherwise arrange for the necessary manufacturing capabilities. We may manufacture clinical trial materials ourselves or we may rely on others to manufacture the materials we will require for any clinical trials that we initiate. For example, in restarting our FAP clinical trial, we may find that the clinical trial material is no longer suitable for the FAP clinical trial in that the material no longer meets certain specifications agreed upon with the FDA. If we need to remanufacture clinical trial material to restart the FAP trial, we may incur substantial delays and costs associated with the manufacturing new clinical material. There are a limited number of manufacturers that supply RNA. We have relied on several contract manufacturers for our supply of synthetic RNA. There are risks inherent in pharmaceutical manufacturing that could affect the ability of our contract manufacturers to meet our delivery time requirements or provide adequate amounts of material to meet our needs. Included in these risks are synthesis and purification failures and contamination during the manufacturing process, which could result in unusable product and cause delays in our development process, as well as additional expense to us. To fulfill our RNA requirements, if any, we may also need to secure alternative suppliers of synthetic RNAs. In addition to the manufacture of the synthetic RNAs, we may have additional manufacturing requirements related to the technology required to deliver the RNA to the relevant cell or tissue type. In some cases, the delivery technology we utilize is highly specialized or proprietary, and for technical and legal reasons, we may have access to only one or a limited number of potential manufacturers for such delivery technology. Failure by these manufacturers to properly formulate our RNAs for delivery could also result in unusable product and cause delays in our discovery and development process, as well as additional expense to us. The manufacturing process for any products based on our technologies that we or our partners may develop is subject to the FDA and foreign regulatory authority approval process and we (or our partners) will need to contract with manufacturers who can meet all applicable FDA and foreign regulatory authority requirements on an ongoing basis. In addition, if we receive the necessary regulatory approval for any product candidate, we also expect to rely on third parties, including our commercial collaborators, to produce materials required for commercial supply. We may experience difficulty in obtaining adequate manufacturing capacity for our needs. If we are unable to obtain or maintain contract manufacturing for these product candidates, or to do so on commercially reasonable terms, we may not be able to successfully develop and commercialize our products. To the extent that we enter into manufacturing arrangements with third parties, we will depend on these third parties to perform their obligations in a timely manner and consistent with regulatory requirements, including those related to quality control and quality assurance. The failure of a third-party manufacturer to perform its obligations as expected could adversely affect our business in a number of ways, including: ·we may not be able to initiate or continue pre-clinical and clinical trials of products that are under development; 23 Table of Contents ·we may be delayed in submitting regulatory applications, or receiving regulatory approvals, for our product candidates; ·we may lose the cooperation of our collaborators; ·our products could be the subject of inspections by regulatory authorities; ·we may be required to cease distribution or recall some or all batches of our products; and ·ultimately, we may not be able to meet commercial demands for our products. If a third-party manufacturer with whom we contract fails to perform its obligations, we may be forced to manufacture the materials ourselves, for which we may not have the capabilities or resources, or enter into an agreement with a different third-party manufacturer, which we may not be able to do on reasonable terms, if at all. In some cases, the technical skills required to manufacture our product may be unique to the original manufacturer and we may have difficulty transferring such skills to a back-up or alternate supplier, or we may be unable to transfer such skills at all. In addition, if we are required to change manufacturers for any reason, as may be the case for additional clinical material for the FAP clinical trial, we will be required to verify that the new manufacturer maintains facilities and procedures that comply with quality standards and with all applicable regulations and guidelines. The delays associated with the verification of a new manufacturer could negatively affect our ability to develop product candidates in a timely manner or within budget. Furthermore, a manufacturer may possess technology related to the manufacture of our product candidate that such manufacturer owns independently. This would increase our reliance on such manufacturer or require us to obtain a license from such manufacturer in order to have another third party manufacture our products. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND OTHER LEGAL MATTERS If we are unable to adequately protect our proprietary technology from legal challenges, infringement or alternative technologies, our competitive position may be hurt and our operating results may be negatively impacted. Our business is based upon the development and delivery of RNA-based therapeutics, and we rely on the issuance of patents, both in the U.S. and internationally, for protection against competitive technologies. Although we believe we exercise the necessary due diligence in our patent filings, our proprietary position is not established until the appropriate regulatory authorities actually issue a patent, which may take several years from initial filing or may never occur. Moreover, even the established patent positions of pharmaceutical companies are generally uncertain and involve complex legal and factual issues. Although we believe our issued patents are valid, third parties may infringe our patents or may initiate proceedings challenging the validity or enforceability of our patents. The issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its claim scope, validity or enforceability. Challenges raised in patent infringement litigation we initiate or in proceedings initiated by third parties may result in determinations that our patents have not been infringed or that they are invalid, unenforceable or otherwise subject to limitations. In the event of any such determinations, third parties may be able to use the discoveries or technologies claimed in our patents without paying us licensing fees or royalties, which could significantly diminish the value of these discoveries or technologies. As a result of such determinations, we may be enjoined from pursuing commercialization of potential products or may be required to obtain licenses, if available, to the third party patents or to develop or obtain alternative technology. Responding to challenges initiated by third parties may require significant expenditures and divert the attention of our management and key personnel from other business concerns. Furthermore, it is possible others will infringe or otherwise circumvent our issued patents and that we will be unable to fund the cost of litigation against them or that we would elect not to pursue litigation. In addition, enforcing our patents against third parties may require significant expenditures regardless of the outcome of such efforts. We also cannot assure you that others have not filed patent applications for technology covered by our pending applications or that we were the first to invent the technology. There may also exist third party patents or patent applications relevant to our potential products that may block or compete with the technologies covered by our patent applications and third parties may independently develop IP similar to our patented IP, which could result in, among other things, interference proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention. In addition, we may not be able to protect our established and pending patent positions from competitive technologies, which may provide more effective therapeutic benefit to patients and which may therefore make our products, technology and proprietary position obsolete. We also rely on copyright and trademark protection, trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovation and licensing opportunities. In an effort to maintain the confidentiality and ownership of our trade secrets and proprietary information, we have typically required our employees, consultants, advisors and others to whom we disclose confidential information to execute confidentiality and proprietary information agreements. However, it is possible that these agreements may be breached, invalidated or rendered unenforceable, and if so, there may not be an adequate corrective remedy available. Furthermore, like many companies in our industry, we may from time to time hire scientific personnel formerly employed by other companies involved in one or more areas similar to the activities we conduct. In some situations, our confidentiality and proprietary information agreements may conflict with, or be subject to, the rights of third parties with whom our employees, consultants or advisors have prior employment or consulting 24 Table of Contents relationships. Although we have typically required our employees and consultants to maintain the confidentiality of all confidential information of previous employers, we or these individuals may be subject to allegations of trade secret misappropriation or other similar claims as a result of their prior affiliations. Finally, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques, or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. Our failure to protect our proprietary information and techniques may inhibit or limit our ability to exclude certain competitors from the market and execute our business strategies. If we are unable to adequately protect our proprietary intellectual property from legal challenges, infringement or alternative technologies, we will not be able to compete effectively in the drug discovery and development business. Because intellectual property rights are of limited duration, expiration of intellectual property rights and licenses will negatively impact our operating results. Intellectual property rights, such as patents and license agreements based on those patents, generally are of limited duration. Our operating results depend on our patents and IP licenses. Therefore, the expiration or other loss of rights associated with IP and IP licenses can negatively impact our business. Our patent applications may be inadequate in terms of priority, scope or commercial value. We apply for patents covering our discoveries and technologies as we deem appropriate and as our resources permit. However, we or our partners may fail to apply for patents on important discoveries or technologies in a timely fashion or at all. Also, our pending patent applications may not result in the issuance of any patents. These applications may not be sufficient to meet the statutory requirements for patentability, and therefore we may be unable to obtain enforceable patents covering the related discoveries or technologies we may want to commercialize. In addition, because patent applications are maintained in secrecy for approximately 18 months after filing, other parties may have filed patent applications relating to inventions before our applications covering the same or similar inventions. In addition, foreign patent applications are often published initially in local languages, and until an English language translation is available it can be impossible to determine the significance of a third party invention. Any patent applications filed by third parties may prevail over our patent applications or may result in patents that issue alongside patents issued to us, leading to uncertainty over the scope of the patents or the freedom to practice the claimed inventions. Although we have acquired and in-licensed a number of issued patents, the discoveries or technologies covered by these patents may not have any therapeutic or commercial value. Also, issued patents may not provide commercially meaningful protection against competitors. Other parties may be able to design around our issued patents or independently develop products having effects similar or identical to our patented product candidates. In addition, the scope of our patents is subject to considerable uncertainty and competitors or other parties may obtain similar patents of uncertain scope. We are dependent on technologies we license, and if we lose the right to license such technologies or we fail to license new technologies in the future, our ability to develop new products would be harmed. We currently are dependent on licenses from third parties for certain of our key technologies relating to fundamental chemistry technologies. Our current licenses impose, and any future licenses we enter into are likely to impose, various development, funding, royalty, diligence, sublicensing, insurance and other obligations on us. If our license with respect to any of these technologies is terminated for any reason, the development of the products contemplated by the licenses would be delayed, or suspended altogether, while we seek to license similar technology or develop new non-infringing technology. The costs of obtaining new licenses are high, and many patents in the RNA field have already been exclusively licensed to third parties, including our competitors. If our existing license is terminated, the development of the products contemplated by the licenses could be delayed or terminated and we may not be able to negotiate additional licenses on acceptable terms, if at all, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be required to defend lawsuits or pay damages for product liability claims. Our business inherently exposes us to potential product liability claims. We may face substantial product liability exposure in human clinical trials that we may initiate and for products that we sell, or manufacture for others to sell, after regulatory approval. The risk exists even with respect to those drugs that are approved by regulatory agencies for commercial distribution and sale and are manufactured in facilities licensed and regulated by regulatory agencies. Any product liability claims, regardless of their merits, could be costly, divert management’s attention, delay or prevent completion of our clinical development programs, and adversely affect our reputation and the demand for our products. We currently do not have product liability insurance. We will need to obtain such insurance as we believe is appropriate for our stage of development and may need to obtain higher levels of such insurance if we were ever to market any of our product candidates. Any insurance we have or may obtain may not provide sufficient coverage against potential liabilities. Furthermore, clinical trial and product liability insurance is becoming increasingly expensive. As a result, we may 25 Table of Contents be unable to obtain sufficient insurance at a reasonable cost to protect us against losses caused by product liability claims that could have a material adverse effect on our business. RISKS RELATED TO THE COMMERCIALIZATION OF OUR PRODUCT CANDIDATES Our product development efforts may not result in commercial products. Our future results of operations depend, to a significant degree, upon our and any collaborators’ ability to successfully develop and commercialize pharmaceutical products. The development and commercialization process, particularly with respect to innovative products, is both time consuming and costly and involves a high degree of business risk. Successful product development in the pharmaceutical industry is highly uncertain, and very few research and development projects result in a commercial product. Product candidates that appear promising in the early phases of development, such as in preclinical testing or in early human clinical trials, may fail to reach the market for a number of reasons, such as: ·a product candidate may not perform as expected in later or broader trials in humans and limit marketability of such product candidate; ·necessary regulatory approvals may not be obtained in a timely manner, if at all; ·a product candidate may not be able to be successfully and profitably produced and marketed; ·third parties may have proprietary rights to a product candidate, and do not allow sale on reasonable terms; or ·a product candidate may not be financially successful because of existing therapeutics that offer equivalent or better treatments. Three product candidates, two through our partners ProNAi and Mirna and our own FAP therapeutic, utilizing our technologies have commenced human clinical studies, and such product candidates have not been approved by the FDA or any foreign regulatory authority. The FAP trial is currently on hold and we expect to restart the trial and dose Cohort 3 at such time that we have reestablished clinical operations, ensured the stability of the clinical material and complied with all regulatory requirements. There can be no assurance that any of these product candidates, or other product candidates that may enter research or development, will ever be successfully commercialized, and delays in any part of the process or the inability to obtain regulatory approval could adversely affect our operating results by restricting introduction of new products by us or any future collaborators. Even if we are successful in developing and commercializing a product candidate, it is possible that the commercial opportunity for oligonucleotide-based therapeutics will be limited. The product candidates based on our technologies that are being developed are based on new technologies and therapeutic approaches, none of which have yet been brought to market. Key participants in pharmaceutical marketplaces, such as physicians, third-party payors and consumers, may not accept a product intended to improve therapeutic results based on RNA mechanisms of action. Accordingly, while we believe there will be a commercial market for nucleic acid-based therapeutics utilizing our technologies, there can be no assurance that this will be the case, in particular given the novelty of the field. Many factors may affect the market acceptance and commercial success of any potential products, including: ·establishment and demonstration of the effectiveness and safety of the drugs; ·timing of market entry as compared to competitive products and alternative treatments; ·benefits of our drugs relative to their prices, and the comparative price of competing products and treatments; ·availability of adequate government and third-party payor reimbursement; ·marketing and distribution support of our products; ·safety, efficacy and ease of administration of our product candidates; ·willingness of patients to accept, and the willingness of medical professionals to prescribe, relatively new therapies; and ·any restrictions on labeled indications. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY Any drugs based on our technologies that we or any of our partners develop may become subject to unfavorable pricing regulations, third-party reimbursement practices or healthcare reform initiatives, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. The success of the products based on our technologies will depend upon the extent to which third-party payors, such as Medicare, Medicaid and other domestic and international government programs, private insurance plans and managed care programs, provide reimbursement for the use of such products. Most third-party payors may deny reimbursement if they determine that a medical product 26 Table of Contents was not used in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods, as determined by the third-party payor, or was used for an unapproved indication. Third-party payors also may refuse to reimburse for experimental procedures and devices. Furthermore, because our programs are in the early stages of development, we are unable at this time to determine their cost-effectiveness and the level or method of reimbursement. Increasingly, the third-party payors, who reimburse patients, such as government and private insurance plans, are requiring that drug companies provide them with predetermined discounts from list prices, and are challenging the prices charged for medical products. If the price charged for any products based on our technologies that we or our partners develop is inadequate in light of our development and other costs, our profitability could be adversely affected. We expect that drugs based on our technologies that we or a partner develop may need to be administered under the supervision of a physician. Under currently applicable law, drugs that are not usually self-administered may be eligible for coverage by the Medicare program if they: ·are “incidental” to a physician’s services; ·are “reasonable and necessary” for the diagnosis or treatment of the illness or injury for which they are administered according to accepted standards of medical practice; ·are not excluded as immunizations; and ·have been approved by the FDA. There may be significant delays in obtaining insurance coverage for newly-approved drugs, and insurance coverage may be more limited than the purpose for which the drug is approved by the FDA. Moreover, eligibility for insurance coverage does not imply that any drug will be reimbursed in all cases or at a rate that covers costs, including research, development, manufacture, sale and distribution. Interim payments for new drugs, if applicable, may also not be sufficient to cover costs and may not be made permanent. Reimbursement may be based on payments for other services and may reflect budgetary constraints or imperfections in Medicare data. Net prices for drugs may be reduced by mandatory discounts or rebates required by government health care programs or private payors and by any future relaxation of laws that presently restrict imports of drugs from countries where they may be sold at lower prices than in the United States. Third-party payors often rely upon Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement rates. The inability to promptly obtain coverage and profitable reimbursement rates from both government-funded and private payors for new drugs based on our technologies that we or our partners develop could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, our ability to raise capital, and our overall financial condition. We believe that the efforts of governments and third-party payors to contain or reduce the cost of healthcare and legislative and regulatory proposals to broaden the availability of healthcare will continue to affect the business and financial condition of pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies. A number of legislative and regulatory changes in the healthcare system in the United States and other major healthcare markets have been proposed in recent years, and such efforts have expanded substantially in recent years. These developments have included prescription drug benefit legislation that was enacted and took effect in January 2006, healthcare reform legislation recently enacted by certain states, and major healthcare reform legislation that was passed by Congress and enacted into law in the United States in 2010. These developments could, directly or indirectly, affect our ability to sell our products, if approved, at a favorable price. The full effects of the U.S. healthcare reform legislation cannot be known until the new law is fully implemented through regulations or guidance issued by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services and other federal and state healthcare agencies. The financial impact of the U.S. healthcare reform legislation over the next few years will depend on a number of factors, including but not limited to the policies reflected in implementing regulations and guidance, and changes in sales volumes for products affected by the new system of rebates, discounts and fees. The new legislation may also have a positive impact on our future net sales, if any, by increasing the aggregate number of persons with healthcare coverage in the United States. Moreover, we cannot predict what healthcare reform initiatives may be adopted in the future. Further federal and state legislative and regulatory developments are likely, and we expect ongoing initiatives in the United States to increase pressure on drug pricing. Such reforms could have an adverse effect on anticipated revenues from product candidates based on our technologies that are successfully developed and for which regulatory approval is obtained, and may affect our overall financial condition and ability to develop drug candidates. The pharmaceutical market is intensely competitive. If we are unable to compete effectively with existing drugs, new treatment methods and new technologies, we may be unable to commercialize successfully any drugs that we develop. 27 Table of Contents The pharmaceutical market is intensely competitive and rapidly changing. Many large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations are pursuing the development of novel drugs for the same diseases that we are targeting or expect to target. Many of our competitors have: ·much greater financial, technical and human resources than we have at every stage of the discovery, development, manufacture and commercialization of products; ·more extensive experience in pre-clinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals, and in manufacturing, marketing and selling pharmaceutical products; ·product candidates that are based on previously tested or accepted technologies; ·products that have been approved or are in late stages of development; and ·collaborative arrangements in our target markets with leading companies and research institutions. Products based on our technologies may face intense competition from drugs that have already been approved and accepted by the medical community for the treatment of the conditions for which we may develop drugs. We also expect to face competition from new drugs that enter the market. We believe a significant number of drugs are currently under development, and may become commercially available in the future, for the treatment of conditions for which we and our partners may try to develop drugs. These drugs may be more effective, safer, less expensive, or marketed and sold more effectively, than any products we and our partners develop. If we and our partners successfully develop product candidates based on our technologies, and obtain approval for them, we will face competition based on many different factors, including: ·safety and effectiveness of such products; ·ease with which such products can be administered and the extent to which patients accept relatively new routes of administration; ·timing and scope of regulatory approvals for these products; ·availability and cost of manufacturing, marketing and sales capabilities; ·price; ·reimbursement coverage; and ·patent position. Our competitors may develop or commercialize products with significant advantages over any products we develop based on any of the factors listed above or on other factors. Our competitors may therefore be more successful in commercializing their products than we are, which could adversely affect our competitive position and business. Competitive products may make any products we develop obsolete or noncompetitive before we can recover the expenses of developing and commercializing our product candidates. Such competitors could also recruit our future employees, which could negatively impact our level of expertise and the ability to execute on our business plan. Furthermore, we also face competition from existing and new treatment methods that reduce or eliminate the need for drugs, such as the use of advanced medical devices. The development of new medical devices or other treatment methods for the diseases we are targeting could make our product candidates noncompetitive, obsolete or uneconomical. We may be unable to compete successfully against other companies that are working to develop novel drugs and technology platforms using technology similar to ours. In addition to the competition we face from competing drugs in general, we also face competition from other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies and medical institutions that are working to develop novel drugs using technology that competes more directly with our own. Among those companies that are working in this field are: Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, Arcturus, Benitec Biopharma, Dicerna Pharmaceuticals, Isis Pharmaceuticals, miRagen Therapeutics, Mirna, Prosensa Therapeutics, Quark Pharmaceuticals, Regulus Therapeutics, Silence Therapeutics, and Tekmira. Any of these companies may develop its technology more rapidly and more effectively than us. In addition to competition with respect to our technology and with respect to specific products, we and our partners face substantial competition to discover and develop safe and effective means to deliver the drugs based on our technologies that are developed to the relevant cell and tissue types. Substantial resources are being expended by third parties, both in academic laboratories and in the corporate sector, in the effort to discover and develop a safe and effective means of delivery into the relevant cell and tissue types. If safe and effective means of delivery to the relevant cell and tissue types were developed by our competitors, our ability to successfully commercialize a competitive product would be adversely affected. Many of our competitors have substantially greater research and development capabilities and financial, scientific, technical, manufacturing, marketing, distribution, and other resources than us. Even if we and our partners are successful in developing product 28 Table of Contents candidates based on our technologies, in order to compete successfully we may need to be first to market or to demonstrate that our products are superior to therapies based on different technologies. If we are not first to market or are unable to demonstrate such superiority, any products for which we are able to obtain approval may not be successful. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK The trading price of our common stock has been volatile, and investors in our common stock may experience substantial losses. The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and may become volatile again in the future. The trading price of our common stock could decline or fluctuate in response to a variety of factors, including: ·our general financial condition and ability to maintain sufficient capital to continue operations; ·our ability to enter into and maintain collaborative arrangements with third parties; ·our ability to meet the performance estimates of securities analysts; ·changes in buy/sell recommendations by securities analysts; ·negative results from clinical and pre-clinical trials; ·fluctuation in our quarterly operating results; ·reverse splits or increases in authorized shares; ·substantial sales of our common stock; ·general stock market conditions; or ·other economic or external factors. The stock markets in general, and the markets for the securities of companies in our industry in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. We may not be able to consistently satisfy our reporting obligations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and may be subject to penalties as a result of such failure. Prior to the filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012, which we filed on July 22, 2014, we did not file with the Securities and Exchange Commission any of the quarterly or annual reports that we are required to file pursuant to Section 13 of the Exchange Act since the filing of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ending on September 30, 2012, which we filed on December 5, 2012. Our failure to satisfy our filing requirements under the Exchange Act in a timely manner could result in the suspension of trading in our common stock, either on a temporary or a permanent basis, as well as other penalties that may be imposed by the Commission. In addition, as per the Securities Purchase Agreement that we entered into with certain accredited investors dated as of March 7, 2014, if we are not current with respect to the filing of all reports required to be filed by us pursuant to Sections 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act (other than Form 8-K reports) by September 1, 2014, such that we are in compliance with Rule 144(c)(1), we will pay monthly cash penalties to each purchaser of our Series C Preferred Stock pursuant to such Securities Purchase Agreement, until such time as such purchasers may sell the shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of the Series C Preferred Stock and upon exercise of the warrants issued pursuant to such Securities Purchase Agreement, without restriction or limitation pursuant to Rule 144 (assuming, for such purpose, the cashless exercise of such warrants). We may not be able to achieve secondary trading of our stock in certain states because our common stock is not nationally traded. Because our common stock is not listed for trading on a national securities exchange, our common stock is subject to the securities laws of the various states and jurisdictions of the U.S. in addition to federal securities law. This regulation covers any primary offering we might attempt and all secondary trading by our stockholders. If we fail to take appropriate steps to register our common stock or qualify for exemptions for our common stock in certain states or jurisdictions of the U.S., the investors in those jurisdictions where we have not taken such steps may not be allowed to purchase our stock or those who presently hold our stock may not be able to resell their shares without substantial effort and expense. These restrictions and potential costs could be significant burdens on our stockholders. Our common stock is traded on the OTC Pink tier of the OTC Markets, which may limit the ability of our stockholders to sell their securities, and may cause volatility in the price of our common stock. Our common stock currently trades on the OTC Pink tier of the OTC Markets. Securities trading on the OTC Pink markets often experience a lack of liquidity as compared to securities trading on a national securities exchange or the OTC Bulletin Board. Such securities also have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations in recent years, which have particularly affected the market 29 Table of Contents prices of many smaller companies like ours. We anticipate that our common stock will be subject to the lack of liquidity and this volume and price volatility that is characteristic of the OTC Pink markets. Our common stock may be considered a “penny stock,” and thereby be subject to additional sale and trading regulations that may make it more difficult to sell. Our common stock may be considered to be a “penny stock” if it does not qualify for one of the exemptions from the definition of “penny stock” under Section 3a51-1 of the Exchange Act. The principal result or effect of being designated a “penny stock” is that securities broker-dealers participating in sales of our common stock will be subject to the “penny stock” regulations set forth in Rules 15-2 through 15g-9 promulgated under the Exchange Act. For example, Rule 15g-2 requires broker-dealers dealing in penny stocks to provide potential investors with a document disclosing the risks of penny stocks and to obtain a manually signed and dated written receipt of the document at least two business days before effecting any transaction in a penny stock for the investor’s account. Moreover, Rule 15g-9 requires broker-dealers in penny stocks to approve the account of any investor for transactions in such stocks before selling any penny stock to that investor. This procedure requires the broker-dealer to (i) obtain from the investor information concerning his or her financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives; (ii) reasonably determine, based on that information, that transactions in penny stocks are suitable for the investor and that the investor has sufficient knowledge and experience as to be reasonably capable of evaluating the risks of penny stock transactions; (iii) provide the investor with a written statement setting forth the basis on which the broker-dealer made the determination in (ii) above; and (iv) receive a signed and dated copy of such statement from the investor, confirming that it accurately reflects the investor’s financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives. Compliance with these requirements may make it more difficult and time consuming for holders of our common stock to resell their shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them in the market or otherwise. Various restrictions in our charter documents and Delaware law could prevent or delay a change in control of us that is not supported by our board of directors. We are subject to a number of provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law that may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or change of control that a stockholder may consider favorable. These anti-takeover provisions include: ·advance notice procedures for nominations of candidates for election as directors and for stockholder proposals to be considered at stockholders’ meetings; and ·the Delaware anti-takeover statute contained in Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a merger, consolidation, asset sale or other similar business combination between us and any stockholder of 15% or more of our voting stock for a period of three years after the stockholder acquires 15% or more of our voting stock, unless (1) the transaction is approved by our board of directors before the stockholder acquires 15% or more of our voting stock, (2) upon completing the transaction the stockholder owns at least 85% of our voting stock outstanding at the commencement of the transaction, or (3) the transaction is approved by our board of directors and the holders of 66 2/3% of our voting stock, excluding shares of our voting stock owned by the stockholder. We have never paid dividends on our common stock and we do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have not paid any dividends on our common stock and do not expect to do so in the foreseeable future. In addition, the terms of any financing arrangements that we may enter into may restrict our ability to pay any dividends. A significant number of shares of our common stock are subject to options, warrants and conversion rights, and we expect to sell additional shares of our common stock in the future. The issuance of these shares – which may occur on a cashless basis – will dilute the interests of other security holders and may depress the price of our common stock. At July 14, 2014, there were outstanding warrants to purchase up to approximately 21.5 million shares of common stock, with approximately 13.0 million of such warrants having an exercise price that is lower than the closing price of our common stock on July 14, 2014 ($0.56). If any of these warrants are exercised on a cashless basis, we will not receive any cash as a result of such exercises. At July 14, 2014, there were also outstanding 1,200 shares of Series C Convertible Preferred Stock, which shares are convertible into 8 million shares of common stock at an assumed conversion price of $0.75 per share of common stock. In addition, we may issue a significant number of additional shares of common stock (and securities convertible into or exercisable for common stock) from time to time to finance our operations, to fund potential acquisitions, or in connection with additional stock options or restricted stock granted to our employees, officers, directors and consultants. The issuance of common stock (or securities convertible into or exercisable for common stock), and the exercise or conversion of securities exercisable for or convertible into common stock, will have a dilutive impact on other stockholders and could have a material negative effect on the market price of our common stock. 30 Table of Contents There are outstanding a significant number of shares available for future sales under Rule 144. A significant number of shares of our common stock, including shares of common stock that have been issued to our former landlord and certain of our vendors to settle outstanding obligations, and shares of our common stock that may be issuable upon the cashless exercise of outstanding “in-the-money” warrants, may be deemed “restricted shares” and, in the future, may be sold in compliance with Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act. Any sales of such shares of our common stock under Rule 144 could have a depressive effect on the market price of our common stock. In general, under Rule 144, a person (or persons whose shares are aggregated) who is not deemed to have been an affiliate of ours at any time during the three months preceding a sale, and who has beneficially owned restricted securities within the meaning of Rule 144 for at least six months (including any period of consecutive ownership of preceding non-affiliated holders) would be entitled to sell those shares, subject only to the availability of current public information about us. A non-affiliated person who has beneficially owned restricted securities within the meaning of Rule 144 for at least one year would be entitled to sell those shares without regard to the provisions of Rule 144. A person who is deemed to be an affiliate of ours and who has beneficially owned restricted securities within the meaning of Rule 144 for at least six months would be entitled to sell within any three-month period a number of shares that does not exceed the greater of one percent of the then outstanding shares of our common stock or the average weekly trading volume of our common stock during the four calendar weeks preceding such sale. Such sales are also subject to certain manner of sale provisions, notice requirements and the availability of current public information about us. Our Board of Directors has the ability to issue “blank check” Preferred Stock. Our Certificate of Incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 100,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock, with such designation rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by our Board of Directors. At July 14, 2014, 90,000 shares had been designated as Series A Junior participating preferred stock and 1,000 shares had been designated as Series B Preferred Stock, none of which are issued and outstanding. Also at July 14, 2014, 1,200 shares had been designated as Series C Convertible Preferred Stock, all of which are issued and outstanding. Our Board is empowered, without shareholder approval, to issue shares of preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights which could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of our common stock. In the event of such issuances, the preferred stock could be utilized, under certain circumstances, as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of our company. Although we have no present intention to issue any additional shares of our preferred stock, there can be no assurance that we will not do so in the future. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 