Item 1A. Risk Factors As a competitor in the banking and financial services industries, the Corporation and its business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in the Corporation’s other filings with the SEC, before making any investment decision with respect to the Corporation’s securities. In particular, you should consider the discussion contained in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which contains Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The risks and uncertainties described below may not be the only ones the Corporation faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known by the Corporation or that the Corporation currently deems immaterial may also affect the Corporation’s business. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occur or develop, the Corporation’s business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects could change. Under those circumstances, the trading prices of the Corporation’s securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Economic trends have adversely affected the Corporation’s industry and business and may continue to do so. Difficult economic conditions, particularly in 2009, 2010 and into 2011, led to dramatic declines in the housing market that resulted in decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage and construction loans and resulted in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many loans have declined and may continue to decline. These general economic trends, the reduced availability of commercial credit and relatively high rates of unemployment have all negatively impacted the credit performance of commercial and consumer credit and resulted in additional write-downs. Concerns over the stability of the financial markets and the economy resulted in decreased lending by financial institutions to their customers and to each other. This market turmoil and tightening of credit has led to increased commercial and consumer deficiencies, lack of customer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction in general business activity. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and the lack of confidence in the financial markets have adversely affected the Corporation’s business, financial condition, results of operations and share price and may continue to do so. Also, the Corporation’s ability to assess the creditworthiness of customers and to estimate the losses inherent in its credit exposure is made more complex by these difficult market and economic conditions. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions remains slow to recover and local governments and many companies continue to be in difficulty due to the lack of consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. Any worsening of current conditions or slowing of any economic recovery would have an adverse effect on the Corporation, its customers and the other financial institutions in its market. As a result, the Corporation may experience increases in foreclosures, delinquencies and customer bankruptcies. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect the Corporation’s earnings and financial condition. The Corporation’s earnings and cash flows depend substantially upon its net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earnings assets, such as loans and investment securities, and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Corporation’s control, including general economic conditions, competition and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the policies of the Federal Reserve Board. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest the Corporation receives on loans and investment securities and the amount of interest it pays on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect: (1) the Corporation’s ability to originate loans and obtain deposits; (2) the fair value of the Corporation’s financial assets and liabilities, 7 Table of Contents including its securities portfolio; and (3) the average duration of the Corporation’s interest-earning assets. This also includes the risk that interest-earning assets may be more responsive to changes in interest rates than interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa (repricing risk), the risk that the individual interest rates or rates indices underlying various interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities may not change in the same degree over a given time period (basis risk), and the risk of changing interest rate relationships across the spectrum of interest-earning asset and interest-bearing liability maturities (yield curve risk), including a prolonged flat or inverted yield curve environment. Any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse affect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation’s allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual future losses. The Corporation maintains an allowance for loan losses to cover probable and incurred loan losses. Every loan the Corporation makes carries a certain risk of non-repayment, and the Corporation makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of its loan portfolio including the creditworthiness of its borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. Through a periodic review and consideration of the loan portfolio, Management determines the amount of the allowance for loan losses by considering general market conditions, credit quality of the loan portfolio, the collateral supporting the loans and performance of customers relative to their financial obligations with the Corporation. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, which may be beyond the Corporation’s control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. The Corporation cannot fully predict the amount or timing of losses or whether the loss allowance will be adequate in the future. If the Corporation’s assumptions prove to be incorrect, its allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in its loan portfolio, resulting in additions to the allowance. Excessive loan losses and significant additions to the Corporation’s allowance for loan losses could have a material adverse impact on its financial condition and results of operations. Changes in economic and political conditions could adversely affect the Corporation’s earnings. The Corporation’s success depends, to a certain extent, upon economic and political conditions, local and national, as well as governmental monetary policies. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in interest rates, money supply and other factors beyond the Corporation’s control may adversely affect its asset quality, deposit levels and loan demand and, therefore, its earnings. Because the Corporation has a significant amount of real estate loans, additional decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral and the Corporation’s ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. Adverse changes in the economy may also have a negative effect on the ability of the Corporation’s borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on the Corporation’s earnings. If during a period of reduced real estate values the Corporation is required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt or to increase its allowance for loan losses, it could materially reduce the Corporation’s profitability and adversely affect its financial condition. The substantial majority of the Corporation’s loans are to individuals and businesses in Ohio. Consequently, further significant declines in the economy in Ohio could have a materially adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. It is uncertain when the negative credit trends in the Corporation’s markets will reverse and, therefore, future earnings are susceptible to further declining credit conditions in the markets in which the Corporation operates. Certain industries, including the financial services industry, are disproportionately affected by certain economic indicators such as unemployment and real estate asset values. Should the improvement of these economic indicators lag the improvement of the overall economy, the Corporation could be adversely affected. Should the stabilization of the U.S. economy lead to a general economic recovery, the improvement of certain economic indicators, such as unemployment and real estate asset values and rents, may nevertheless continue to lag behind the overall economy. These economic indicators typically affect certain industries, such as 8 Table of Contents real estate and financial services, more significantly. Furthermore, financial services companies with a substantial lending business are dependent upon the ability of their borrowers to make debt service payments on loans. Should unemployment or real estate asset values fail to recover for an extended period of time, the Corporation’s results of operations could be negatively affected. Strong competition may reduce the Corporation’s ability to generate loans and deposits in its market. The Corporation competes in a consolidating industry. Increasingly, the Corporation’s competition is large regional companies which have the capital resources to substantially impact such things as loan and deposit pricing, delivery channels and products. This may allow those companies to offer what may be perceived in the market as better products and better convenience relative to smaller competitors like the Corporation, which could impact the Corporation’s ability to grow its assets and earnings. The Corporation’s earnings and reputation may be adversely affected if credit risk is not properly managed. Originating and underwriting loans is critical to the success of the Corporation. This activity exposes the Corporation to credit risk, which is the risk of losing principal and interest income because the borrower cannot repay the loan in full. The Corporation depends on collateral in underwriting loans, and the value of this collateral is impacted by interest rates and economic conditions. The Corporation’s earnings may be adversely affected if management does not understand and properly manage loan concentrations. The Corporation’s commercial loan portfolio is concentrated in commercial real estate. This includes significant commercial and residential development customers. This means that the Corporation’s credit risk profile is dependent upon, not only the general economic conditions in the market, but also the health of the local real estate market. Certain of these loans are not fully amortized over the loan period, but have a balloon payment due at maturity. The borrower’s ability to make a balloon payment typically will depend on being able to refinance the loan or to sell the underlying collateral. This factor, combined with others, including the Corporation’s geographic concentration, can lead to unexpected credit deterioration and higher provisions for loan losses. The Corporation is subject to liquidity risk. Market conditions or other events could negatively affect the level or cost of funding, affecting the Corporation’s ongoing ability to accommodate liability maturities and deposit withdrawals, meet contractual obligations, and fund asset growth and new business transactions at a reasonable cost, in a timely manner and without adverse consequences. Although management has implemented strategies to maintain sufficient sources of funding to accommodate planned as well as unanticipated changes in assets and liabilities under both normal and adverse conditions, any substantial, unexpected and/or prolonged change in the level or cost of liquidity could adversely affect the Corporation’s business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and international accords, financial institutions will become subject to new and increased capital and liquidity requirements. While it is not yet clear what form these requirements will take or how they will apply to the Corporation, it is possible that the Corporation could be required to increase its capital levels above the levels in its current financial plans. These new requirements could have a negative impact on the Corporation’s ability to lend, grow deposit balances or make acquisitions and on its ability to make capital distributions in the form of dividends or share repurchases. Higher capital levels could also lower the Corporation’s return on equity. Legislative or regulatory changes or actions, or significant litigation, could adversely impact the Corporation or the businesses in which it is engaged. The financial services industry is extensively regulated. The Corporation is subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision and legislation that govern almost all aspects of its operations. Laws and 9 Table of Contents regulations may change from time to time and are primarily intended for the protection of consumers, depositors and the deposit insurance funds, and not to benefit the Corporation’s shareholders. The impact of any changes to laws and regulations or other actions by regulatory agencies may negatively impact the Corporation or its ability to increase the value of its business. The US government has undertaken major reform of the financial services industry, including new efforts to protect consumers and investors from financial abuse. The Corporation expects to face further increased regulation of its industry as a result of current and future initiatives intended to provide economic stimulus, financial market stability and enhanced regulation of financial services companies and to enhance the liquidity and solvency of financial institutions and markets. The Corporation also expects in many cases more aggressive enforcement of regulations on both the federal and state levels. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution, the classification of assets by the institution and the adequacy of an institution’s allowance for loan losses. Additionally, actions by regulatory agencies or significant litigation against the Corporation could require it to devote significant time and resources to defending its business and may lead to penalties that materially affect the Corporation and its shareholders. The Dodd-Frank Act may adversely affect the Corporation’s business, financial conditions and results of operations. The Dodd-Frank Act, which became law in July 2010, imposes new restrictions and an expanded framework of regulatory oversight for financial institutions, including depository institutions. Because the Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of regulations with significant discretion, the effects of the Act on the Corporation’s business will depend largely on the implementation of the Act by those agencies, and many of the details of the new law and the effects they will have on the Corporation may not be known for months or even years. Many of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act apply directly only to institutions much larger than the Corporation, and some will affect only institutions that engage in activities in which the Corporation does not engage. Among the changes to occur pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act that can be expected to have an effect on the Corporation are the following: • The OTS has been merged into the OCC and the authority of the other remaining bank regulatory agencies restructured; • A new independent Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has been established within the Federal Reserve Board, empowered to exercise broad regulatory, supervisory and enforcement authority with respect to both new and existing consumer financial protection laws; • New trust preferred securities will no longer count toward Tier 1 capital; • The prohibition on the payment of interest on demand deposits has been repealed, effective July 21, 2011; • The standard maximum amount of deposit insurance per customer is permanently increased to $250,000 and non-interest bearing transaction accounts will have unlimited deposit insurance through January 1, 2013; • The deposit insurance assessment base calculation has been expanded to equal a depository institution’s total assets minus the sum of its average tangible equity during the assessment period; • New corporate governance requirements applicable generally to all public companies in all industries have required or will require new compensation practices, including, but not limited to, requiring companies to “claw back” incentive compensation under certain circumstances, to provide shareholders the opportunity to cast a non-binding vote on executive compensation, to consider the independence of compensation advisors and new executive compensation disclosure requirements; • establish new rules and restrictions regarding the origination of mortgages; and 10 Table of Contents • permit the Federal Reserve to prescribe regulations regarding interchange transaction fees, and limit them to an amount reasonable and proportional to the cost incurred by the issuer for the transaction in question. Many provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will not be implemented immediately and will require interpretation and rule making by federal regulators. The Corporation is closely monitoring all relevant sections of the Dodd-Frank Act to ensure continued compliance with laws and regulations. While the ultimate effect of the Dodd-Frank Act on the Corporation cannot be determined yet, the law is likely to result in increased compliance costs and fees paid to regulators, along with possible restrictions on the Corporation’s operations. The Corporation is subject to additional uncertainties, and potential additional regulatory or compliance burdens, as a result of the Corporation’s participation in the CPP. The Corporation accepted an investment by the U.S. Treasury under the CPP. The Stock Purchase Agreement the Corporation entered into with the U.S. Treasury provides that the U.S. Treasury may unilaterally amend the agreement to the extent required to comply with any changes after the execution in applicable federal statutes. As a result of this provision, the U.S. Treasury and the Congress may impose additional requirements or restrictions on the Corporation and the Bank in respect of reporting, compliance, corporate governance, executive or employee compensation, dividend payments, stock repurchases, lending or other business practices, capital requirements or other matters. The Corporation may be required to expend additional resources in order to comply with these requirements. Such additional requirements could impair the Corporation’s ability to compete with institutions that are not subject to the restrictions because they did not accept an investment from the U.S. Treasury. To the extent that additional restrictions or limitations on employee compensation are imposed, such as those contained in ARRA and the regulations issued thereunder in June 2009, the Corporation may be less competitive in attracting and retaining successful incentive compensation based lenders and customer relations personnel, or senior executive officers. Additionally, the ability of Congress to utilize the amendment provisions to effect political or public relations goals could result in the Corporation being subjected to additional burdens as a result of public perceptions of issues relating to the largest banks, and which are not applicable to community oriented institutions such as the Corporation. The Corporation may be disadvantaged as a result of these uncertainties. The Corporation may be adversely impacted by weakness in the local economies it serves. The Corporation’s business activities are geographically concentrated in Northeast Ohio and, in particular, Lorain County, Ohio, where commercial activity has deteriorated at a greater rate than in other parts of Ohio and in the national economy. This has led to and may lead to further unexpected deterioration in loan quality, slower asset and deposit growth, which may adversely affect the Corporation’s operating results. Future FDIC premiums could be substantially higher and would have an unfavorable effect on earnings. Higher levels of bank failures over the last few years have dramatically increased resolution costs of the FDIC and depleted the deposit insurance fund. In addition, the FDIC instituted two temporary programs to further insure customer deposits at FDIC insured banks: the FDIC now insures deposit accounts up to $250,000 per customer (up from $100,000) and noninterest-bearing transactional accounts are currently fully insured (unlimited coverage). These programs have placed additional stress on the deposit insurance fund. In order to maintain a strong funding position and restore reserve ratios of the deposit insurance fund, the FDIC has increased assessment rates of insured institutions. On November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted a rule that required banks to prepay three year’s worth of estimated deposit insurance premiums by December 31, 2009. The Dodd-Frank Act also imposes additional assessments and costs with respect to deposits, requiring the FDIC to impose deposit insurance assessments based on total assets rather than total deposits, as well as making permanent the increase of deposit insurance to $250,000 and providing for full insurance of non-interest bearing transaction accounts until January 1, 2013. These announced increases, legislative and regulatory changes and any future increases or required prepayments of FDIC insurance premiums may adversely impact the Corporation’s 11 Table of Contents earnings and financial condition. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures, or the cost of resolving prior failures exceeds expectations, the Corporation may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased levels. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect the Corporation. The Corporation’s ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. The Corporation has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and it routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial industry. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by the Corporation or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose the Corporation to credit risk in the event of default of the Corporation’s counterparty or client. In addition, the Corporation’s credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by it cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due the Corporation. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect the Corporation’s results of operations. A failure of the Corporation’s operating systems or infrastructure, or those of its third-party vendors, could disrupt its business. The Corporation’s business is dependent on its ability to process and monitor large numbers of daily transactions in compliance with legal and regulatory standards and the Corporation’s product specifications, which it changes to reflect its business needs. As processing demands change and the Corporation’s loan portfolios grow in both volume and differing terms and conditions, developing and maintaining the Corporation’s operating systems and infrastructure becomes increasingly challenging and there is no assurance that the Corporation can adequately or efficiently develop and maintain such systems. The Corporation’s loan originations and conversions and the servicing, financial, accounting, data processing or other operating systems and facilities that support them may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are beyond the Corporation’s control, adversely affecting its ability to process these transactions. Any such failure could adversely affect the Corporation’s ability to service its customers, result in financial loss or liability to its customers, disrupt its business, result in regulatory action or cause reputational damage. Despite the plans and facilities the Corporation has in place, its ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports its businesses. This may include a disruption involving electrical, communications, internet, transportation or other services used by the Corporation or third parties with which it conducts business. Notwithstanding the Corporation’s efforts to maintain business continuity, a disruptive event impacting its processing locations could adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation’s operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of personal, confidential and other information in its computer systems and networks. Although the Corporation takes protective measures, its computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, malicious attacks and other events that could have a security impact beyond the Corporation’s control. If one or more of such events occur, personal, confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, the Corporation’s computer systems and networks, could be jeopardized or otherwise interruptions or malfunctions in its operations could result in significant losses or reputational damage. The Corporation also routinely transmits and receives personal, confidential and proprietary information, some through third parties. The Corporation has put in place secure transmission capability, and works to ensure third parties follow similar procedures. An interception, misuse or mishandling of personal, confidential or proprietary information being sent to or received from a customer or third party could result in legal liability, regulatory action and reputational harm. In the event personal, confidential or other information is jeopardized, intercepted, misused or mishandled, the Corporation may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify its protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and it may be subject to fines, penalties, litigation costs and settlements and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by it. If one or more of such events occur, the Corporation’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be significantly and adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents The Corporation is subject to risk from the failure of third party vendors. The Corporation relies on other companies to provide components of the Corporation’s business infrastructure. Third party vendors provide certain components of the Corporation’s business infrastructure, such the Bank’s processing and electronic banking systems, item processing and Internet connections. While the Corporation has selected these third party vendors carefully, it does not control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties not providing the Corporation their services for any reason or their performing their services poorly, could adversely affect the Corporation’s ability to deliver products and services to the Corporation’s operations directly through interference with communications, including the interruption or loss of the Corporation’s websites, which could adversely affect the Corporation’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in accounting standards could materially impact the Corporation’s financial statements. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) may change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of the Corporation’s financial statements. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how the Corporation records and reports it financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation may not be able to attract and retain skilled people. The Corporation’s success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most activities in which the Corporation is engaged can be intense, and the Corporation may not be able to retain or hire the people it wants and/or needs. In order to attract and retain qualified employees, the Corporation must compensate its employees at market levels. If the Corporation is unable to continue to attract and retain qualified employees, or do so at rates necessary to maintain its competitive position, the Corporation’s performance, including its competitive position, could suffer, and, in turn, adversely affect the Corporation’s business, financial condition and results of operations. TARP and ARRA impose certain executive compensation and corporate governance requirements that may adversely affect the Corporation, including the Corporation’s ability to recruit and retain qualified employees. The purchase agreement the Corporation entered into in connection with the Corporation’s participation in the CPP required the Corporation to adopt the U.S. Treasury’s standards for executive compensation and corporate governance while the U.S. Treasury holds the equity issued by the Corporation pursuant to the CPP. These standards generally apply to the Corporation’s Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and the next three most highly compensated senior executive officers. The standards include: • ensuring that incentive compensation for senior executives does not encourage unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten the value of financial institutions; • required clawbacks of any bonus or incentive compensation paid to a senior executive based on statements of earnings, gains or other criteria that are later proven to be materially inaccurate; • prohibitions on making golden parachute payments to senior executives; and • an agreement not to deduct for tax purposes executive compensation in excess of $500,000 for each senior executive. ARRA imposed further limitations on compensation while the U.S. Treasury holds equity issued by the Corporation pursuant to TARP: • a prohibition on making any golden parachute payment to a senior executive officer or any of the Corporation’s next five most highly compensated employees; • a prohibition on any compensation plan that would encourage manipulation of the Corporation’s reported earnings to enhance the compensation of any of the Corporation’s employees; and 13 Table of Contents • a prohibition on the payment or accrual of any bonus, retention award or incentive compensation to the Corporation’s five highest paid executives except for long-term restricted stock with a value not greater than one-third of the total amount of annual compensation of the employee receiving the stock. The U.S. Treasury released an interim final rule on TARP standards for compensation and corporate governance on June 10, 2009, which implemented and further expanded the limitations and restrictions imposed on executive compensation and corporate governance by the CPP and ARRA. The rules clarify prohibitions on bonus payments, provide guidance on the use of restricted stock units, expand restrictions on golden parachute payments, mandate enforcement of clawback provisions unless unreasonable to do so, outline the steps compensation committees must take when evaluating risks posed by compensations arrangements, and require the adoption and disclosure of a luxury expenditure policy, among other things. New requirements under the rules include enhanced disclosure of perquisites and the use of compensation consultants, and prohibitions on tax gross-up payments. These provisions and any future rules issued by the U.S. Treasury could adversely affect the Corporation’s ability to attract and retain management capable and motivated sufficiently to manage and operate the Corporation’s business through difficult economic and market conditions. If the Corporation is unable to attract and retain qualified employees to manage and operate the Corporation’s business, it could negatively affect the Corporation’s business, financial conditions and results of operations. The Corporation’s issuance of securities to the U.S. Treasury may limit the Corporation’s ability to return capital to its shareholders and is dilutive to the Corporation’s common shares. If the Corporation is unable to redeem such preferred shares, the dividend rate increases substantially after five years. In connection with the Corporation’s sale of $25.2 million of its Series B Preferred Stock to the U.S. Treasury in conjunction with the CPP, the Corporation also issued a warrant to purchase 561,343 of its common shares at an exercise price of $6.74. The number of shares was determined based upon the requirements of the CPP, and was calculated based on the average market price of the Corporation’s common shares for the 20 trading days preceding approval of the Corporation’s issuance (which was also the basis for the exercise price of $6.74). Furthermore, as long as the Series B Preferred Stock issued to the U.S. Treasury is outstanding, dividend payments and repurchases or redemptions relating to certain equity securities, including the Corporation’s common shares, are prohibited to the extent there are then any accrued and unpaid dividends on such preferred stock, subject to certain limited exceptions. These restrictions combined with the dilutive impact of the warrant may have an adverse effect on the market price of the Corporation’s Common Shares, and, as a result, they could adversely affect the Corporation’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Unless the Corporation is able to redeem the Series B Preferred Stock during the first five years, the dividend payments on this capital will increase substantially at that point, from 5% ($1.26 million annually) to 9% ($2.27 million annually). Depending on market conditions at the time, this increase in dividends could significantly impact the Corporation’s liquidity, and as a result, adversely affect the Corporation’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation’s ability to pay dividends is subject to limitations. Holders of the Corporation’s common shares are only entitled to receive such dividends as the Board of Directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Furthermore, the Corporation’s common shareholders are subject to the prior dividend rights of holders of its preferred stock. In September 2009, the Corporation reduced its quarterly dividend on its common shares to $0.01 per share and does not expect to increase the quarterly dividend above $0.01 until after such time as the Corporation’s Series B Preferred Stock has been redeemed in full. The Corporation could determine to eliminate its common shares dividend altogether. Furthermore, as long as the Series B Preferred Stock is outstanding, dividend payments and repurchases or redemptions relating to certain equity securities, including the Corporation’s common shares, are prohibited to the extent that there are then any accrued and unpaid dividends on such preferred stock, subject to certain limited exceptions. This could adversely affect the market price of the 14 Table of Contents Corporation’s common shares. Also, the Corporation is a bank holding company and its ability to declare and pay dividends is dependent on certain federal regulatory considerations, including the guidelines of the Federal Reserve Board regarding capital adequacy and dividends. In addition, the terms of the Corporation’s outstanding trust preferred securities prohibit it from declaring or paying any dividends or distributions on its capital stock, including its common shares, if an event of default has occurred and is continuing under the applicable indenture or if the Corporation has given notice of its election to defer interest payments but the related deferral period has not yet commenced or a deferral period is continuing. Additional capital may not be available to the Corporation if and when it is needed. The Corporation and the Bank are subject to capital-based regulatory requirements. The ability of the Corporation and the Bank to meet capital requirements is dependent upon a number of factors, including results of operations, level of nonperforming assets, interest rate risk, future economic conditions, future changes in regulatory and accounting policies and capital requirements, and the ability to raise additional capital if and when it is needed. Certain circumstances, such as a reduction of capital due to losses from nonperforming assets or otherwise, could cause the Corporation or the Bank to become unable to meet applicable regulatory capital requirements, which may materially and adversely affect the Corporation’s financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. In such an event, additional capital may be required to meet requirements. The Corporation’s ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time which are outside its control, and on the Corporation’s financial performance. Accordingly, additional capital, if needed, may not be available on terms acceptable to the Corporation. Furthermore, if any such additional capital is raised through the offering of equity securities, it may dilute the holdings of the Corporation’s existing shareholders or reduce the market price of the Corporation’s common shares, or both. The Corporation’s risk management framework may not effectively identify or mitigate its risks. The Corporation’s risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and appropriately balance risk and return. The Corporation has established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor and report the types of risk to which it is subject, including credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk, operational risk, legal and compliance risk, and strategic risk. The Corporation seeks to monitor and control its risk exposure through a framework of policies, procedures and reporting requirements. Management of the Corporation’s risks in some cases depends upon the use of analytical and/or forecasting models. If the models that the Corporation uses to mitigate these risks are inadequate, the Corporation may incur increased losses. In addition, there may be risks that exist, or that develop in the future, that the Corporation has not appropriately anticipated, identified or mitigated. If the Corporation’s risk management framework does not effectively identify or mitigate its risks, it could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected. If the Corporation is required to write down goodwill recorded in connection with its acquisitions, the Corporation’s profitability would be negatively impacted. Applicable accounting standards require the Corporation to use the purchase method of accounting for all business combinations. Under purchase accounting, if the purchase price of an acquired company exceeds the fair value of the acquired company’s net assets, the excess is carried on the acquirer’s balance sheet as goodwill. At December 31, 2011, the Corporation had approximately $21.6 million of goodwill on its balance sheet. Goodwill must be evaluated for impairment at least annually. Write downs of the amount of any impairment, if necessary, are to be charged to the results of operations in the period in which the impairment occurs. There can be no assurance that future evaluations of goodwill will not result in findings of impairment and related write downs, which would have an adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 15 Table of Contents 