ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Relating to being an Early State Drug Development Company and Managing Growth We have no history of profitability and there is a potential for fluctuation in operating results. We have experienced significant operating losses since inception and have an accumulated deficit of $290.8 million at December 31, 2010. In the third quarter of 2008 we suspended all research and clinical development of our intranasal programs and incurred a restructuring charge to exit a facility which was used primarily for our intranasal activities. As of September 30, 2008, our accumulated deficit, which was primarily related to clinical development of our intranasal programs, was approximately $241.8 million. We currently have no revenues from product sales and will not have any such revenues unless and until a marketable product is successfully developed, receives regulatory approvals, and is successfully manufactured and distributed to the market. We expect to continue to experience losses for the foreseeable future. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Forward-Looking Statements”. We are developing products based on RNA interference technology. The process of developing such products requires significant research and development efforts, including basic research, pre-clinical and clinical development, and regulatory approval. These activities, together with our sales, marketing, general and administrative expenses, have resulted in operating losses in the past, and there can be no assurance that we can achieve profitability in the future. Our ability to achieve profitability depends on our ability, alone or with our collaborators, to develop our drug candidates, conduct pre-clinical development and clinical trials, obtain necessary regulatory approvals, and manufacture, distribute, market and sell our drug products. We cannot assure you that we will be successful at any of these activities or predict if or when we will ever become profitable. We do not generate operating income and will require additional financing in the future. If additional capital is not available, we may have to curtail or cease operations. Our business currently does not generate the cash that is necessary to finance our operations. We incurred net losses of approximately $8.0 million in 2009 and $27.8 million in 2010. Subject to the success of our research and development programs and potential licensing or partnering transactions, we will need to raise significant additional capital to: • fund research and development activities relating to our RNAi drug discovery platform and the development of our product candidates, including clinical and pre-clinical trials; • obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates; • protect our intellectual property; • attract and retain highly-qualified scientists; • respond effectively to competitive pressures; and • acquire complementary businesses or technologies. Our future capital needs depend on many factors, including: • the scope, duration and expenditures associated with our research and development; • continued scientific progress in these programs; • the outcome of potential partnering or licensing transactions, if any; • competing technological developments; • our proprietary patent position, if any, in our products; and • the regulatory approval process for our products. 18 Table of Contents We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents should be sufficient to fund our operations into the second quarter of 2011. We may seek to raise necessary funds through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or additional strategic alliances and licensing arrangements. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. General market conditions may make it very difficult for us to seek financing from the capital markets, and the terms of any financing may adversely affect the holdings or the rights of our stockholders. For example, if we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, further dilution to our stockholders will result. In addition, as a condition to providing additional funds to us, future investors may demand, and may be granted, rights superior to those of existing stockholders. Debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants that could limit our flexibility in conducting future business activities and, in the event of insolvency, would be paid before holders of equity securities received any distribution of corporate assets. We may be required to relinquish rights to our technologies or drug candidates, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us, in order to raise additional funds through alliance, joint venture or licensing arrangements. If adequate funds are not available, we may have to delay, reduce or eliminate one or more of our research or development programs or reduce overall overhead expenses. These actions would likely reduce the market price of our common stock. Our independent registered public accounting firm has expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm, in its audit opinion issued in connection with our consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 and our consolidated statements of operations, stockholders’ equity (deficit) and cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, has expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern given our net losses, accumulated deficit and negative cash flows. The accompanying consolidated financial statements were prepared on the basis of a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities and commitments in the normal course of business, and accordingly do not contain any adjustments which may result due to the outcome of this uncertainty. If we lose our key personnel, or if we are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, then we may be unable to successfully develop our business. If we are unable to retain one or more of our executive officers, including J. Michael French, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Peter S. Garcia, our Chief Financial Officer and Secretary, Dr. Barry Polisky, our Chief Scientific Officer, or any of our other key managers or key technical personnel, our business could be seriously harmed. We have entered into employment agreements with Messrs. French and Garcia and with Dr. Polisky. Whether or not a member of management has executed an employment agreement, there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain our key managers or key technical personnel or replace any of them if we lose their services for any reason. Although we make a significant effort and allocate substantial resources to recruit candidates, competition for competent managers and technical personnel is intense. Failure to attract and retain our key personnel may compromise our ability to negotiate and enter into additional collaborative arrangements, delay our ongoing discovery research efforts, delay pre-clinical or clinical testing of our product candidates, delay the regulatory approval process or prevent us from successfully commercializing our product candidates. In addition, if we have to replace any of these individuals, we may not be able to replace knowledge that they have about our operations. We may encounter difficulties managing our growth, which could adversely affect our business. We currently have approximately 45 full-time-equivalent employees, and we expect that as we seek to increase the number of product candidates we are developing we will need to expand our operations in the future. If our business grows, it may place a strain on us, our management and our resources. Our ability to effectively manage our operations, relationships, growth and various projects requires us to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, and our reporting systems and procedures, and to attract and 19 Table of Contents retain sufficient numbers of talented employees. We may not be able to successfully implement these tasks on a larger scale and, accordingly, we may not achieve our research, development and commercialization goals. If we do not improve our operational, financial and management information systems, or fail to effectively monitor or manage our growth, our business could suffer significantly. If we make strategic acquisitions, we will incur a variety of costs and might never realize the anticipated benefits. Despite our acquisition of Cequent Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in July 2010, we have limited experience in independently identifying acquisition candidates and integrating the operations of acquisition candidates with our company. If appropriate opportunities become available, we might attempt to acquire approved products, additional drug candidates, technologies or businesses that we believe are a strategic fit with our business. If we pursue any transaction of that sort, the process of negotiating the acquisition and integrating an acquired product, drug candidate, technology or business might result in operating difficulties and expenditures and might require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business, whether or not any such transaction is ever consummated. Moreover, we might never realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, or impairment expenses related to goodwill, and impairment or amortization expenses related to other intangible assets, which could harm our financial condition. Failure of our internal control over financial reporting could harm our business and financial results. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Internal control over financial reporting includes maintaining records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect our transactions; providing reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary for preparation of the financial statements; providing reasonable assurance that receipts and expenditures of our assets are made in accordance with management authorization; and providing reasonable assurance that unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements would be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting is not intended to provide absolute assurance that a misstatement of our financial statements would be prevented or detected. Our growth and entry into new products, technologies and markets will place significant additional pressure on our system of internal control over financial reporting. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud. Our business and operations could suffer in the event of system failures. Despite the implementation of security measures, our internal computer systems and those of our contractors and consultants are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures. Such events could cause interruption of our operations. For example, the loss of pre-clinical trial data or data from completed or ongoing clinical trials for our product candidates could result in delays in our regulatory filings and development efforts and significantly increase our costs. To the extent that any disruption or security breach were to result in a loss of or damage to our data, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we could incur liability and the development of our product candidates could be delayed. 20 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Development and Regulatory Approval of our Drug Candidates RNAi-based drug development is unproven and may never lead to marketable products. Our future success depends on the successful development of products based on RNAi technology. Neither we nor any other company has received regulatory approval to market therapeutics utilizing siRNAs. The scientific discoveries that form the basis for our efforts to discover and develop new siRNA drugs are relatively new. The scientific evidence to support the feasibility of developing drugs based on these discoveries is both preliminary and limited. Skepticism as to the feasibility of developing RNAi therapeutics has been expressed in scientific literature. Relatively few product candidates based on RNAi technology have ever been tested in animals or humans, none of which have received regulatory approval. We currently have only limited data suggesting that we can introduce typical drug-like properties and characteristics into siRNAs, such as favorable distribution within the body or tissues or the ability to enter cells and exert their intended effects. In addition, RNA-based compounds may not demonstrate in patients the chemical and pharmacological properties ascribed to them in laboratory studies, and they may interact with human biological systems in unforeseen, ineffective or harmful ways. We may make significant expenditures trying to develop RNA-based technologies without success. As a result, we may never succeed in developing a marketable product. If we do not successfully develop and commercialize drugs based upon our RNA-based drug candidates, we may not become profitable and the value of our common stock will likely decline. Further, our focus solely on RNAi technology for developing drugs, as opposed to multiple, more proven technologies for drug development, increases the risks associated with the ownership of our common stock. If we are not successful in developing a product candidate using RNAi technology, we may be required to change the scope and direction of our product development activities. In that case, we may not be able to identify and implement successfully an alternative product development strategy. All of our programs, other than our program for CEQ508, are in pre-clinical studies or early stage research. If we are unable to develop and commercialize our product candidates, our business will be adversely affected. A key element of our strategy is to discover, develop and commercialize a portfolio of new products. We are seeking to do so through our internal research programs and intend to explore strategic collaborations for the development of new products. Whether or not any product candidates are ultimately identified, research programs to identify new disease targets and product candidates require substantial technical, financial and human resources. Our research programs may initially show promise in identifying potential product candidates, yet fail to yield a successful commercial product for many reasons, including the following: • competitors may develop alternatives that render our product candidates obsolete; • a product candidate may not have a sustainable intellectual property position in major markets; • a product candidate may, after additional studies, be shown to have harmful side effects or other characteristics that indicate it is unlikely to be effective; • a product candidate may not receive regulatory approval; • a product candidate may not be capable of production in commercial quantities at an acceptable cost, or at all; or • a product candidate may not be accepted by patients, the medical community or third-party payors. 21 Table of Contents Upon entering into clinical trials, clinical trials of our product candidates would be expensive and time-consuming, and the results of any of these trials would be uncertain. Our research and development programs are at an early stage. Before obtaining regulatory approval for the sale of our product candidates, we must conduct, at our own expense, extensive pre-clinical tests and clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy in humans of our product candidates. Pre-clinical and clinical testing in patients is a long, expensive and uncertain process, and the historical failure rate for product candidates is high. The length of time generally varies substantially according to the type of drug, complexity of clinical trial design, regulatory compliance requirements, intended use of the drug candidate and rate of patient enrollment for the clinical trials. A failure of one or more of our pre-clinical studies or clinical trials can occur at any stage of testing. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, the pre-clinical testing and the clinical trial process that could delay or prevent our ability to receive regulatory approval or potentially commercialize our product candidates, including: • regulators may not authorize us to commence a clinical trial or conduct a clinical trial at a prospective trial site; • our pre-clinical tests or clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or a regulator may require us, to conduct additional pre-clinical testing or clinical trials, or we may abandon projects that we previously expected to be promising; • enrollment in our clinical trials may be slower than we anticipate or participants may drop out of our clinical trials at a higher rate than we anticipate, resulting in significant delays; • our third party contractors may fail to comply with regulatory requirements or meet their contractual obligations to us in a timely manner; • our product candidates may have very different chemical and pharmacological properties in humans than in laboratory testing and may interact with human biological systems in unforeseen, ineffective or harmful ways; • we might have to suspend or terminate our clinical trials if the participants are being exposed to unacceptable health risks; • regulators, including the FDA, may require that we hold, suspend or terminate clinical research for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements; • the cost of our clinical trials may be greater than we anticipate; • the supply or quality of our drug candidates or other materials necessary to conduct our clinical trials may be insufficient or inadequate; and • effects of product candidates may not have the desired effects or may include undesirable side effects or the product candidates may have other unexpected characteristics. Further, even if the results of our pre-clinical studies or clinical trials are initially positive, it is possible that we will obtain different results in the later stages of drug development or that results seen in clinical trials will not continue with longer term treatment. Drugs in late stages of clinical development may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy traits despite having progressed through initial clinical testing. For example, positive results in early Phase 1 or Phase 2 clinical trials may not be repeated in larger Phase 2 or Phase 3 clinical trials. All of our potential drug candidates are prone to the risks of failure inherent in drug development. The clinical trials of any or all of our drugs or drug candidates could be unsuccessful, which would prevent us from commercializing these drugs. The FDA conducts its own independent analysis of some or all of the pre-clinical and clinical trial data submitted in a regulatory filing and often comes to different and potentially more negative conclusions than the analysis performed by the drug sponsor. Our failure to develop safe, commercially viable 22 Table of Contents drugs approved by the FDA would substantially impair our ability to generate revenues and sustain our operations and would materially harm our business and adversely affect our stock price. In addition, significant delays in pre-clinical studies and clinical trials will impede our ability to seek regulatory approvals, commercialize our drug candidates and generate revenue, as well as substantially increase our development costs. Even if we obtain regulatory approvals, our marketed drugs will be subject to ongoing regulatory review. If we fail to comply with continuing U.S. and foreign regulations, we could lose our approvals to market drugs and our business would be materially adversely affected. Following any initial FDA or foreign regulatory approval of any drugs we may develop, we will also be subject to continuing regulatory review, including the review of adverse drug experiences and clinical results that are reported after our drug products are made available to patients. This would include results from any post marketing tests or vigilance required as a condition of approval. The manufacturer and manufacturing facilities we use to make any of our drug candidates will also be subject to periodic review and inspection by regulatory authorities, including the FDA. The discovery of any new or previously unknown problems with the product, manufacturer or facility may result in restrictions on the drug or manufacturer or facility, including withdrawal of the drug from the market. Our product promotion, advertising and labeling also will be subject to regulatory requirements and continuing regulatory review. If we fail to comply with applicable continuing regulatory requirements, we may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approval, product recalls and seizures, operating restrictions and other adverse consequences. We are subject to extensive U.S. and foreign government regulation, including the requirement of approval before our products may be manufactured or marketed. We, our present and future collaboration partners, and the drug product candidates developed by us or in collaboration with partners are subject to extensive regulation by governmental authorities in the U.S. and other countries. Failure to comply with applicable requirements could result in, among other things, any of the following actions: warning letters, fines and other civil penalties, unanticipated expenditures, delays in approving or refusal to approve a product candidate, product recall or seizure, interruption of manufacturing or clinical trials, operating restrictions, injunctions and criminal prosecution. Our product candidates cannot be marketed in the U.S. without FDA approval or clearance, and they cannot be marketed in foreign countries without applicable regulatory approval. Neither the FDA nor any foreign regulatory authority has approved any of our product candidates. Our product candidates are in pre-clinical and early clinical development, and will have to be approved by the FDA or applicable foreign regulatory authorities before they can be marketed in the U.S. or abroad. Obtaining regulatory approval requires substantial time, effort, and financial resources, and may be subject to both expected and unforeseen delays, including, without limitation, citizen’s petitions or other filings with the FDA, and there can be no assurance that any approval will be granted on a timely basis, if at all, or that delays will be resolved favorably or in a timely manner. If our product candidates are not approved in a timely fashion, or are not approved at all, our business and financial condition may be adversely affected. We, our present and future collaboration partners or the FDA may suspend or terminate human clinical trials at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. In addition, both before and after regulatory approval, we, our collaboration partners and our product candidates are subject to numerous requirements by the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities covering, among other things, testing, manufacturing, quality control, labeling, advertising, promotion, distribution and export. These requirements may change and additional government regulations may be promulgated that could affect us, our collaboration partners or our product candidates. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the U.S. or abroad. There can be no assurance that we will not be required to incur significant costs to comply with such laws and regulations in the future or that such laws or regulations will not have a material adverse effect upon our business. 23 Table of Contents We use hazardous chemicals and biological materials in our business. Any disputes relating to improper use, handling, storage or disposal of these materials could be time-consuming and costly. Our research and development operations involve the use of hazardous and biological, potentially infectious, materials. We are subject to the risk of accidental contamination or discharge or any resultant injury from these materials. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and specific waste products. We could be subject to damages, fines or penalties in the event of an improper or unauthorized release of, or exposure of individuals to, these hazardous materials, and our liability could be substantial. The costs of complying with these current and future environmental laws and regulations may be significant, thereby impairing our business. We are also subject to numerous environmental, health and workplace safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures, exposure to blood-borne pathogens and the handling of biohazardous materials. We maintain workers’ compensation insurance to cover us for costs and expenses we may incur due to injuries to our employees resulting from the use of these materials. The limits of our workers’ compensation insurance are mandated by state law, and our workers’ compensation liability is capped at these state-mandated limits. We do not maintain insurance for environmental liability or toxic tort claims that may be asserted against us in connection with our storage or disposal of biological, hazardous or radioactive materials. Additional federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting our operations may be adopted in the future. We may incur substantial costs to comply with, and substantial fines or penalties if we violate, any of these laws or regulations. Failure to comply with foreign regulatory requirements governing human clinical trials and marketing approval for drugs could prevent us from selling our drug candidates in foreign markets, which may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement for marketing our drug candidates outside the U.S. vary greatly from country to country. We have limited experience in obtaining foreign regulatory approvals. The time required to obtain approvals outside the U.S. may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. We may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or by the FDA. Failure to comply with these regulatory requirements or obtain required approvals could impair our ability to develop foreign markets for our drug candidates and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to our Dependence on Third Parties We may become dependent on our collaborative arrangements with third parties for a substantial portion of our revenue, and our development and commercialization activities may be delayed or reduced if we fail to initiate, negotiate or maintain successful collaborative arrangements. We may become dependent on possible future collaborators to develop and commercialize many of our product candidates and to provide the regulatory compliance, sales, marketing and distribution capabilities required for the success of our business. If we fail to secure or maintain successful collaborative arrangements, our development and commercialization activities will be delayed, reduced or terminated, and our revenues could be materially and adversely impacted. Over the next several years, we may depend on these types of collaboration partnerships for a significant portion of our revenue. The expected future milestone payments and cost reimbursements from collaboration agreements could provide an important source of financing for our research and development programs, thereby facilitating the application of our technology to the development and commercialization of our products. These collaborative agreements might be terminated either by us or by our partners upon the satisfaction of certain 24 Table of Contents notice requirements. Our partners may not be precluded from independently pursuing competing products and drug delivery approaches or technologies. Even if our partners continue their contributions to our collaborative arrangements, of which there can be no assurance, they may nevertheless determine not to actively pursue the development or commercialization of any resulting products. Our partners may fail to perform their obligations under the collaborative arrangements or may be slow in performing their obligations. In addition, our partners may experience financial difficulties at any time that could prevent them from having available funds to contribute to these collaborations. If our collaboration partners fail to conduct their commercialization, regulatory compliance, sales and marketing or distribution activities successfully and in a timely manner, or if they terminate or materially modify their agreements with us, the development and commercialization of one or more product candidates could be delayed, curtailed or terminated because we may not have sufficient financial resources or capabilities to continue such development and commercialization on our own. For example, in February 2011, we entered into an exclusive research and license agreement with Debiopharm S.A. concerning the development and commercialization of our pre-clinical program in bladder cancer, pursuant to which we and Debiopharm will work together to advance to market an RNAi-based therapy for the treatment of non-muscle invasive bladder cancer. Under the agreement, Debiopharm will have full responsibility for the development and commercialization of any products arising from the partnership, and will fund all of our research and development costs for the bladder cancer program beginning in February 2011. Debiopharm also agreed to pay to us up to $25 million based on predefined research and development milestones as well as royalties on the sales of products resulting from the partnership. If Debiopharn terminates this agreement or fails to perform its obligations thereunder, we may not be able to advance our bladder cancer program as scheduled, or at all. If that were to occur, we may not receive any revenues from our bladder cancer program or our agreement with Debiopharm, including any milestone or royalty payments. An interruption in the supply of our raw and bulk materials needed for our product candidates could cause our product development to be slowed or stopped. We currently obtain supplies of critical raw and bulk materials used in our research and development efforts from several suppliers. However, we do not have long-term contracts with any of these suppliers. While our existing arrangements supply sufficient quantities of raw and bulk materials needed to accomplish the current preclinical and clinical development of our product candidates, there can be no assurance that we would have the capability to manufacture sufficient quantities of our product candidates to meet our needs if our suppliers are unable or unwilling to supply such materials. Any delay or disruption in the availability of raw or bulk materials could slow or stop research and development of the relevant product. We rely and anticipate that we will continue to rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials, and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily, including failing to meet established deadlines for the completion of such clinical trials. We are, and anticipate that we will continue to be, dependent on contract research organizations, third-party vendors and investigators for pre-clinical testing and clinical trials related to our drug discovery and development efforts. These parties are not our employees and we cannot control the amount or timing of resources that they devote to our programs. If they fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our drug development programs or if their performance is substandard, it will delay the development and commercialization of our product candidates. The parties with which we contract for execution of our clinical trials play a significant role in the conduct of the trials and the subsequent collection and analysis of data. Their failure to meet their obligations could adversely affect clinical development of our product candidates. Moreover, these parties also may have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which may compete with us. If they assist our competitors, it could harm our competitive position. If we were to lose our relationship with any one or more of these parties, we could experience a significant delay in both identifying another comparable provider and then contracting for its services. We may then be 25 Table of Contents unable to retain an alternative provider on reasonable terms, if at all. Even if we locate an alternative provider, is it likely that this provider may need additional time to respond to our needs and may not provide the same type or level of service as the original provider. In addition, any provider that we retain will be subject to Good Laboratory Practices, or cGLP, and similar foreign standards and we do not have control over compliance with these regulations by these providers. Consequently, if these practices and standards are not adhered to by these providers, the development and commercialization of our product candidates could be delayed. We have very limited experience in marketing, selling or distributing our products, and we may need to rely on marketing partners or contract sales companies. Even if we are able to develop our products and obtain necessary regulatory approvals, we have very limited experience or capabilities in marketing, selling or distributing our products. We currently have no sales, marketing and distribution infrastructure. Accordingly, we will be dependent on our ability to build this capability ourselves, which would require the investment of significant financial and management resources, or to find collaborative marketing partners or contract sales companies for commercial sale of our internally-developed products. Even if we find a potential marketing partner, of which there can be no assurance, we may not be able to negotiate a licensing contract on favorable terms to justify our investment or achieve adequate revenues. We have very limited manufacturing experience or resources and we must incur significant costs to develop this expertise or rely on third parties to manufacture our products. We have very limited manufacturing experience. Our internal manufacturing capabilities are limited to small-scale production of non-cGMP material for use in in vitro and in vivo experiments. Some of our product candidates utilize specialized formulations whose scale-up and manufacturing could be very difficult. We also have very limited experience in such scale-up and manufacturing, requiring us to depend on a limited number of third parties, who might not be able to deliver in a timely manner, or at all. In order to develop products, apply for regulatory approvals and commercialize our products, we will need to develop, contract for, or otherwise arrange for the necessary manufacturing capabilities. We may manufacture clinical trial materials ourselves or we may rely on others to manufacture the materials we will require for any clinical trials that we initiate. There are a limited number of manufacturers that supply synthetic siRNAs. We currently rely on several contract manufacturers for our supply of synthetic siRNAs. There are risks inherent in pharmaceutical manufacturing that could affect the ability of our contract manufacturers to meet our delivery time requirements or provide adequate amounts of material to meet our needs. Included in these risks are synthesis and purification failures and contamination during the manufacturing process, which could result in unusable product and cause delays in our development process, as well as additional expense to us. To fulfill our siRNA requirements, we may also need to secure alternative suppliers of synthetic siRNAs. In addition to the manufacture of the synthetic siRNAs, we may have additional manufacturing requirements related to the technology required to deliver the siRNA to the relevant cell or tissue type. In some cases, the delivery technology we utilize is highly specialized or proprietary, and for technical and legal reasons, we may have access to only one or a limited number of potential manufacturers for such delivery technology. Failure by these manufacturers to properly formulate our siRNAs for delivery could also result in unusable product and cause delays in our discovery and development process, as well as additional expense to us. The manufacturing process for any products that we may develop is subject to the FDA and foreign regulatory authority approval process and we will need to contract with manufacturers who can meet all applicable FDA and foreign regulatory authority requirements on an ongoing basis. In addition, if we receive the necessary regulatory approval for any product candidate, we also expect to rely on third parties, including our commercial collaborators, to produce materials required for commercial supply. We may experience difficulty in obtaining adequate manufacturing capacity for our needs. If we are unable to obtain or maintain contract manufacturing for these product candidates, or to do so on commercially reasonable terms, we may not be able to successfully develop and commercialize our products. 26 Table of Contents To the extent that we enter into manufacturing arrangements with third parties, we will depend on these third parties to perform their obligations in a timely manner and consistent with regulatory requirements, including those related to quality control and quality assurance. The failure of a third-party manufacturer to perform its obligations as expected could adversely affect our business in a number of ways, including: • we may not be able to initiate or continue pre-clinical and clinical trials of products that are under development; • we may be delayed in submitting regulatory applications, or receiving regulatory approvals, for our product candidates; • we may lose the cooperation of our collaborators; • our products could be the subject of inspections by regulatory authorities; • we may be required to cease distribution or recall some or all batches of our products; and • ultimately, we may not be able to meet commercial demands for our products. If a third-party manufacturer with whom we contract fails to perform its obligations, we may be forced to manufacture the materials ourselves, for which we may not have the capabilities or resources, or enter into an agreement with a different third-party manufacturer, which we may not be able to do on reasonable terms, if at all. In some cases, the technical skills required to manufacture our product may be unique to the original manufacturer and we may have difficulty transferring such skills to a back-up or alternate supplier, or we may be unable to transfer such skills at all. In addition, if we are required to change manufacturers for any reason, we will be required to verify that the new manufacturer maintains facilities and procedures that comply with quality standards and with all applicable regulations and guidelines. The delays associated with the verification of a new manufacturer could negatively affect our ability to develop product candidates in a timely manner or within budget. Furthermore, a manufacturer may possess technology related to the manufacture of our product candidate that such manufacturer owns independently. This would increase our reliance on such manufacturer or require us to obtain a license from such manufacturer in order to have another third party manufacture our products. Risks Related to our Intellectual Property and Other Legal Matters If we are unable to adequately protect our proprietary technology from legal challenges, infringement or alternative technologies, our competitive position may be hurt and our operating results may be negatively impacted. We specialize in the development and delivery of therapeutics based on RNA-based technologies, and rely on the issuance of patents, both in the U.S. and internationally, for protection against competitive technologies. Although we believe we exercise the necessary due diligence in our patent filings, our proprietary position is not established until the appropriate regulatory authorities actually issue a patent, which may take several years from initial filing or may never occur. Moreover, even the established patent positions of pharmaceutical companies are generally uncertain and involve complex legal and factual issues. Although we believe our issued patents are valid, third parties may infringe our patents or may initiate proceedings challenging the validity or enforceability of our patents. The issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its claim scope, validity or enforceability. Challenges raised in patent infringement litigation we initiate or in proceedings initiated by third parties may result in determinations that our patents have not been infringed or that they are invalid, unenforceable or otherwise subject to limitations. In the event of any such determinations, third parties may be able to use the discoveries or technologies claimed in our patents without paying us licensing fees or royalties, which could significantly diminish the value of these discoveries or technologies. As a result of such determinations, we may be enjoined from pursuing research, development or commercialization of potential products or may be required to obtain licenses, if available, to the third party patents or to develop or obtain alternative technology. Responding to challenges initiated by third parties may require significant expenditures and divert the attention of our management and key personnel from other business concerns. 27 Table of Contents Furthermore, it is possible others will infringe or otherwise circumvent our issued patents and that we will be unable to fund the cost of litigation against them or that we would elect not to pursue litigation. In addition, enforcing our patents against third parties may require significant expenditures regardless of the outcome of such efforts. We also cannot assure you that others have not filed patent applications for technology covered by our pending applications or that we were the first to invent the technology. There may also exist third party patents or patent applications relevant to our potential products that may block or compete with the technologies covered by our patent applications and third parties may independently develop IP similar to our patented IP, which could result in, among other things, interference proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention. In addition, we may not be able to protect our established and pending patent positions from competitive technologies, which may provide more effective therapeutic benefit to patients and which may therefore make our products, technology and proprietary position obsolete. We also rely on copyright and trademark protection, trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovation and licensing opportunities. In an effort to maintain the confidentiality and ownership of our trade secrets and proprietary information, we require our employees, consultants, advisors and others to whom we disclose confidential information to execute confidentiality and proprietary information agreements. However, it is possible that these agreements may be breached, invalidated or rendered unenforceable, and if so, there may not be an adequate corrective remedy available. Furthermore, like many companies in our industry, we may from time to time hire scientific personnel formerly employed by other companies involved in one or more areas similar to the activities we conduct. In some situations, our confidentiality and proprietary information agreements may conflict with, or be subject to, the rights of third parties with whom our employees, consultants or advisors have prior employment or consulting relationships. Although we require our employees and consultants to maintain the confidentiality of all confidential information of previous employers, we or these individuals may be subject to allegations of trade secret misappropriation or other similar claims as a result of their prior affiliations. Finally, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques, or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. Our failure to protect our proprietary information and techniques may inhibit or limit our ability to exclude certain competitors from the market and execute our business strategies. If we are unable to adequately protect our proprietary intellectual property from legal challenges, infringement or alternative technologies, we will not be able to compete effectively in the drug discovery and development business. Because intellectual property rights are of limited duration, expiration of intellectual property rights and licenses will negatively impact our operating results. Intellectual property rights, such as patents and license agreements based on those patents, generally are of limited duration. Our operating results depend on our patents and IP licenses. Therefore, the expiration or other loss of rights associated with IP and IP licenses can negatively impact our business. Our patent applications may be inadequate in terms of priority, scope or commercial value. We apply for patents covering our discoveries and technologies as we deem appropriate. However, we may fail to apply for patents on important discoveries or technologies in a timely fashion or at all. Also, our pending patent applications may not result in the issuance of any patents. These applications may not be sufficient to meet the statutory requirements for patentability, and therefore we may be unable to obtain enforceable patents covering the related discoveries or technologies we may want to commercialize. In addition, because patent applications are maintained in secrecy for approximately 18 months after filing, other parties may have filed patent applications relating to inventions before our applications covering the same or similar inventions. In addition, foreign patent applications are often published initially in local languages, and until an English 28 Table of Contents language translation is available it can be impossible to determine the significance of a third party invention. Any patent applications filed by third parties may prevail over our patent applications or may result in patents that issue alongside patents issued to us, leading to uncertainty over the scope of the patents or the freedom to practice the claimed inventions. Although we have in-licensed a number of issued patents, the discoveries or technologies covered by these patents may not have any therapeutic or commercial value. Also, issued patents may not provide commercially meaningful protection against competitors. Other parties may be able to design around our issued patents or independently develop products having effects similar or identical to our patented product candidates. In addition, the scope of our patents is subject to considerable uncertainty and competitors or other parties may obtain similar patents of uncertain scope. We are dependent on technologies we license, and if we lose the right to license such technologies or we fail to license new technologies in the future, our ability to develop new products would be harmed. We currently are dependent on licenses from third parties for our key technologies relating to fundamental RNAi technologies. Our current licenses impose, and any future licenses we enter are likely to impose, various development, funding, royalty, diligence, sublicensing, insurance and other obligations on us. If our license with respect to any of these technologies is terminated for any reason, the development of the products contemplated by the licenses would be delayed, or suspended altogether, while we seek to license similar technology or develop new non-infringing technology. The costs of obtaining new licenses are high, and many patents in the RNAi field have already been exclusively licensed to third parties, including our competitors. If any of our existing licenses is terminated, the development of the products contemplated by the licenses could be delayed or terminated and we may not be able to negotiate additional licenses on acceptable terms, if at all, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be required to defend lawsuits or pay damages for product liability claims. Our business inherently exposes us to potential product liability claims. We face substantial product liability exposure in human clinical trials that we may initiate and for products that we sell, or manufacture for others to sell, after regulatory approval. The risk exists even with respect to those drugs that are approved by regulatory agencies for commercial distribution and sale and are manufactured in facilities licensed and regulated by regulatory agencies. Any product liability claims, regardless of their merits, could be costly, divert management’s attention, delay or prevent completion of our clinical development programs, and adversely affect our reputation and the demand for our products. We currently have product liability insurance that we believe is appropriate for our stage of development and may need to obtain higher levels prior to marketing any of our product candidates. Any insurance we have or may obtain may not provide sufficient coverage against potential liabilities. Furthermore, clinical trial and product liability insurance is becoming increasingly expensive. As a result, we may be unable to obtain sufficient insurance at a reasonable cost to protect us against losses caused by product liability claims that could have a material adverse effect on our business. 29 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Commercialization of our Product Candidates Our product development efforts may not result in commercial products. Our future results of operations depend, to a significant degree, upon our and any collaboration partners’ ability to successfully develop and commercialize pharmaceutical products. The development and commercialization process, particularly with respect to innovative products, is both time consuming and costly and involves a high degree of business risk. Successful product development in the pharmaceutical industry is highly uncertain, and very few research and development projects result in a commercial product. Product candidates that appear promising in the early phases of development, such as in preclinical testing or in early human clinical trials, may fail to reach the market for a number of reasons, such as: • a product candidate may not perform as expected in later or broader trials in humans and limit marketability of such product candidate; • necessary regulatory approvals may not be obtained in a timely manner, if at all; • a product candidate may not be able to be successfully and profitably produced and marketed; • third parties may have proprietary rights to a product candidate, and do not allow sale on reasonable terms; or • a product candidate may not be financially successful because of existing therapeutics that offer equivalent or better treatments. Only one of our product candidates utilizing our technologies has commenced human clinical studies, and none of such product candidates has been approved by the FDA or any foreign regulatory authority. There can be no assurance that any of our product candidates currently in research or development, or that may enter research or development, will ever be successfully commercialized, and delays in any part of the process or our inability to obtain regulatory approval could adversely affect our operating results by restricting introduction of new products by us or any future collaboration partners. Even if we are successful in developing and commercializing a product candidate, it is possible that the commercial opportunity for RNA-based therapeutics will be limited. The product candidates that we are developing are based on new technologies and therapeutic approaches, none of which have yet been brought to market. Key participants in pharmaceutical marketplaces, such as physicians, third-party payors and consumers, may not accept a product intended to improve therapeutic results based on RNAi technology. Accordingly, while we believe there will be a commercial market for RNA-based therapeutics utilizing our technologies, there can be no assurance that this will be the case, in particular given the novelty of the field. Many factors may affect the market acceptance and commercial success of any potential products, including: • establishment and demonstration of the effectiveness and safety of the drugs; • timing of market entry as compared to competitive products and alternative treatments; • the benefits of our drugs relative to their prices, and the comparative price of competing products and treatments; • the availability of adequate government and third-party payor reimbursement; • marketing and distribution support of our products; • the safety, efficacy and ease of administration of our product candidates; • the willingness of patients to accept, and the willingness of medical professionals to prescribe, relatively new therapies; and • any restrictions on labeled indications. 30 Table of Contents Risks Related to our Industry Any drugs we develop may become subject to unfavorable pricing regulations, third-party reimbursement practices or healthcare reform initiatives, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The success of our products will depend upon the extent to which third-party payors, such as Medicare, Medicaid and other domestic and international government programs, private insurance plans and managed care programs, provide reimbursement for the use of such products. Most third-party payors may deny reimbursement if they determine that a medical product was not used in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods, as determined by the third-party payor, or was used for an unapproved indication. Third-party payors also may refuse to reimburse for experimental procedures and devices. Furthermore, because our programs are in the early stages of development, we are unable at this time to determine their cost-effectiveness and the level or method of reimbursement. Increasingly, the third-party payors, who reimburse patients, such as government and private insurance plans, are requiring that drug companies provide them with predetermined discounts from list prices, and are challenging the prices charged for medical products. If the price we are able to charge for any products we develop is inadequate in light of our development and other costs, our profitability could be adversely effected. We currently expect that any drugs we develop may need to be administered under the supervision of a physician. Under currently applicable law, drugs that are not usually self-administered may be eligible for coverage by the Medicare program if: • they are “incidental” to a physician’s services; • they are “reasonable and necessary” for the diagnosis or treatment of the illness or injury for which they are administered according to accepted standards of medical practice; • they are not excluded as immunizations; and • they have been approved by the FDA. There may be significant delays in obtaining insurance coverage for newly-approved drugs, and insurance coverage may be more limited than the purpose for which the drug is approved by the FDA. Moreover, eligibility for insurance coverage does not imply that any drug will be reimbursed in all cases or at a rate that covers our costs, including research, development, manufacture, sale and distribution. Interim payments for new drugs, if applicable, may also not be sufficient to cover our costs and may not be made permanent. Reimbursement may be based on payments for other services and may reflect budgetary constraints or imperfections in Medicare data. Net prices for drugs may be reduced by mandatory discounts or rebates required by government health care programs or private payors and by any future relaxation of laws that presently restrict imports of drugs from countries where they may be sold at lower prices than in the United States. Third-party payors often rely upon Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement rates. Our inability to promptly obtain coverage and profitable reimbursement rates from both government-funded and private payors for new drugs that we develop could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, our ability to raise capital needed to develop products, and our overall financial condition. We believe that the efforts of governments and third-party payors to contain or reduce the cost of healthcare and legislative and regulatory proposals to broaden the availability of healthcare will continue to affect the business and financial condition of pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies. A number of legislative and regulatory changes in the healthcare system in the United States and other major healthcare markets have been proposed in recent years, and such efforts have expanded substantially in recent years. These developments have included prescription drug benefit legislation that was enacted and took effect in January 2006, healthcare reform legislation recently enacted by certain states, and major healthcare reform legislation that was passed by Congress and enacted into law in the United States in 2010. These developments could, directly or indirectly, affect our ability to sell our products, if approved, at a favorable price. 31 Table of Contents In particular, in March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, or PPACA, and a related reconciliation bill were signed into law. This new legislation changes the current system of healthcare insurance and benefits intended to broaden coverage and control costs. The new law also contains provisions that will affect companies in the pharmaceutical industry and other healthcare related industries by imposing additional costs and changes to business practices. The full effects of the U.S. healthcare reform legislation cannot be known until the new law is implemented through regulations or guidance issued by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services and other federal and state healthcare agencies. The financial impact of the U.S. healthcare reform legislation over the next few years will depend on a number of factors, including but not limited, to the policies reflected in implementing regulations and guidance, and changes in sales volumes for products affected by the new system of rebates, discounts and fees. The new legislation may also have a positive impact on our future net sales, if any, by increasing the aggregate number of persons with healthcare coverage in the United States, but such increases are unlikely to be realized until approximately 2014 at the earliest. Moreover, we cannot predict what healthcare reform initiatives may be adopted in the future. Further federal and state legislative and regulatory developments are likely, and we expect ongoing initiatives in the United States to increase pressure on drug pricing. Such reforms could have an adverse effect on anticipated revenues from product candidates that we may successfully develop and for which we may obtain regulatory approval and may affect our overall financial condition and ability to develop drug candidates. The pharmaceutical market is intensely competitive. If we are unable to compete effectively with existing drugs, new treatment methods and new technologies, we may be unable to commercialize successfully any drugs that we develop. The pharmaceutical market is intensely competitive and rapidly changing. Many large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations are pursuing the development of novel drugs for the same diseases that we are targeting or expect to target. Many of our competitors have: • much greater financial, technical and human resources than we have at every stage of the discovery, development, manufacture and commercialization of products; • more extensive experience in pre-clinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals, and in manufacturing, marketing and selling pharmaceutical products; • product candidates that are based on previously tested or accepted technologies; • products that have been approved or are in late stages of development; and • collaborative arrangements in our target markets with leading companies and research institutions. We will face intense competition from drugs that have already been approved and accepted by the medical community for the treatment of the conditions for which we may develop drugs. We also expect to face competition from new drugs that enter the market. We believe a significant number of drugs are currently under development, and may become commercially available in the future, for the treatment of conditions for which we may try to develop drugs. These drugs may be more effective, safer, less expensive, or marketed and sold more effectively, than any products we develop. If we successfully develop product candidates, and obtain approval for them, we will face competition based on many different factors, including: • the safety and effectiveness of our products; • the ease with which our products can be administered and the extent to which patients accept relatively new routes of administration; 32 Table of Contents • the timing and scope of regulatory approvals for these products; • the availability and cost of manufacturing, marketing and sales capabilities; • price; • reimbursement coverage; and • patent position. Our competitors may develop or commercialize products with significant advantages over any products we develop based on any of the factors listed above or on other factors. Our competitors may therefore be more successful in commercializing their products than we are, which could adversely affect our competitive position and business. Competitive products may make any products we develop obsolete or noncompetitive before we can recover the expenses of developing and commercializing our product candidates. Such competitors could also recruit our employees, which could negatively impact our level of expertise and the ability to execute on our business plan. Furthermore, we also face competition from existing and new treatment methods that reduce or eliminate the need for drugs, such as the use of advanced medical devices. The development of new medical devices or other treatment methods for the diseases we are targeting could make our product candidates noncompetitive, obsolete or uneconomical. We may be unable to compete successfully against other companies that are working to develop novel drugs and technology platforms using technology similar to ours. In addition to the competition we face from competing drugs in general, we also face competition from other pharmaceutical companies and medical institutions that are working to develop novel drugs using technology that competes more directly with our own. Among those companies that are working in this field are: Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, Benitec, Dicerna Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Quark Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Regulus, RXi Pharmaceuticals, Silence Therapeutics plc, and Tekmira Pharmaceutical Corp., as well as a number of the multinational pharmaceutical companies. Any of these companies may develop its technology more rapidly and more effectively than us. In addition to competition with respect to our technology and with respect to specific products, we face substantial competition to discover and develop safe and effective means to deliver the drugs that we develop to the relevant cell and tissue types. Substantial resources are being expended by third parties, both in academic laboratories and in the corporate sector, in the effort to discover and develop a safe and effective means of delivery into the relevant cell and tissue types. If safe and effective means to the relevant cell and tissue types were developed by our competitors, our ability to successfully commercialize a competitive product would be adversely affected. Many of our competitors have substantially greater research and development capabilities and financial, scientific, technical, manufacturing, marketing, distribution, and other resources than us. Even if we are successful in developing our product candidates, in order to compete successfully we may need to be first to market or to demonstrate that our products are superior to therapies based on different technologies. If we are not first to market or are unable to demonstrate such superiority, any products for which we are able to obtain approval may not be successful. Risks Related to our Common Stock The trading price of our common stock has been volatile, and investors in our common stock may experience substantial losses. The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and may become volatile again in the future. The trading price of our common stock could decline or fluctuate in response to a variety of factors, including: • our ability to enter into collaborative arrangements with third parties; 33 Table of Contents • our failure to meet the performance estimates of securities analysts; • changes in buy/sell recommendations by securities analysts; • negative results from our clinical and pre-clinical trials; • fluctuation in our quarterly operating results; • substantial sales of our common stock; • general stock market conditions; • our general financial condition; or • other economic or external factors. The stock markets in general, and the markets for biotechnology stocks in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. The Nasdaq Global Market imposes listing standards on our common stock that we may not be able to fulfill, thereby leading to a possible delisting of our common stock. As a listed Nasdaq Global Market company, we are subject to rules covering, among other things, certain major corporate transactions, the composition of our Board of Directors and committees thereof, minimum bid price of our common stock and minimum stockholders equity. The failure to meet these or other Nasdaq Global Market requirements may result in the de-listing of our common stock from the Nasdaq Global Market, which could adversely affect the liquidity and market price thereof. Various restrictions in our charter documents and Delaware law could prevent or delay a change in control of us that is not supported by our board of directors. We are subject to a number of provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law that may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or change of control that a stockholder may consider favorable. These anti-takeover provisions include: • advance notice procedures for nominations of candidates for election as directors and for stockholder proposals to be considered at stockholders’ meetings; and • the Delaware anti-takeover statute contained in Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a merger, consolidation, asset sale or other similar business combination between us and any stockholder of 15% or more of our voting stock for a period of three years after the stockholder acquires 15% or more of our voting stock, unless (1) the transaction is approved by our board of directors before the stockholder acquires 15% or more of our voting stock, (2) upon completing the transaction the stockholder owns at least 85% of our voting stock outstanding at the commencement of the transaction, or (3) the transaction is approved by our board of directors and the holders of 66 2/3% of our voting stock, excluding shares of our voting stock owned by the stockholder. We have never paid dividends on our common stock and we do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have not paid any dividends on our common stock to date, and we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. In addition, the terms of any future debt or credit facility may preclude us from paying any dividends. 34 Table of Contents The anti-takeover provisions of our stockholder rights plan may entrench management, may delay or prevent beneficial takeover bids by third parties and may prevent or frustrate any stockholder attempt to replace or remove the current management even if the stockholders consider it beneficial to do so. We have a stockholder rights plan designed to protect our stockholders from coercive or unfair takeover tactics. Under the plan, we declared a dividend of one preferred stock purchase right for each share of common stock outstanding on March 17, 2000. Each preferred stock purchase right entitles the holder to purchase from us 1/1000th of a share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock for $50.00. In the event any acquiring entity or group accumulates or initiates a tender offer to purchase 15% or more of our common stock, then each holder of a preferred stock purchase right, other than the acquiring entity and its affiliates, will have the right to receive, upon exercise of the preferred stock purchase right, shares of our common stock or shares in the acquiring entity having a value equal to two times the exercise price of the preferred stock purchase right. The preferred stock purchase rights will expire on March 17, 2013, unless we extend the expiration date or in certain limited circumstances, we redeem or exchange such rights prior to such date. The intent of the stockholder rights plan is to protect our stockholders’ interests by encouraging anyone seeking control of our company to negotiate with our board of directors. However, our stockholder rights plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors, even if doing so may be beneficial to our stockholders. This plan may discourage, delay or prevent a tender offer or takeover attempt, including offers or attempts that could result in a premium over the market price of our common stock. This plan could reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock in the future. Furthermore, the anti-takeover provisions of our stockholder rights plan may entrench management and make it more difficult for stockholders to replace management even if the stockholders consider it beneficial to do so. A significant number of shares of our common stock are subject to options, warrants and subscription investment units, and we expect to sell additional shares of our common stock in the future. Sales of these shares will dilute the interests of other security holders and may depress the price of our common stock. As of March 15, 2011, there were 34,364,514 shares of common stock outstanding. As of March 15, 2011, there were vested outstanding options to purchase 2,033,428 shares of common stock, unvested outstanding options to purchase 543,633 shares of common stock, outstanding warrants to purchase 4,943,276 shares of common stock, and outstanding subscription investment units to purchase 2,348,550 shares of common stock. At March 15, 2011, there were 1,077,895 shares of common stock available for future issuance under our stock compensation plans. In addition, we may issue additional common stock and warrants from time to time to finance our operations. We may also issue additional shares to fund potential acquisitions or in connection with additional stock options or restricted stock granted to our employees, officers, directors and consultants under our equity compensation plans. The issuance, perception that issuance may occur, or exercise of warrants or options will have a dilutive impact on other stockholders and could have a material negative effect on the market price of our common stock. 35 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 