ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Relating to being an Early Stage Drug Development Company Our cash and other sources of liquidity, after giving effect to our offering of preferred stock and warrants in March 2014, may only be sufficient to fund our limited operations through May 2015. We will require substantial additional funding to continue our operations beyond that date. If additional capital is not available, we may have to curtail or cease operations, or take other actions that could adversely impact our shareholders. Our business does not generate the cash necessary to finance our operations. We incurred net losses of approximately $29.4 million in 2011 and $9.5 million in 2012. We will require significant additional capital to: ·fund research and development activities relating to our nucleic acid drug discovery platform and the development of our product candidates, including clinical and pre-clinical trials; ·obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates; ·pursue licensing opportunities for our technologies and product candidates; ·protect our intellectual property; ·attract and retain highly-qualified personnel; ·respond effectively to competitive pressures; and ·acquire complementary businesses or technologies. Our future capital needs depend on many factors, including: ·the scope, duration and expenditures associated with our research and development; ·continued scientific progress in these programs; ·the outcome of potential partnering or licensing transactions, if any; ·competing technological developments; ·our proprietary patent position, if any, in our products; and ·the regulatory approval process for our products. As a result of insufficient capital, on June 1, 2012 we announced that we had ceased substantially all day-to-day operations, including most research and development activities, and implemented a furlough of approximately 90% of our employees. As of July 14, 2014, only the CEO remains an employee. All other employees have either resigned or been terminated. We have also sold substantially all of our equipment, and have ceased operations at all of our facilities. As a result, since June 1, 2012 our internal research and development efforts have been, and as of the date of this report they continue to be, minimal or non-existent. We believe that our currently available cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to fund our limited operations through May 2015. At December 31, 2011 as a result of our limited financial resources we believed that there was substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern and this doubt was also expressed by our independent registered public accounting firm in their audit opinion issued in connection with our consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2011 and our consolidated statements of operations, stockholders’ equity and cash flows for 2011. Since that time, we have raised significant funds and believe that we will be able to continue as a going concern at least through May 2015. We will need to raise substantial additional funds through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or additional strategic alliances and licensing arrangements to continue our operations beyond June, 2015. To the extent that we wish to conduct significant pre-clinical activities prior to that date, which we plan to do, we will have to raise capital to do so. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. General market conditions, as well as market conditions for companies that have recently faced, financial distress, may make it very difficult for us to seek financing from the capital markets, and the terms of any financing may adversely affect the holdings or the rights of our stockholders. For example, if we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, further dilution to our stockholders will result, which may substantially dilute the value of their investment. In addition, as a condition to providing additional funds to us, future investors may demand, and may be granted, rights superior to those of existing stockholders. Debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants that could limit our flexibility to conduct future business activities and, in the event of insolvency, could be paid before holders of equity securities received any distribution of corporate assets. We may be required to relinquish rights to our technologies or drug candidates, or grant licenses through alliance, joint venture or agreements on terms that are not favorable to us, in order to raise additional funds. If adequate funds are not available, we may have to further delay, reduce or eliminate one or more of our planned activities. These actions would likely reduce the market price of our common stock. 18 Table of Contents We have no history of profitability and there is a potential for fluctuation in operating results. We have experienced significant operating losses since inception. We currently have no revenues from product sales and will not have any such revenues unless and until a marketable product is successfully developed by us or our partners, receives regulatory approvals, and is successfully manufactured and distributed to the market. We expect to continue to experience losses for the foreseeable future. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Forward-Looking Statements”. We and our partners are developing products based on modulation of coding and non-coding RNA targets. The process of developing such products requires significant research and development efforts, including basic research, pre-clinical and clinical development, and regulatory approval. These activities, together with our sales, marketing, general and administrative expenses, have resulted in operating losses in the past, and there can be no assurance that we can achieve profitability in the future. Our ability to achieve profitability depends on our ability, alone or with our partners, to develop drug candidates, conduct pre-clinical development and clinical trials, obtain necessary regulatory approvals, and manufacture, distribute, market and sell drug products. We cannot assure our stockholders of the success of any of these activities or predict if or when we will ever become profitable. If we are unable to raise sufficient additional capital, we may seek to merge with or be acquired by another entity, and that transaction may adversely affect our business and the value of our securities. If we are unable to raise sufficient additional capital, we may seek to merge or combine with, or otherwise be acquired by, another entity with a stronger cash position, complementary work force, or product candidate portfolio or for other reasons. We believe the market price for our common stock may not accurately reflect the value of our business. While we will continue to seek to maximize the value of our business to our stockholders, the most attractive option for doing so may require us to consummate a transaction involving a merger or combination of our company with, or an acquisition of our company by, another entity. There are numerous risks associated with merging, combining or otherwise being acquired. These risks include, among others, incorrectly assessing the quality of a prospective acquirer or merger-partner, encountering greater than anticipated costs in integrating businesses, facing resistance from employees and being unable to profitably deploy the assets of the new entity. The operations, financial condition, and prospects of the post-transaction entity depend in part on our and our acquirer/merger-partner’s ability to successfully integrate the operations related to our product candidates, business and technologies. We may be unable to integrate operations successfully or to achieve expected cost savings, and any cost savings that are realized may be offset by losses in revenues or other charges to operations. As a result, our stockholders may not realize the full value of their investment. If we lose our remaining key personnel, or if we are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, then we may be unable to successfully develop our business. If we are unable to retain J. Michael French, our President and Chief Executive Officer, or any other executive officers that we hire after the date of this report, our business could be seriously harmed. In addition, if we are unable to attract qualified personnel as we seek to re-start our operations, our business could be seriously harmed. Whether or not our key managers or our key personal have executed an employment agreement, there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain them or replace any of them if we lose their services for any reason. This uncertainty is particularly true given our current financial condition, recent history and requirements necessary to potentially restart research operations. Failure to attract and retain qualified personnel may compromise our ability to negotiate and enter into additional collaborative arrangements, delay our research and development efforts, delay testing of our product candidates, delay the regulatory approval process or prevent us from successfully commercializing our product candidates. In addition, if we have to replace any of these individuals, we may not be able to replace knowledge that they have about our operations. If we make strategic acquisitions, we will incur a variety of costs and might never realize the anticipated benefits. We have limited experience in independently identifying acquisition candidates and integrating the operations of acquisition candidates with our company, and we currently have a limited number of personnel available to assist with such activities. If appropriate opportunities become available, we might attempt to acquire approved products, additional drug candidates, technologies or businesses that we believe are a strategic fit with our business. If we pursue any transaction of that sort, the process of negotiating the acquisition and integrating an acquired product, drug candidate, technology or business might result 19 Table of Contents in operating difficulties and expenditures and might require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business, whether or not any such transaction is ever consummated. Moreover, we might never realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, or impairment expenses related to goodwill, and impairment or amortization expenses related to other intangible assets, which could harm our financial condition. Failure of our internal control over financial reporting could harm our business and financial results. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Internal control over financial reporting includes maintaining records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect our transactions; providing reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary for preparation of the financial statements; providing reasonable assurance that receipts and expenditures of our assets are made in accordance with management authorization; and providing reasonable assurance that unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements would be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud. Our recent financial condition and the loss of personnel have placed pressure on our system of internal control over financial reporting, thereby contributing to the material weaknesses further described in the “Management Report on Internal Control” contained in paragraph (c) of Item 9A of this Annual Report. Our business and operations could suffer in the event of system failures. Our internal computer systems and those of our contractors and consultants are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures. Such events could cause interruption of our operations. For example, the loss of pre-clinical trial data or data from completed or ongoing clinical trials for our product candidates, if any, could result in delays in our regulatory filings and development efforts and significantly increase our costs. To the extent that any disruption or security breach were to result in a loss of or damage to our data, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we could incur liability and the development of our product candidates could be delayed. Risks Related to the Development and Regulatory Approval of our Drug Candidates RNA -based drug development is unproven and may never lead to marketable products. Our future success depends on the successful development, by us or our partners, of RNA-based products and technologies. Neither we nor any other company, including any of our partners, has received regulatory approval to market siRNA, antagomir or miRNA mimics as therapeutic agents. The scientific discoveries that form the basis for our efforts to discover and develop new RNA-based drugs are relatively new. The scientific evidence to support the feasibility of developing drugs based on these discoveries is both preliminary and limited. Relatively few RNA-based product candidates have ever been tested in animals or humans, none of which have received regulatory approval. We currently have only limited data suggesting that we can introduce typical drug-like properties and characteristics into oligonucleotides, such as favorable distribution within the body or tissues or the ability to enter cells and exert their intended effects. In addition, RNA-based compounds may not demonstrate in patients the chemical and pharmacological properties ascribed to them in laboratory studies, and they may interact with human biological systems in unforeseen, ineffective or harmful ways. We may make significant expenditures developing RNA-based technologies without success. As a result, we and our partners may never develop a marketable product utilizing our technologies. If neither we nor any of our partners develops and commercializes drugs based upon our technologies, we may not become profitable. Further, our focus on oligonucleotide-based drug discovery and development, as opposed to more proven technologies for drug development, increases the risks associated with the ownership of our common stock. If neither we nor any of our partners is successful in developing a product candidate using our technology, we may be required to change the scope and direction of our activities. In that case, we may not be able to identify and implement successfully an alternative business strategy. All of our programs, other than our program for CEQ508, are in pre-clinical studies or early stage research. If we are unable to develop and commercialize our product candidates, our business will be adversely affected. 20 Table of Contents A key element of our strategy is to discover, develop and commercialize a portfolio of new products through internal efforts and through those of our current or future strategic partnerships. Whether or not any product candidates are ultimately identified, research programs to identify new disease targets and product candidates require substantial technical, financial and human resources, which we currently do not have. These research programs may initially show promise in identifying potential product candidates, yet fail to yield a successful commercial product for many reasons, including the following: ·competitors may develop alternatives that render our product candidates (or those of our partners) obsolete; ·a product candidate may not have a sustainable intellectual property position in major markets; ·a product candidate may, after additional studies, be shown to have harmful side effects or other characteristics that indicate it is unlikely to be effective; ·a product candidate may not receive regulatory approval; ·a product candidate may not be capable of production in commercial quantities at an acceptable cost, or at all; or ·a product candidate may not be accepted by patients, the medical community or third-party payors. Upon entering into clinical trials, clinical trials of product candidates utilizing our technologies would be expensive and time-consuming, and the results of any of these trials would be uncertain. The research and development programs of our company and our partners with respect to oligonucleotide-based products are at an early stage. Before obtaining regulatory approval for the sale of any product candidates, we and our partners must conduct expensive and extensive pre-clinical tests and clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy in humans of such product candidates. Pre-clinical and clinical testing in patients is a long, expensive and uncertain process, and the historical failure rate for product candidates is high. The length of time generally varies substantially according to the type of drug, complexity of clinical trial design, regulatory compliance requirements, intended use of the drug candidate and rate of patient enrollment for the clinical trials. A failure of one or more pre-clinical studies or clinical trials can occur at any stage of testing. We and our partners may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, the pre-clinical testing and the clinical trial process that could delay or prevent the receipt of regulatory approval or the commercialization of our product candidates, including: ·regulators may not authorize us to commence a clinical trial or conduct a clinical trial at a prospective trial site; ·pre-clinical tests or clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we or a partner may decide, or a regulator may require us, to conduct additional pre-clinical testing or clinical trials, or we or a partner may abandon projects that were previously expected to be promising; ·enrollment in clinical trials may be slower than anticipated or participants may drop out of clinical trials at a higher rate than anticipated, resulting in significant delays; ·third party contractors may fail to comply with regulatory requirements or meet their contractual obligations in a timely manner; ·product candidates may have very different chemical and pharmacological properties in humans than in laboratory testing and may interact with human biological systems in unforeseen, ineffective or harmful ways; ·the suspension or termination of clinical trials if the participants are being exposed to unacceptable health risks; ·regulators, including the FDA, may require that clinical research be held, suspended or terminated for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements; ·the cost of clinical trials may be greater than anticipated; ·the supply or quality of drug candidates or other materials necessary to conduct clinical trials may be insufficient or inadequate; and ·effects of product candidates may not have the desired effects or may include undesirable side effects or the product candidates may have other unexpected characteristics. Further, even if the results of pre-clinical studies or clinical trials are initially positive, it is possible that we or a partner will obtain different results in the later stages of drug development or that results seen in clinical trials will not continue with longer term treatment. Drugs in late stages of clinical development may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy traits despite having progressed through initial clinical testing. For example, positive results in early Phase 1 or Phase 2 clinical trials may not be repeated in larger Phase 2 or Phase 3 clinical trials. It is expected that all of the drug candidates that may be developed by us or our partners based on our technologies will be prone to the risks of failure inherent in drug development. The clinical trials of any or all of the drug candidates of us or our partners could be unsuccessful, which would prevent the commercialization of these drugs. The FDA conducts its own independent analysis of some or all of the pre-clinical and clinical trial data submitted in a regulatory filing and often comes to different and potentially more negative conclusions than the analysis performed by the 21 Table of Contents drug sponsor. The failure to develop safe, commercially viable drugs approved by the FDA would substantially impair our ability to generate revenues and sustain our operations and would materially harm our business and adversely affect our stock price. In addition, significant delays in pre-clinical studies and clinical trials will impede the ability of us or a partner to seek regulatory approvals, commercialize drug candidates and generate revenue, as well as substantially increase development costs. Even if regulatory approvals are obtained for our products, such products will be subject to ongoing regulatory review. If we or a partner fail to comply with continuing U.S. and foreign regulations, the approvals to market drugs could be lost and our business would be materially adversely affected. Following any initial FDA or foreign regulatory approval of any drugs we or a partner may develop, such drugs will continue to be subject to regulatory review, including the review of adverse drug experiences and clinical results that are reported after such drugs are made available to patients. This would include results from any post marketing studies or vigilance required as a condition of approval. The manufacturer and manufacturing facilities used to make any drug candidates will also be subject to periodic review and inspection by regulatory authorities, including the FDA. The discovery of any new or previously unknown problems with the product, manufacturer or facility may result in restrictions on the drug or manufacturer or facility, including withdrawal of the drug from the market. Marketing, advertising and labeling also will be subject to regulatory requirements and continuing regulatory review. The failure to comply with applicable continuing regulatory requirements may result in fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approval, product recalls and seizures, operating restrictions and other adverse consequences. We and our partners are subject to extensive U.S. and foreign government regulation, including the requirement of approval before products may be manufactured or marketed. We, our present and future collaborators, and the drug product candidates developed by us or in collaboration with partners are subject to extensive regulation by governmental authorities in the U.S. and other countries. Failure to comply with applicable requirements could result in, among other things, any of the following actions: warning letters, fines and other civil penalties, unanticipated expenditures, delays in approving or refusal to approve a product candidate, product recall or seizure, interruption of manufacturing or clinical trials, operating restrictions, injunctions and criminal prosecution. The product candidates of us and our partners cannot be marketed in the U.S. without FDA approval or clearance, and they cannot be marketed in foreign countries without applicable regulatory approval. Neither the FDA nor any foreign regulatory authority has approved any of the product candidates being developed by us or our partners based on our technologies. These product candidates are in pre-clinical and early clinical development, and will have to be approved by the FDA or applicable foreign regulatory authorities before they can be marketed in the U.S. or abroad. Obtaining regulatory approval requires substantial time, effort, and financial resources, and may be subject to both expected and unforeseen delays, including, without limitation, citizen’s petitions or other filings with the FDA, and there can be no assurance that any approval will be granted on a timely basis, if at all, or that delays will be resolved favorably or in a timely manner. If our product candidates are not approved in a timely fashion, or are not approved at all, our business and financial condition may be adversely affected. In addition, both before and after regulatory approval, we, our collaborators and our product candidates are subject to numerous requirements by the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities covering, among other things, testing, manufacturing, quality control, labeling, advertising, promotion, distribution and export. These requirements may change and additional government regulations may be promulgated that could affect us, our collaborators or our product candidates. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the U.S. or abroad. There can be no assurance that neither we nor any of our partners will be required to incur significant costs to comply with such laws and regulations in the future or that such laws or regulations will not have a material adverse effect upon our business. We have used, and may continue to use, hazardous chemicals and biological materials in our business. Any disputes relating to improper use, handling, storage or disposal of these materials could be time-consuming and costly. Our research and development operations have involved, and if continued in the future will likely continue to involve, the use of hazardous and biological, potentially infectious, materials. Such use subjects us to the risk of accidental contamination or discharge or any resultant injury from these materials. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and specific waste products. We could be subject to damages, fines or penalties in the event of an improper or unauthorized release of, or exposure of individuals to, these hazardous materials, and our liability could be substantial. The costs of complying with these current and future environmental laws and regulations may be significant, thereby impairing our business. 22 Table of Contents We are also subject to numerous environmental, health and workplace safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures, exposure to blood-borne pathogens and the handling of biohazardous materials. We maintain workers’ compensation insurance to cover us for costs and expenses we may incur due to injuries to our employees resulting from the use of these materials. The limits of our workers’ compensation insurance are mandated by state law, and our workers’ compensation liability is capped at these state-mandated limits. We do not maintain insurance for environmental liability or toxic tort claims that may be asserted against us in connection with our storage or disposal of biological, hazardous or radioactive materials. Additional federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting our operations may be adopted in the future. We may incur substantial costs to comply with, and substantial fines or penalties if we violate, any of these laws or regulations. Failure to comply with foreign regulatory requirements governing human clinical trials and marketing approval for drugs could prevent the sale of drug candidates based on our technologies in foreign markets, which may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement for marketing drug candidates based on our technologies outside the U.S. vary greatly from country to country. We have, and our partners may have, limited experience in obtaining foreign regulatory approvals. The time required to obtain approvals outside the U.S. may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. Neither we nor our partners may be able to obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or by the FDA. Failure to comply with these regulatory requirements or obtain required approvals could restrict the development of foreign markets for our drug candidates and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to our Dependence on Third Parties We may become dependent on our collaborative arrangements with third parties for a substantial portion of our revenue, and our development and commercialization activities may be delayed or reduced if we fail to initiate, negotiate or maintain successful collaborative arrangements. We are, in part, dependent on current and possible future collaborators to develop and commercialize products based on our technologies, and to provide the regulatory compliance, sales, marketing and distribution capabilities required for the success of our business. If we fail to secure or maintain successful collaborative arrangements, our development and commercialization activities will be delayed, reduced or terminated, and our revenues could be materially and adversely impacted. Over the next several years, we may depend on these types of collaborations for a significant portion of our revenue. The expected future milestone and royalty payments and cost reimbursements from collaboration agreements could provide an important source of financing for our research and development programs, thereby facilitating the application of our technology to the development and commercialization of our products. These collaborative agreements might be terminated either by us or by our partners upon the satisfaction of certain notice requirements. Our partners may not be precluded from independently pursuing competing products and drug delivery approaches or technologies. Even if our partners continue their contributions to our collaborative arrangements, of which there can be no assurance, they may nevertheless determine not to actively pursue the development or commercialization of any resulting products. Our partners may fail to perform their obligations under the collaborative arrangements or may be slow in performing their obligations. In addition, our partners may experience financial difficulties at any time that could prevent them from having available funds to contribute to these collaborations. If our collaborators fail to conduct their commercialization, regulatory compliance, sales and marketing or distribution activities successfully and in a timely manner, or if they terminate or materially modify their agreements with us, the development and commercialization of one or more product candidates could be delayed, curtailed or terminated because we may not have sufficient financial resources or capabilities to continue such development and commercialization on our own. For example, since the beginning of 2011, we have entered into agreements with Mirna, ProNAi, Monsanto Company, and Avecia regarding the development and/or commercialization of certain programs and technologies in specified fields of use. We may receive milestone and/or royalty payments as a result of each of these agreements. If our partner with respect to any agreement terminates the applicable agreement or fails to perform its obligations thereunder, we may not receive any revenues from the technology that we have licensed pursuant to the agreement, including any milestone or royalty payments. 23 Table of Contents An interruption in the supply of raw and bulk materials needed for the development of our product candidates could cause product development to be slowed or stopped. We and our partners may obtain supplies of critical raw and bulk materials used in research and development efforts from several suppliers, and long-term contracts may not be in place with any or all of these suppliers. While existing arrangements may supply sufficient quantities of raw and bulk materials needed to accomplish the current preclinical and clinical development of product candidates, there can be no assurance that sufficient quantities of product candidates could be manufactured if our suppliers are unable or unwilling to supply such materials. Any delay or disruption in the availability of raw or bulk materials could slow or stop research and development of the relevant product. We rely and anticipate that we will continue to rely on third parties to conduct clinical trials, and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily, including failing to meet established deadlines for the completion of such clinical trials. We are, and anticipate that we and certain of our partners will continue to be, dependent on contract research organizations, third-party vendors and investigators for pre-clinical testing and clinical trials related to drug discovery and development efforts. These parties are not employed by us or our partners, and neither we nor our partners can control the amount or timing of resources that they devote to our programs. If they fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our drug development programs or if their performance is substandard, it will delay the development and commercialization of our product candidates. The parties with which we and our partners contract for execution of clinical trials play a significant role in the conduct of the trials and the subsequent collection and analysis of data. Their failure to meet their obligations could adversely affect clinical development of our product candidates. Moreover, these parties also may have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which may compete with us and our partners. If they assist our competitors, it could harm our competitive position. If we or our partners were to lose our relationship with any one or more of these parties, there could be a significant delay in both identifying another comparable provider and then contracting for its services. An alternative provider may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all. Even if we locate an alternative provider, is it likely that this provider may need additional time to respond to our needs and may not provide the same type or level of service as the original provider. In addition, any alternative provider will be subject to current Good Laboratory Practices, or cGLP, and similar foreign standards and neither we nor our partners have control over compliance with these regulations by these providers. Consequently, if these providers do not adhere to these practices and standards, the development and commercialization of our product candidates could be delayed. We do not have experience in marketing, selling or distributing our products, and we may need to rely on marketing partners or contract sales companies. Even if we are able to develop our products and obtain necessary regulatory approvals, we do not have experience or capabilities in marketing, selling or distributing our products. We currently have no sales, marketing and distribution infrastructure. Accordingly, we will be dependent on our ability to build this capability ourselves, which would require the investment of significant financial and management resources, or to find collaborative marketing partners or contract sales companies for commercial sale of our internally-developed products. Even if we find a potential marketing partner, of which there can be no assurance, we may not be able to negotiate a licensing contract on favorable terms to justify our investment or achieve adequate revenues. We have very limited manufacturing experience or resources, and we must incur significant costs to develop this expertise or rely on third parties to manufacture our products. We have very limited manufacturing experience. Prior to the cessation of substantially all of our business activities in June 2012, our internal manufacturing capabilities were limited to small-scale production of non-cGMP material for use in in vitro and in vivo experiments. Some of our product candidates utilize specialized formulations whose scale-up and manufacturing could be very difficult. We also have very limited experience in such scale-up and manufacturing, requiring us to depend on a limited number of third parties, who might not be able to deliver in a timely manner, or at all. In order to develop products, apply for regulatory approvals and commercialize our products, we will need to develop, contract for, or otherwise arrange for the necessary manufacturing capabilities. We may manufacture clinical trial materials ourselves or we may rely on others to manufacture the materials we will require for any clinical trials that we initiate. For example, in restarting our FAP clinical trial, we may find that the clinical trial material is no longer suitable for the FAP clinical trial in that the material no longer meets certain specifications agreed upon with the FDA. If we need to remanufacture clinical trial material to restart the FAP trial, we may incur substantial delays and costs associated with the manufacturing new clinical material. There are a limited number of manufacturers that supply RNA. We have relied on several contract manufacturers for 24 Table of Contents our supply of synthetic RNA. There are risks inherent in pharmaceutical manufacturing that could affect the ability of our contract manufacturers to meet our delivery time requirements or provide adequate amounts of material to meet our needs. Included in these risks are synthesis and purification failures and contamination during the manufacturing process, which could result in unusable product and cause delays in our development process, as well as additional expense to us. To fulfill our RNA requirements, if any, we may also need to secure alternative suppliers of synthetic RNAs. In addition to the manufacture of the synthetic RNAs, we may have additional manufacturing requirements related to the technology required to deliver the RNA to the relevant cell or tissue type. In some cases, the delivery technology we utilize is highly specialized or proprietary, and for technical and legal reasons, we may have access to only one or a limited number of potential manufacturers for such delivery technology. Failure by these manufacturers to properly formulate our RNAs for delivery could also result in unusable product and cause delays in our discovery and development process, as well as additional expense to us. The manufacturing process for any products based on our technologies that we or our partners may develop is subject to the FDA and foreign regulatory authority approval process and we (or our partners) will need to contract with manufacturers who can meet all applicable FDA and foreign regulatory authority requirements on an ongoing basis. In addition, if we receive the necessary regulatory approval for any product candidate, we also expect to rely on third parties, including our commercial collaborators, to produce materials required for commercial supply. We may experience difficulty in obtaining adequate manufacturing capacity for our needs. If we are unable to obtain or maintain contract manufacturing for these product candidates, or to do so on commercially reasonable terms, we may not be able to successfully develop and commercialize our products. To the extent that we enter into manufacturing arrangements with third parties, we will depend on these third parties to perform their obligations in a timely manner and consistent with regulatory requirements, including those related to quality control and quality assurance. The failure of a third-party manufacturer to perform its obligations as expected could adversely affect our business in a number of ways, including: ·we may not be able to initiate or continue pre-clinical and clinical trials of products that are under development; ·we may be delayed in submitting regulatory applications, or receiving regulatory approvals, for our product candidates; ·we may lose the cooperation of our collaborators; ·our products could be the subject of inspections by regulatory authorities; ·we may be required to cease distribution or recall some or all batches of our products; and ·ultimately, we may not be able to meet commercial demands for our products. If a third-party manufacturer with whom we contract fails to perform its obligations, we may be forced to manufacture the materials ourselves, for which we may not have the capabilities or resources, or enter into an agreement with a different third-party manufacturer, which we may not be able to do on reasonable terms, if at all. In some cases, the technical skills required to manufacture our product may be unique to the original manufacturer and we may have difficulty transferring such skills to a back-up or alternate supplier, or we may be unable to transfer such skills at all. In addition, if we are required to change manufacturers for any reason, as may be the case for additional clinical material for the FAP clinical trial, we will be required to verify that the new manufacturer maintains facilities and procedures that comply with quality standards and with all applicable regulations and guidelines. The delays associated with the verification of a new manufacturer could negatively affect our ability to develop product candidates in a timely manner or within budget. Furthermore, a manufacturer may possess technology related to the manufacture of our product candidate that such manufacturer owns independently. This would increase our reliance on such manufacturer or require us to obtain a license from such manufacturer in order to have another third party manufacture our products. Risks Related to our Intellectual Property and Other Legal Matters If we are unable to adequately protect our proprietary technology from legal challenges, infringement or alternative technologies, our competitive position may be hurt and our operating results may be negatively impacted. Our business is based upon the development and delivery of RNA-based therapeutics, and we rely on the issuance of patents, both in the U.S. and internationally, for protection against competitive technologies. Although we believe we exercise the necessary due diligence in our patent filings, our proprietary position is not established until the appropriate regulatory authorities actually issue a patent, which may take several years from initial filing or may never occur. Moreover, even the established patent positions of pharmaceutical companies are generally uncertain and involve complex legal and factual issues. Although we believe our issued patents are valid, third parties may infringe our patents or may initiate 25 Table of Contents proceedings challenging the validity or enforceability of our patents. The issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its claim scope, validity or enforceability. Challenges raised in patent infringement litigation we initiate or in proceedings initiated by third parties may result in determinations that our patents have not been infringed or that they are invalid, unenforceable or otherwise subject to limitations. In the event of any such determinations, third parties may be able to use the discoveries or technologies claimed in our patents without paying us licensing fees or royalties, which could significantly diminish the value of these discoveries or technologies. As a result of such determinations, we may be enjoined from pursuing commercialization of potential products or may be required to obtain licenses, if available, to the third party patents or to develop or obtain alternative technology. Responding to challenges initiated by third parties may require significant expenditures and divert the attention of our management and key personnel from other business concerns. Furthermore, it is possible others will infringe or otherwise circumvent our issued patents and that we will be unable to fund the cost of litigation against them or that we would elect not to pursue litigation. In addition, enforcing our patents against third parties may require significant expenditures regardless of the outcome of such efforts. We also cannot assure you that others have not filed patent applications for technology covered by our pending applications or that we were the first to invent the technology. There may also exist third party patents or patent applications relevant to our potential products that may block or compete with the technologies covered by our patent applications and third parties may independently develop IP similar to our patented IP, which could result in, among other things, interference proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention. In addition, we may not be able to protect our established and pending patent positions from competitive technologies, which may provide more effective therapeutic benefit to patients and which may therefore make our products, technology and proprietary position obsolete. We also rely on copyright and trademark protection, trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovation and licensing opportunities. In an effort to maintain the confidentiality and ownership of our trade secrets and proprietary information, we have typically required our employees, consultants, advisors and others to whom we disclose confidential information to execute confidentiality and proprietary information agreements. However, it is possible that these agreements may be breached, invalidated or rendered unenforceable, and if so, there may not be an adequate corrective remedy available. Furthermore, like many companies in our industry, we may from time to time hire scientific personnel formerly employed by other companies involved in one or more areas similar to the activities we conduct. In some situations, our confidentiality and proprietary information agreements may conflict with, or be subject to, the rights of third parties with whom our employees, consultants or advisors have prior employment or consulting relationships. Although we have typically required our employees and consultants to maintain the confidentiality of all confidential information of previous employers, we or these individuals may be subject to allegations of trade secret misappropriation or other similar claims as a result of their prior affiliations. Finally, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques, or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. Our failure to protect our proprietary information and techniques may inhibit or limit our ability to exclude certain competitors from the market and execute our business strategies. If we are unable to adequately protect our proprietary intellectual property from legal challenges, infringement or alternative technologies, we will not be able to compete effectively in the drug discovery and development business. Because intellectual property rights are of limited duration, expiration of intellectual property rights and licenses will negatively impact our operating results. Intellectual property rights, such as patents and license agreements based on those patents, generally are of limited duration. Our operating results depend on our patents and IP licenses. Therefore, the expiration or other loss of rights associated with IP and IP licenses can negatively impact our business. Our patent applications may be inadequate in terms of priority, scope or commercial value. We apply for patents covering our discoveries and technologies as we deem appropriate and as our resources permit. However, we or our partners may fail to apply for patents on important discoveries or technologies in a timely fashion or at all. Also, our pending patent applications may not result in the issuance of any patents. These applications may not be sufficient to meet the statutory requirements for patentability, and therefore we may be unable to obtain enforceable patents covering the related discoveries or technologies we may want to commercialize. In addition, because patent applications are maintained in secrecy for approximately 18 months after filing, other parties may have filed patent applications relating to inventions before our applications covering the same or similar inventions. In addition, foreign patent applications are often published initially in local languages, and until an English language translation is available it can be impossible to determine the significance of a 26 Table of Contents third party invention. Any patent applications filed by third parties may prevail over our patent applications or may result in patents that issue alongside patents issued to us, leading to uncertainty over the scope of the patents or the freedom to practice the claimed inventions. Although we have acquired and in-licensed a number of issued patents, the discoveries or technologies covered by these patents may not have any therapeutic or commercial value. Also, issued patents may not provide commercially meaningful protection against competitors. Other parties may be able to design around our issued patents or independently develop products having effects similar or identical to our patented product candidates. In addition, the scope of our patents is subject to considerable uncertainty and competitors or other parties may obtain similar patents of uncertain scope. We are dependent on technologies we license, and if we lose the right to license such technologies or we fail to license new technologies in the future, our ability to develop new products would be harmed. We currently are dependent on licenses from third parties for certain of our key technologies relating to fundamental chemistry technologies. Our current licenses impose, and any future licenses we enter into are likely to impose, various development, funding, royalty, diligence, sublicensing, insurance and other obligations on us. If our license with respect to any of these technologies is terminated for any reason, the development of the products contemplated by the licenses would be delayed, or suspended altogether, while we seek to license similar technology or develop new non-infringing technology. The costs of obtaining new licenses are high, and many patents in the RNA field have already been exclusively licensed to third parties, including our competitors. If our existing license is terminated, the development of the products contemplated by the licenses could be delayed or terminated and we may not be able to negotiate additional licenses on acceptable terms, if at all, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be required to defend lawsuits or pay damages for product liability claims. Our business inherently exposes us to potential product liability claims. We may face substantial product liability exposure in human clinical trials that we may initiate and for products that we sell, or manufacture for others to sell, after regulatory approval. The risk exists even with respect to those drugs that are approved by regulatory agencies for commercial distribution and sale and are manufactured in facilities licensed and regulated by regulatory agencies. Any product liability claims, regardless of their merits, could be costly, divert management’s attention, delay or prevent completion of our clinical development programs, and adversely affect our reputation and the demand for our products. We currently do not have product liability insurance. We will need to obtain such insurance as we believe is appropriate for our stage of development and may need to obtain higher levels of such insurance if we were ever to market any of our product candidates. Any insurance we have or may obtain may not provide sufficient coverage against potential liabilities. Furthermore, clinical trial and product liability insurance is becoming increasingly expensive. As a result, we may be unable to obtain sufficient insurance at a reasonable cost to protect us against losses caused by product liability claims that could have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to the Commercialization of our Product Candidates Our product development efforts may not result in commercial products. Our future results of operations depend, to a significant degree, upon our and any collaborators’ ability to successfully develop and commercialize pharmaceutical products. The development and commercialization process, particularly with respect to innovative products, is both time consuming and costly and involves a high degree of business risk. Successful product development in the pharmaceutical industry is highly uncertain, and very few research and development projects result in a commercial product. Product candidates that appear promising in the early phases of development, such as in preclinical testing or in early human clinical trials, may fail to reach the market for a number of reasons, such as: ·a product candidate may not perform as expected in later or broader trials in humans and limit marketability of such product candidate; ·necessary regulatory approvals may not be obtained in a timely manner, if at all; ·a product candidate may not be able to be successfully and profitably produced and marketed; ·third parties may have proprietary rights to a product candidate, and do not allow sale on reasonable terms; or ·a product candidate may not be financially successful because of existing therapeutics that offer equivalent or better treatments. Three product candidates, two through our partners ProNAi and Mirna and our own FAP trial, utilizing our technologies have commenced human clinical studies, and such product candidates have not been approved by the FDA or any foreign regulatory 27 Table of Contents authority. The FAP trial is currently on hold and we expect to restart the trial and dose Cohort 3 at such time that we have reestablished clinical operations, ensured the stability of the clinical material and complied with all regulatory requirements. There can be no assurance that any of these product candidates, or other product candidates that may enter research or development, will ever be successfully commercialized, and delays in any part of the process or the inability to obtain regulatory approval could adversely affect our operating results by restricting introduction of new products by us or any future collaborators. Even if we are successful in developing and commercializing a product candidate, it is possible that the commercial opportunity for oligonucleotide-based therapeutics will be limited. The product candidates based on our technologies that are being developed are based on new technologies and therapeutic approaches, none of which have yet been brought to market. Key participants in pharmaceutical marketplaces, such as physicians, third-party payors and consumers, may not accept a product intended to improve therapeutic results based on RNA mechanisms of action. Accordingly, while we believe there will be a commercial market for nucleic acid-based therapeutics utilizing our technologies, there can be no assurance that this will be the case, in particular given the novelty of the field. Many factors may affect the market acceptance and commercial success of any potential products, including: ·establishment and demonstration of the effectiveness and safety of the drugs; ·timing of market entry as compared to competitive products and alternative treatments; ·the benefits of our drugs relative to their prices, and the comparative price of competing products and treatments; ·the availability of adequate government and third-party payor reimbursement; ·marketing and distribution support of our products; ·the safety, efficacy and ease of administration of our product candidates; ·the willingness of patients to accept, and the willingness of medical professionals to prescribe, relatively new therapies; and ·any restrictions on labeled indications. Risks Related to our Industry Any drugs based on our technologies that we or any of our partners develop may become subject to unfavorable pricing regulations, third-party reimbursement practices or healthcare reform initiatives, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. The success of the products based on our technologies will depend upon the extent to which third-party payors, such as Medicare, Medicaid and other domestic and international government programs, private insurance plans and managed care programs, provide reimbursement for the use of such products. Most third-party payors may deny reimbursement if they determine that a medical product was not used in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods, as determined by the third-party payor, or was used for an unapproved indication. Third-party payors also may refuse to reimburse for experimental procedures and devices. Furthermore, because our programs are in the early stages of development, we are unable at this time to determine their cost-effectiveness and the level or method of reimbursement. Increasingly, the third-party payors, who reimburse patients, such as government and private insurance plans, are requiring that drug companies provide them with predetermined discounts from list prices, and are challenging the prices charged for medical products. If the price charged for any products based on our technologies that we or our partners develop is inadequate in light of our development and other costs, our profitability could be adversely affected. We expect that drugs based on our technologies that we or a partner develop may need to be administered under the supervision of a physician. Under currently applicable law, drugs that are not usually self-administered may be eligible for coverage by the Medicare program if: ·they are “incidental” to a physician’s services; ·they are “reasonable and necessary” for the diagnosis or treatment of the illness or injury for which they are administered according to accepted standards of medical practice; ·they are not excluded as immunizations; and ·they have been approved by the FDA. There may be significant delays in obtaining insurance coverage for newly-approved drugs, and insurance coverage may be 28 Table of Contents more limited than the purpose for which the drug is approved by the FDA. Moreover, eligibility for insurance coverage does not imply that any drug will be reimbursed in all cases or at a rate that covers costs, including research, development, manufacture, sale and distribution. Interim payments for new drugs, if applicable, may also not be sufficient to cover costs and may not be made permanent. Reimbursement may be based on payments for other services and may reflect budgetary constraints or imperfections in Medicare data. Net prices for drugs may be reduced by mandatory discounts or rebates required by government health care programs or private payors and by any future relaxation of laws that presently restrict imports of drugs from countries where they may be sold at lower prices than in the United States. Third-party payors often rely upon Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement rates. The inability to promptly obtain coverage and profitable reimbursement rates from both government-funded and private payors for new drugs based on our technologies that we or our partners develop could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, our ability to raise capital, and our overall financial condition. We believe that the efforts of governments and third-party payors to contain or reduce the cost of healthcare and legislative and regulatory proposals to broaden the availability of healthcare will continue to affect the business and financial condition of pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies. A number of legislative and regulatory changes in the healthcare system in the United States and other major healthcare markets have been proposed in recent years, and such efforts have expanded substantially in recent years. These developments have included prescription drug benefit legislation that was enacted and took effect in January 2006, healthcare reform legislation recently enacted by certain states, and major healthcare reform legislation that was passed by Congress and enacted into law in the United States in 2010. These developments could, directly or indirectly, affect our ability to sell our products, if approved, at a favorable price. The full effects of the U.S. healthcare reform legislation cannot be known until the new law is fully implemented through regulations or guidance issued by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services and other federal and state healthcare agencies. The financial impact of the U.S. healthcare reform legislation over the next few years will depend on a number of factors, including but not limited to the policies reflected in implementing regulations and guidance, and changes in sales volumes for products affected by the new system of rebates, discounts and fees. The new legislation may also have a positive impact on our future net sales, if any, by increasing the aggregate number of persons with healthcare coverage in the United States. Moreover, we cannot predict what healthcare reform initiatives may be adopted in the future. Further federal and state legislative and regulatory developments are likely, and we expect ongoing initiatives in the United States to increase pressure on drug pricing. Such reforms could have an adverse effect on anticipated revenues from product candidates based on our technologies that are successfully developed and for which regulatory approval is obtained, and may affect our overall financial condition and ability to develop drug candidates. The pharmaceutical market is intensely competitive. If we are unable to compete effectively with existing drugs, new treatment methods and new technologies, we may be unable to commercialize successfully any drugs that we develop. The pharmaceutical market is intensely competitive and rapidly changing. Many large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations are pursuing the development of novel drugs for the same diseases that we are targeting or expect to target. Many of our competitors have: ·much greater financial, technical and human resources than we have at every stage of the discovery, development, manufacture and commercialization of products; ·more extensive experience in pre-clinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals, and in manufacturing, marketing and selling pharmaceutical products; ·product candidates that are based on previously tested or accepted technologies; ·products that have been approved or are in late stages of development; and ·collaborative arrangements in our target markets with leading companies and research institutions. Products based on our technologies may face intense competition from drugs that have already been approved and accepted by the medical community for the treatment of the conditions for which we may develop drugs. We also expect to face competition from new drugs that enter the market. We believe a significant number of drugs are currently under development, and may become commercially available in the future, for the treatment of conditions for which we and our partners may try to develop drugs. These drugs may be more effective, safer, less expensive, or marketed and sold more effectively, than any products we and our partners develop. If we and our partners successfully develop product candidates based on our technologies, and obtain approval for them, we will face competition based on many different factors, including: 29 Table of Contents ·the safety and effectiveness of such products; ·the ease with which such products can be administered and the extent to which patients accept relatively new routes of administration; ·the timing and scope of regulatory approvals for these products; ·the availability and cost of manufacturing, marketing and sales capabilities; ·price; ·reimbursement coverage; and ·patent position. Our competitors may develop or commercialize products with significant advantages over any products we develop based on any of the factors listed above or on other factors. Our competitors may therefore be more successful in commercializing their products than we are, which could adversely affect our competitive position and business. Competitive products may make any products we develop obsolete or noncompetitive before we can recover the expenses of developing and commercializing our product candidates. Such competitors could also recruit our future employees, which could negatively impact our level of expertise and the ability to execute on our business plan. Furthermore, we also face competition from existing and new treatment methods that reduce or eliminate the need for drugs, such as the use of advanced medical devices. The development of new medical devices or other treatment methods for the diseases we are targeting could make our product candidates noncompetitive, obsolete or uneconomical. We may be unable to compete successfully against other companies that are working to develop novel drugs and technology platforms using technology similar to ours. In addition to the competition we face from competing drugs in general, we also face competition from other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies and medical institutions that are working to develop novel drugs using technology that competes more directly with our own. Among those companies that are working in this field are: Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, Arcturus Therapeutics, Benitec Biopharma, Dicerna Pharmaceuticals, Isis Pharmaceuticals, miRagen Therapeutics, Mirna Therapeutics, Prosensa Therapeutics, Quark Pharmaceuticals, Regulus Therapeutics, Silence Therapeutics, and Tekmira Pharmaceuticals. Any of these companies may develop its technology more rapidly and more effectively than us. In addition to competition with respect to our technology and with respect to specific products, we and our partners face substantial competition to discover and develop safe and effective means to deliver the drugs based on our technologies that are developed to the relevant cell and tissue types. Substantial resources are being expended by third parties, both in academic laboratories and in the corporate sector, in the effort to discover and develop a safe and effective means of delivery into the relevant cell and tissue types. If safe and effective means of delivery to the relevant cell and tissue types were developed by our competitors, our ability to successfully commercialize a competitive product would be adversely affected. Many of our competitors have substantially greater research and development capabilities and financial, scientific, technical, manufacturing, marketing, distribution, and other resources than us. Even if we and our partners are successful in developing product candidates based on our technologies, in order to compete successfully we may need to be first to market or to demonstrate that our products are superior to therapies based on different technologies. If we are not first to market or are unable to demonstrate such superiority, any products for which we are able to obtain approval may not be successful. Risks Related to our Common Stock The trading price of our common stock has been volatile, and investors in our common stock may experience substantial losses. The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and may become volatile again in the future. The trading price of our common stock could decline or fluctuate in response to a variety of factors, including: ·our general financial condition and ability to maintain sufficient capital to continue operations; ·our ability to enter into and maintain collaborative arrangements with third parties; ·our ability to meet the performance estimates of securities analysts; ·changes in buy/sell recommendations by securities analysts; ·negative results from clinical and pre-clinical trials; ·fluctuation in our quarterly operating results; 30 Table of Contents ·reverse splits or increases in authorized shares; ·substantial sales of our common stock; ·general stock market conditions; or ·other economic or external factors. The stock markets in general, and the markets for the securities of companies in our industry in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. We may not be able to consistently satisfy our reporting obligations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and may be subject to penalties as a result of such failure. Prior to the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we did not file with the Securities and Exchange Commission any of the quarterly or annual reports that we are required to file pursuant to Section 13 of the Exchange Act since the filing of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ending on September 30, 2012, which we filed on December 5, 2012. Our failure to satisfy our filing requirements under the Exchange Act in a timely manner could result in the suspension of trading in our common stock, either on a temporary or a permanent basis, as well as other penalties that may be imposed by the Commission. In addition, as per the Securities Purchase Agreement that we entered into with certain accredited investors dated as of March 7, 2014, if we are not current with respect to the filing of all reports required to be filed by us pursuant to Sections 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act (other than Form 8-K reports) by September 1, 2014, such that we are in compliance with Rule 144(c)(1), we will pay monthly cash penalties to each purchaser of our Series C Preferred Stock pursuant to such Securities Purchase Agreement, until such time as such purchasers may sell the shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of the Series C Preferred Stock and upon exercise of the warrants issued pursuant to such Securities Purchase Agreement, without restriction or limitation pursuant to Rule 144 (assuming, for such purpose, the cashless exercise of such warrants). We may not be able to achieve secondary trading of our stock in certain states because our common stock is not nationally traded. Because our common stock is not listed for trading on a national securities exchange, our common stock is subject to the securities laws of the various states and jurisdictions of the U.S. in addition to federal securities law. This regulation covers any primary offering we might attempt and all secondary trading by our stockholders. If we fail to take appropriate steps to register our common stock or qualify for exemptions for our common stock in certain states or jurisdictions of the U.S., the investors in those jurisdictions where we have not taken such steps may not be allowed to purchase our stock or those who presently hold our stock may not be able to resell their shares without substantial effort and expense. These restrictions and potential costs could be significant burdens on our stockholders. Our common stock is traded on the OTC Pink tier of the OTC Markets, which may limit the ability of our stockholders to sell their securities, and may cause volatility in the price of our common stock. Our common stock currently trades on the OTC Pink tier of the OTC Markets. Securities trading on the OTC Pink markets often experience a lack of liquidity as compared to securities trading on a national securities exchange or the OTC Bulletin Board. Such securities also have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations in recent years, which have particularly affected the market prices of many smaller companies like ours. We anticipate that our common stock will be subject to the lack of liquidity and this volume and price volatility that is characteristic of the OTC Pink markets. Our common stock may be considered a “penny stock,” and thereby be subject to additional sale and trading regulations that may make it more difficult to sell. Our common stock may be considered to be a “penny stock” if it does not qualify for one of the exemptions from the definition of “penny stock” under Section 3a51-1 of the Exchange Act. The principal result or effect of being designated a “penny stock” is that securities broker-dealers participating in sales of our common stock will be subject to the “penny stock” regulations set forth in Rules 15-2 through 15g-9 promulgated under the Exchange Act. For example, Rule 15g-2 requires broker-dealers dealing in penny stocks to provide potential investors with a document disclosing the risks of penny stocks and to obtain a manually signed and dated written receipt of the document at least two business days before effecting any transaction in a penny stock for the investor’s account. Moreover, Rule 15g-9 requires broker-dealers in penny stocks to approve the account of any investor for transactions in such stocks before selling any penny stock to that investor. This procedure requires the broker-dealer to (i) obtain from the investor 31 Table of Contents information concerning his or her financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives; (ii) reasonably determine, based on that information, that transactions in penny stocks are suitable for the investor and that the investor has sufficient knowledge and experience as to be reasonably capable of evaluating the risks of penny stock transactions; (iii) provide the investor with a written statement setting forth the basis on which the broker-dealer made the determination in (ii) above; and (iv) receive a signed and dated copy of such statement from the investor, confirming that it accurately reflects the investor’s financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives. Compliance with these requirements may make it more difficult and time consuming for holders of our common stock to resell their shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them in the market or otherwise. Various restrictions in our charter documents and Delaware law could prevent or delay a change in control of us that is not supported by our board of directors. We are subject to a number of provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law that may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or change of control that a stockholder may consider favorable. These anti-takeover provisions include: ·advance notice procedures for nominations of candidates for election as directors and for stockholder proposals to be considered at stockholders’ meetings; and ·the Delaware anti-takeover statute contained in Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a merger, consolidation, asset sale or other similar business combination between us and any stockholder of 15% or more of our voting stock for a period of three years after the stockholder acquires 15% or more of our voting stock, unless (1) the transaction is approved by our board of directors before the stockholder acquires 15% or more of our voting stock, (2) upon completing the transaction the stockholder owns at least 85% of our voting stock outstanding at the commencement of the transaction, or (3) the transaction is approved by our board of directors and the holders of 66 2/3% of our voting stock, excluding shares of our voting stock owned by the stockholder. We have never paid dividends on our common stock and we do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have not paid any dividends on our common stock and do not expect to do so in the foreseeable future. In addition, the terms of any financing arrangements that we may enter into may restrict our ability to pay any dividends. A significant number of shares of our common stock are subject to options, warrants and conversion rights, and we expect to sell additional shares of our common stock in the future. The issuance of these shares – which may occur on a cashless basis – will dilute the interests of other security holders and may depress the price of our common stock. At July 14, 2014, there were outstanding warrants to purchase up to approximately 21.5 million shares of common stock, with approximately 13 million of such warrants having an exercise price that is lower than the closing price of our common stock on July 14, 2014 ($0.56). If any of these warrants are exercised on a cashless basis, we will not receive any cash as a result of such exercises. At July 15, 2014, there were also outstanding 1,200 shares of Series C Convertible Preferred Stock, which shares are convertible into 8 million shares of common stock at an assumed conversion price of $0.75 per share of common stock. In addition, we may issue a significant number of additional shares of common stock (and securities convertible into or exercisable for common stock) from time to time to finance our operations, to fund potential acquisitions, or in connection with additional stock options or restricted stock granted to our employees, officers, directors and consultants. The issuance of common stock (or securities convertible into or exercisable for common stock), and the exercise or conversion of securities exercisable for or convertible into common stock, will have a dilutive impact on other stockholders and could have a material negative effect on the market price of our common stock. There are outstanding a significant number of shares available for future sales under Rule 144. A significant number of shares of our common stock, including shares of common stock that have been issued to our former landlord and certain of our vendors to settle outstanding obligations, and shares of our common stock that may be issuable upon the cashless exercise of outstanding “in-the-money” warrants, may be deemed “restricted shares” and, in the future, may be sold in compliance with Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act. Any sales of such shares of our common stock under Rule 144 could have a depressive effect on the market price of our common stock. In general, under Rule 144, a person (or persons whose shares are aggregated) who is not deemed to have been an affiliate of ours at any time during the three months preceding a sale, and who has beneficially owned restricted securities within the meaning of Rule 144 for at least six months (including any period of consecutive ownership of preceding non-affiliated holders) would be entitled to sell those shares, subject only to the availability of current public information about us. A non-affiliated person who has beneficially owned restricted securities within the meaning of Rule 144 for at least one year would be entitled to sell those shares without regard to the provisions of Rule 144. A person who is deemed to be an affiliate of ours and who has beneficially owned restricted securities within the meaning of Rule 144 for at least six months would be entitled to sell within any three-month period a number of shares that does not exceed the greater of one percent of the then outstanding shares of our common stock or the average weekly trading volume of our common stock during the four calendar weeks preceding such sale. Such sales are also subject to certain manner of sale provisions, notice requirements and the availability of current public information about us. 32 Table of Contents Our Board of Directors has the ability to issue “blank check” Preferred Stock. Our Certificate of Incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 100,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock, with such designation rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by our Board of Directors. At July 14, 2014, 90,000 shares had been designated as Series A Junior participating preferred stock and 1,000 shares had been designated as Series B Preferred Stock, none of which are issued and outstanding. Also at July 14, 2014, 1,200 shares had been designated as Series C Convertible Preferred Stock, all of which are issued and outstanding. Our Board is empowered, without shareholder approval, to issue shares of preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights which could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of our common stock. In the event of such issuances, the preferred stock could be utilized, under certain circumstances, as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of our company. Although we have no present intention to issue any additional shares of our preferred stock, there can be no assurance that we will not do so in the future. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. ITEM 