Item 1A. Risk Factors As a competitor in the banking and financial services industries, the Corporation and its business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this annual report on Form 10-K and in the Corporation’s other filings with the SEC, before making any investment decision with respect to the Corporation’s securities. In particular, you should consider the discussion contained in Item 7 of this annual report, which contains Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The risks and uncertainties described below may not be the only ones the Corporation faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known by the Corporation or that the Corporation currently deems immaterial may also affect the Corporation’s business. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occur or develop, the Corporation’s business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects could change. Under those circumstances, the trading prices of the Corporation’s securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Current market developments may adversely affect the Corporation’s industry, business and results of operations. Dramatic declines in the housing market during the prior year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative securities, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional 6 Table of Contents investors have reduced, and in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers including other financial institutions. The resulting lack of available credit, lack of confidence in the financial sector, increased volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity could materially and adversely affect the Corporation’s business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that the EESA, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, and other initiatives undertaken by the United States government to restore liquidity and stability to the U.S. financial system will help stabilize the U.S. financial system. The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (“EESA”) was enacted in response to the ongoing financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions. Pursuant to the EESA, the U.S. Treasury has authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgages, mortgage-backed securities, preferred equity and warrants, and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. Under its authority provided by EESA, the U.S. Treasury established the Capital Purchase Program, and the core provisions of the Financial Stability Plan. There can be no assurance regarding the actual impact that the EESA or the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the “Recovery Bill”), or programs and other initiatives undertaken by the U.S. government will have on the financial markets; the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced may persist. The failure of the EESA or other government programs to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than 12 months. In recent weeks, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that the Corporation will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on the Corporation’s ability to access capital and on the Corporation’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect the Corporation. The Corporation’s ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. The Corporation has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and it routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial industry. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by the Corporation or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose the Corporation to credit risk in the event of default of the Corporation’s counterparty or client. In addition, the Corporation’s credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by it cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due the Corporation. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect the Corporation’s results of operations. 7 Table of Contents Strong competition may reduce the Corporation’s ability to generate loans and deposits in its market. The Corporation competes in a consolidating industry. Increasingly the Corporation’s competition is large regional companies which have the capital resources to substantially impact such things as loan and deposit pricing, delivery channels and products. This may allow those companies to offer what may be perceived in the market as better products and better convenience relative to smaller competitors like the Corporation, which could impact the Corporation’s ability to grow its assets and earnings. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect the Corporation’s earnings and financial condition. The Corporation derives the majority of its revenue from net interest income. Net interest income may be reduced if more rate sensitive assets than interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature during a time when rates are declining, or if more interest-bearing liabilities than rate sensitive assets reprice or mature during a time when rates are rising; however, the Corporation has historically experienced improved net interest income during periods of rising rates, so if rates fall, the Corporation’s revenue may be adversely impacted. Interest rate changes also impact customer preferences for products. Changing rates can lead to unpredicted cash flow from assets and liabilities, which can impact net interest income. The Corporation’s business may be adversely affected by changes in government policies. The Corporation competes in a highly regulated environment. Changes in regulation are continually being proposed which can substantially impact the Corporation’s products and cost of delivery. Regulatory burdens imposed by legislation such as The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, The USA Patriot Act of 2001, The International Money Laundering Abatement and Anti-Terrorism Financing Act of 2001, The Equal Credit Opportunity Act, The Fair Housing Act, The Community Reinvestment Act and the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act can materially impact the ability of the Corporation to grow should the Corporation fail to develop the systems to adequately comply with these regulations. Failure to comply with these regulations can lead to loss of customer confidence, substantial fines and regulatory constraints on the Corporation’s operations. These burdens can also materially impact the earnings of the Corporation as additional resources are expended to comply with these requirements. The government, through the open market activities of the Federal Reserve Board, can also adversely impact our business. The Federal Reserve Board can change the discount rate which impacts the composition of the Corporation’s balance sheet by influencing the rates that the Corporation earns on its assets and pays on its liabilities. The Corporation may become subject to new or heightened legal standards and regulatory requirements, practices or expectations, which may impede profitability or affect Key’s financial condition, including new regulations imposed in connection with the Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”) provisions of the EESA, such as the Capital Purchase Program, being implemented and administered by the U.S. Treasury in coordination with other federal regulatory agencies, further laws enacted by the U.S. Congress in an effort to strengthen the fundamentals of the economy, or other regulations promulgated by federal regulators to mitigate the systemic risk presented by the current financial crisis such as the FDIC’s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program. Increases in deposit insurance premiums and assessments imposed on the Bank by the FDIC may have an adverse effect on the Corporation’s results of operations. 8 Table of Contents The Corporation may be adversely impacted by weakness in the local economies it serves. The Corporation is geographically concentrated in Lorain County, Ohio, where commercial activity is not expanding at a rate that is being experienced in other parts of Ohio or nationally. This is the result of the local economy’s continued reliance on a weak manufacturing sector, especially steel and automobiles. This can lead to unexpected deterioration in loan quality, slower asset and deposit growth and increased operating losses. The Corporation’s earnings and reputation may be adversely affected if credit risk is not properly managed. Originating and underwriting loans is critical to the success of the Corporation. This activity exposes the Corporation to credit risk, which is the risk of losing principal and interest income because the borrower cannot repay the loan in full. The Corporation depends on collateral in underwriting loans, and the value of this collateral is impacted by interest rates and economic conditions. The Corporation’s earnings may be adversely affected if management does not understand and properly manage loan concentrations. The Corporation’s commercial loan portfolio is concentrated in commercial real estate. This includes significant commercial and residential development customers. This means that the Corporation’s credit risk profile is dependent upon, not only the general economic conditions in the market, but also the health of the local housing market. These loans involve greater risk because they generally are not fully amortizing over the loan period, but have a balloon payment due at maturity. The borrower’s ability to make a balloon payment typically will depend on being able to refinance the loan or to sell the underlying collateral. This factor, combined with others, including our geographic concentration, can lead to unexpected credit deterioration and higher provisions for loan losses. The Corporation is subject to liquidity risk. Market conditions or other events could negatively affect the level or cost of funding, affecting our ongoing ability to accommodate liability maturities and deposit withdrawals, meet contractual obligations, and fund asset growth and new business transactions at a reasonable cost, in a timely manner and without adverse consequences. Although management has implemented strategies to maintain sufficient sources of funding to accommodate planned as well as unanticipated changes in assets and liabilities under both normal and adverse conditions, any substantial, unexpected and/or prolonged change in the level or cost of liquidity could adversely affect the Corporation’s business, financial condition and results of operations. If the Corporation’s technology and systems are damaged, its ability to service customers, comply with regulation and grow asset and liabilities may be adversely impacted. The Corporation is dependent on the proper functioning of its hardware, software and communications. Security breaches, terrorist events, and natural disasters can all have a material impact on the Corporation’s ability to maintain accurate records which is critical to the Corporation’s operations. The Corporation may not be able to attract and retain skilled people. The Corporation’s success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most activities in which the Corporation is engaged can be intense, and the Corporation may not be able to retain or hire the people it wants and/or needs. In order to attract and retain qualified employees, the Corporation must compensate such employees at market levels. If 9 Table of Contents the Corporation is unable to continue to attract and retain qualified employees, or do so at rates necessary to maintain its competitive position, the Corporation’s performance, including its competitive position, could suffer, and, in turn, adversely affect the Corporation’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Pursuant to the standardized terms of the Capital Purchase Program, among other things, the Corporation agreed to institute certain restrictions on the compensation of certain senior executive management positions that could have an adverse effect on the Corporation’s ability to hire or retain the most qualified senior executives. Other restrictions may also be imposed under the Recovery Bill or other legislation or regulations. The Corporation’s ability to attract and/or retain talented executives and/or relationship managers may be affected by these developments or any new executive compensation limits, and such restrictions could adversely affect the Corporation’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation’s issuance of securities to the U.S. Treasury may limit the Corporation’s ability to return capital to its shareholders and is dilutive to the Corporation’s common shares. If the Corporation is unable to redeem such preferred shares, the dividend rate increases substantially after five years. In connection with the Corporation’s sale of $25.2 million of its series B preferred stock to the U.S. Treasury in conjunction with the Capital Purchase Program, the Corporation also issued a warrant to purchase 561,343 of its common shares at an exercise price of $6.74. The number of shares was determined based upon the requirements of the Capital Purchase Program, and was calculated based on the average market price of the Corporation’s common shares for the 20 trading days preceding approval of our issuance (which was also the basis for the exercise price of $6.74). The terms of the transaction with the U.S. Treasury include limitations on the Corporation’s ability to pay dividends and repurchase its common shares. For three years after the issuance or until the U.S. Treasury no longer holds any series B preferred stock, the Corporation will not be able to increase its dividends above the level of its quarterly dividend declared during the third quarter of 2008 ($0.09 per common share on a quarterly basis) nor repurchase any of its common shares or preferred stock without, among other things, U.S. Treasury approval or the availability of certain limited exceptions, e.g., purchases in connection with our benefit plans. Furthermore, as long as the series B preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury is outstanding, dividend payments and repurchases or redemptions relating to certain equity securities, including the Corporation’s common shares, are prohibited until all accrued and unpaid dividends are paid on such preferred stock, subject to certain limited exceptions. These restrictions combined with the dilutive impact of the warrant may have an adverse effect on the market price of the Corporation’s Common Shares, and, as a result, they could adversely affect the Corporation’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Unless the Corporation is able to redeem the series B preferred stock during the first five years, the dividend payments on this capital will increase substantially at that point, from 5% ($1.26 million annually) to 9% ($2.27 million annually). Depending on market conditions at the time, this increase in dividends could significantly impact the Corporation’s liquidity, and as a result, adversely affect the Corporation’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 10 Table of Contents 