ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information described elsewhere in this Annual Report, you should carefully consider the following risk factors, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND OUR INDUSTRY If we do not continue to innovate and provide products and services that are useful to insurance companies in a cost-effective way, we may not remain competitive, and our revenues and operating results could suffer. Our future success depends on our ability to provide innovative and quality products and services for the insurance marketplace. Because our products and services represent the core functionality that powers the businesses of our customers, our competitors are constantly developing innovations in similar products and services. As a result, we must continue to invest significant resources in research and development in order to enhance our existing products and services and introduce new products and services that insurance companies can easily and effectively use. If we are unsuccessful in these endeavors, we may not remain competitive, and our revenues and operating results could suffer. Additionally, we rely on our references from existing customers for new sales. If we are unable to provide quality products and services, then our customers may become dissatisfied and may not provide these references. We also rely on an offshore software development vendor for developing and servicing our products, and our operating results would suffer if we cannot maintain our current cost structure through offshore development resources in the future. We depend on product introductions in order to remain competitive in our industry. We are currently investing resources in product development and expect to continue to do so in the future. Our future success will depend on our ability to continue to enhance our current product line and to continue to develop and introduce new products that keep pace with competitive product introductions and technological developments, satisfy diverse and evolving insurance industry requirements and otherwise achieve market acceptance. We may not be successful in continuing to introduce and market, on a timely and cost-effective basis, product enhancements or new products that respond to technological advances by others. Any failure by us to anticipate or respond adequately to changes in technology and insurance industry preferences, or any significant delays in product development or introduction, would significantly and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our products may not achieve market acceptance, which may make it difficult for us to compete. Our future success will depend upon our ability to increase the number of insurance companies that license our software products. As a result of the intense competition in our industry and the rapid technological changes which characterize it, our products may not achieve significant market acceptance. Further, insurance companies are typically characterized by slow decision-making and numerous bureaucratic and institutional obstacles which will make our efforts to significantly expand our customer base difficult. We depend on key personnel. Our success depends to a significant extent upon a limited number of members of senior management and other key employees, including John W. Roblin, our Chief Executive Officer, Manish D. Shah, our President and Chief Technology Officer, and Maryanne Gallagher, our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer. We maintain “key-man” life insurance on Mr. Roblin, Mr. Shah and Ms. Gallagher in the amount of $1,000,000 per individual. The loss of the service of one or more key managers or other key employees could have a significant and adverse effect upon our business, operating results or financial condition. In addition, we believe that our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain additional highly skilled technical, management, sales and marketing personnel. Competition for such personnel in the computer software industry is intense. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. 8 We may be subject to information technology system failures and network disruptions. Information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches of data security caused by such factors, including, but not limited to, earthquakes, fire, flood, theft, fraud, malicious attack, acts of terrorism or other causes could disrupt our operations. While we have taken steps to address these concerns by implementing internal control measures, there can be no assurance that such a system failure, disruption or breach will not materially adversely affect our financial condition and operating results, including loss of revenue due to adverse customer reaction or required corrective action. In addition, our property and business interruption insurance coverage may not be adequate to fully compensate us for losses that may occur. Our market is highly competitive. Both the computer software and the insurance software systems industries are highly competitive. There are a number of larger companies, including computer manufacturers, computer service and software companies and insurance companies, that have greater financial resources than we have. These companies currently offer and have the technological ability to develop software products that are core to the business of insurance companies and similar to those offered by us. These companies present a significant competitive challenge to our business. Because we do not have the same financial resources as these competitors, we may have a difficult time in the future in competing with these companies. In addition, very large insurers internally develop systems similar to our systems and as a result, they may not become customers of our software. We compete on the basis of our insurance knowledge, products, service, price, system functionality and performance and technological advances. Although we believe we can continue to compete on the basis of these factors, some of our current competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. Our current competitors may be able to: · undertake more extensive marketing campaigns for their brands and services; · devote more resources to product development; · adopt more aggressive pricing policies; and · make more attractive offers to potential employees and third-party service providers. We may need additional financing in order to continue to develop our business. We may need additional financing to continue to fund acquisitions and business development and to expand and grow our business generally. If equity securities are issued in connection with a financing or business acquisition, dilution to our stockholders may result, and if additional funds are raised through the incurrence of debt, we may be subject to further restrictions on our operations and finances both in and outside the ordinary course of business. As of December 31, 2010, we had net stockholders’ equity of approximately $15,204,000 and net working capital of approximately $5,013,000. We depend upon proprietary technology and we are subject to the risk of third party claims of infringement. Our success and ability to compete depends in part upon our proprietary software technology. We also rely on certain software that we license from others. We rely on a combination of trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure and other contractual agreements and technical measures to protect our proprietary rights. We currently have no patents or patent applications pending. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. The steps we take to protect our proprietary technology may not prevent misappropriation of our technology, and this protection may not stop competitors from developing products which function or have features similar to our products. While we believe that our products and trademarks do not infringe upon the proprietary rights of third parties, third parties may claim that our products infringe, or may infringe, upon their proprietary rights. Any infringement claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel, cause product shipment delays or require us to develop non-infringing technology or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. If a claim of product infringement against us is successful and we fail or are unable to develop non-infringing technology or license the infringed or similar technology, our business, operating results and financial condition could be significantly and adversely affected. 9 We depend on existing major customers, the loss of one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We anticipate that our operations will continue to depend upon the continuing business of our existing customers, particularly our major customers, and the ability to attract new customers. In 2010, 2009 and 2008, our software products operations depended primarily on certain existing major customers. Three customers generated approximately 19%, 11%, and 10% of our revenues in 2010. One additional customer, a unit of CHARTIS, accounted for approximately 11%, 15% and 15% of our total revenues in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. One other customer, a second unit of CHARTIS, accounted for approximately 5%, 12% and 17% of our total revenues in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Another customer, a third unit of CHARTIS, generated approximately 4%, 6% and 27% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Our contractual arrangements with these units of CHARTIS, however, do not obligate any of them to continue to purchase from us any additional software license or professional services. Each of the three units of CHARTIS has the obligation to continue to purchase our support services (which include our ASP services) during the applicable contractual term with such unit. The term with respect to our contractual arrangement to provide these services to the first of the CHARTIS units referred to above will expire on March 31, 2012 and, unless the parties mutually agree otherwise, is subject to renewal or non-renewal seven months prior to the expiration date. The term with respect to our contractual arrangement to provide these services to the remaining two units of CHARTIS will expire on September 30, 2012 and will automatically renew for successive one-year terms unless a party delivers a written notice of non-renewal to the other party at least 180 days prior to the expiration of the then current term. For the year ended December 31, 2010, the revenues we generated from such continuing support services (including our ASP services) for the three units of CHARTIS represented approximately 9%, 4% and 4%, respectively, of our total revenues, and the total revenues we generated from the three units of CHARTIS represented approximately 11%, 5% and 4%, respectively. See “Business – Major Customers”. The loss of one or more of our existing major customers or our inability to continue to attract new customers could significantly and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. A decline in computer software spending may result in a decrease in our revenues or lower our growth rate. A decline in the demand for computer software among our current and prospective customers may result in decreased revenues or a lower growth rate for us because our sales depend, in part, on our customers’ level of funding for new or additional computer software systems and services. Moreover, demand for our solutions may be reduced by a decline in overall demand for computer software and services. The current decline in overall technology spending may cause our customers to reduce or eliminate software and services spending and cause price erosion for our solutions, which would substantially affect our sales of new software licenses and the average sales price for these licenses. Because of these market and economic conditions, we believe there will continue to be uncertainty in the level of demand for our products and services. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to increase or maintain our revenues. We may not get the full benefit of our tax loss carry forwards. Under the United States Internal Revenue Code, companies that have not been operating profitably are allowed to apply certain of their past losses to offset future taxable income liabilities they may incur once they reach profitability. These amounts are known as net operating tax loss carryforwards. At December 31, 2010, we had approximately $16 million of federal net operating tax loss carryforwards expiring at various dates through 2026. Because of certain provisions of the Tax Reform Act of 1986 related to change of control, however, we may not get the full benefit of these loss carryforwards. If we are limited from using net operating tax loss carryforwards to offset any of our income, this would increase our taxes owed and reduce our cash for operations. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK Holders of our common stock may have difficulty in selling those shares. Our common stock is not currently traded on any national securities exchange. Our common stock is quoted on the OTCQB. Securities quoted on the OTCQB do not enjoy the same liquidity as securities that trade on a national securities exchange. As a result, you may have difficulty in selling shares of our common stock. In addition, our common stock is a “penny stock” as that term is defined in the Exchange Act. Brokers effecting transactions in a “penny stock” are subject to 10 additional customer disclosure and record keeping obligations, including disclosure of the risks associated with low price stocks, stock quote information and broker compensation. In addition, brokers effecting transactions in a “penny stock” are also subject to additional sales practice requirements under Rule 15g-9 of the Exchange Act including making inquiries into the suitability of “penny stock” investments for each customer or obtaining a prior written agreement for the specific “penny stock” purchase. Because of these additional obligations, some brokers will not effect transactions in “penny stocks.” Our stock price has been volatile. Quarterly operating results have fluctuated and are likely to continue to fluctuate. The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. Factors that are difficult to predict, such as quarterly revenues and operating results, limited trading volumes and overall market performance, may have a significant effect on the price of our common stock. Revenues and operating results have varied considerably in the past from period to period and are likely to vary considerably in the future. We plan product development and other expenses based on anticipated future revenue. If revenue falls below expectations, financial performance is likely to be adversely affected because only small portions of expenses vary with revenue. As a result, quarterly period-to-period comparisons of operating results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon to predict future performance. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, as amended, and by-laws and Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of or changes in our management and, as a result, depress the trading price of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation, as amended (the “Certificate of Incorporation”), and by-laws contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control or changes in our management that our stockholders may deem advantageous. These provisions: · require super-majority voting to amend some provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation and by-laws; · establish a staggered board of directors; · limit the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; · prohibit stockholder action by written consent, which requires all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; · provide that the board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our by-laws; and · establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which, subject to some exceptions, prohibits “business combinations” between a Delaware corporation and an “interested stockholder,” which is generally defined as a stockholder who becomes a beneficial owner of 15% or more of a Delaware corporation’s voting stock for a three-year period following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder. Section 203 could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. These anti-takeover defenses could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing and cause us to take corporate actions other than those you desire. We may not pay any cash dividends on our common stock in the future. Declaration and payment of any dividend on our common stock is subject to the discretion of our board of directors. The timing and amount of dividend payments will be dependent upon factors such as our earnings, financial condition, cash requirements and availability, and restrictions in our credit facilities. While we paid a special cash dividend in April 2009, the payment of future dividends is not guaranteed or assured. Accordingly, it is likely that investors may have to rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. 11 RISKS RELATED TO ACQUISITION We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of Moore Stephens Business Solutions, LLC. On April 12, 2010, we acquired substantially all of the assets (excluding working capital) of MSBS through our wholly-owned subsidiary, Cover-All Systems, Inc. The success of the acquisition will depend on, among other things, our ability to realize anticipated benefits, growth opportunities and cost savings and to integrate the operations of MSBS in a manner that does not materially disrupt our own operations. If we are not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the acquisition may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. Further, it is possible that the integration process could result in the disruption of the ongoing business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that would adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 