ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information described elsewhere in this Annual Report, you should carefully consider the following risk factors, which could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND OUR INDUSTRY While we were profitable in 2007, we incurred losses in 2006 and 2005. Our earnings are volatile, and we may not be profitable in the future. We incurred a loss of $1,000,000 in 2006 and $1,434,000 in 2005. Although we generated net income of $1,231,000 in 2007, $767,000 in 2004 and $392,000 in 2003, there is no assurance that we will be able to maintain profitability in the future. Our ability to invest in sales and marketing programs, to expand and upgrade our technology infrastructure and to fund our research and development efforts will depend on existing cash balances and our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. If we are unable to achieve or maintain profitability in the future, we may be unable to fund our liquidity needs. We may need additional financing in order to continue to develop our business. We may need additional financing to continue to fund the research and development of our software products and to expand and grow our business generally. To the extent that we will be required to fund operating losses, our financial position would deteriorate. We may not be able to find significant additional financing on terms favorable to us or at all. If equity securities are issued in connection with a financing, dilution to our stockholders may result, and if additional funds are raised through the incurrence of debt, we may be subject to further restrictions on our operations and finances. Furthermore, if we do incur additional debt, we may be limiting our ability to repurchase capital stock, engage in mergers, consolidations, acquisitions and asset sales, or alter our lines of business, even though these actions might otherwise benefit our business. As of December 31, 2007, we had a net stockholders’ equity of approximately $2,285,000 and a net working capital of approximately $545,000. We may not have sufficient cash to service our indebtedness. As of December 31, 2007, our outstanding indebtedness consisted in aggregate principal amount of $262,265 on our 8% convertible debentures due 2008, which we refer to as our 2008 Debentures. The 2008 Debentures mature on July 1, 2008, unless they are earlier redeemed by us or converted into shares of our common stock at the holder’s option at a conversion price of $0.30 per share, subject to adjustment. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, to the extent the holders of our debentures do not elect to convert required principal payments into shares of our common stock, and to fund working capital needs and planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. In addition, our ability to generate cash, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive and other factors that are beyond our control. Although as of December 31, 2007, we had working capital of $545,000, we cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that currently anticipated cost savings and operating improvements will be realized on schedule or that future borrowings will be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are unable to repay our indebtedness through cash flow from operations, we may need to obtain additional financing. We cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, or at all. 10 We depend on product development in order to remain competitive in our industry. We are currently investing resources in product development and expect to continue to do so in the future. Our future success will depend on our ability to continue to enhance our current product line and to continue to develop and introduce new products that keep pace with competitive product introductions and technological developments, satisfy diverse and evolving insurance industry requirements and otherwise achieve market acceptance. We may not be successful in continuing to develop and market on a timely and cost-effective basis product enhancements or new products that respond to technological advances by others, or that these products will achieve market acceptance. In addition, we have in the past experienced delays in the development, introduction and marketing of new and enhanced products, and we may experience similar delays in the future. Any failure by us to anticipate or respond adequately to changes in technology and insurance industry preferences, or any significant delays in product development or introduction, would significantly and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our products may not achieve market acceptance, which may make it difficult for us to compete. Our future success will depend upon our ability to increase the number of insurance companies that license our software products. As a result of the intense competition in our industry and the rapid technological changes which characterize it, our products may not achieve significant market acceptance. Further, insurance companies are typically characterized by slow decision-making and numerous bureaucratic and institutional obstacles which will make our efforts to significantly expand our customer base difficult. We depend on key personnel. Our success depends to a significant extent upon a limited number of members of senior management and other key employees, including John W. Roblin, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Maryanne Gallagher, our Chief Operating Officer, and Manish D. Shah, our Chief Technology Officer. We maintain key man life insurance on Mr. Roblin and Ms. Gallagher in the amount of $1,000,000 per individual. We are in the process of obtaining key man life insurance on Mr. Shah in the amount of $1,000,000. The loss of the service of one or more key managers or other key employees could have a significant and adverse effect upon our business, operating results or financial condition. In addition, we believe that our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain additional highly skilled technical, management, sales and marketing personnel. Competition for such personnel in the computer software industry is intense. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Our products are affected by rapid technological change and we may not be able to keep up with these changes. The demand for our products is impacted by rapid technological advances, evolving industry standards in computer hardware and software technology, changing insurance industry requirements and frequent new product introductions and enhancements that address the evolving needs of the insurance industry. The process of developing software products such as those we offer is extremely complex and is expected to become increasingly complex and expensive in the future with the introduction of new platforms and technologies. The introduction of products embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards and practices can render existing products obsolete and unmarketable. Our future success depends upon our ability to anticipate or respond to technological advances, emerging industry standards and practices in a timely and cost-effective manner. We may not be successful in developing and marketing new products or enhancements to existing products that respond to technological changes or evolving industry standards. The failure to respond successfully to these changes and evolving standards on a timely basis, or at all, could have a detrimental effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 11 Our market is highly competitive. Both the computer software and the insurance software systems industries are highly competitive. There are a number of larger companies, including computer manufacturers, computer service and software companies and insurance companies, that have greater financial resources than we have. These companies currently offer and have the technological ability to develop software products similar to those offered by us. These companies present a significant competitive challenge to our business. Because we do not have the same financial resources as these competitors, we may have a difficult time in the future in competing with these companies. In addition, very large insurers internally develop systems similar to our systems and as a result, they may not become customers of our software. We compete on the basis of our insurance knowledge, products, service, price, system functionality and performance and technological advances. Although we believe we can continue to compete on the basis of these factors, some of our current competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. Our current competitors may be able to: · undertake more extensive marketing campaigns for their brands and services; · devote more resources to product development; · adopt more aggressive pricing policies; and · make more attractive offers to potential employees and third-party service providers. We depend upon proprietary technology and we are subject to the risk of third party claims of infringement. Our success and ability to compete depends in part upon our proprietary software technology. We also rely on certain software that we license from others. We rely on a combination of trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure and other contractual agreements and technical measures to protect our proprietary rights. We currently have no patents or patent applications pending. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. The steps we take to protect our proprietary technology may not prevent misappropriation of our technology, and this protection may not stop competitors from developing products which function or have features similar to our products. While we believe that our products and trademarks do not infringe upon the proprietary rights of third parties, third parties may claim that our products infringe, or may infringe, upon their proprietary rights. Any infringement claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel, cause product shipment delays or require us to develop non-infringing technology or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. If a claim of product infringement against us is successful and we fail or are unable to develop non-infringing technology or license the infringed or similar technology, our business, operating results and financial condition could be significantly and adversely affected. We depend on existing major customers. In 2007 and 2006, our software products operations depended primarily on certain existing major customers. One of these major customers accounted for approximately 19% and 27% of our total revenues in 2007 and 2006, respectively. One new other major customer accounted for approximately 25% of our total revenue in 2007. We anticipate that our operations will continue to depend upon the continuing business of our existing customers, particularly the major customers, and the ability to attract new customers. As a result, the loss of one or more of our existing major customers or our inability to continue to attract new customers could significantly and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. 12 A decline in computer software spending may result in a decrease in our revenues or lower our growth rate. A decline in the demand for computer software among our current and prospective customers may result in decreased revenues or a lower growth rate for us because our sales depend, in part, on our customers’ level of funding for new or additional computer software systems and services. Moreover, demand for our solutions may be reduced by a decline in overall demand for computer software and services. The current decline in overall technology spending may cause our customers to reduce or eliminate software and services spending and cause price erosion for our solutions, which would substantially affect our sales of new software licenses and the average sales price for these licenses. Because of these market and economic conditions, we believe there will continue to be uncertainty in the level of demand for our products and services. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to increase or maintain our revenues. We may not get the full benefit of our tax credits. Under the United States Internal Revenue Code, companies that have not been operating profitably are allowed to apply certain of their past losses to offset future taxable income liabilities they may incur once they reach profitability. These amounts are known as net operating loss carryforwards. At December 31, 2007, we had approximately $25,700,000 of federal net operating tax loss carryforwards expiring at various dates through 2026. Because of certain provisions of the Tax Reform Act of 1986 related to change of control, however, we may not get the full benefit of these loss carryforwards. If we are limited from using net operating loss carryforwards to offset any of our income, this would increase our taxes owed and reduce our cash for operations. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK Holders of our common stock may have difficulty in selling those shares. Our common stock is not traded on any securities exchange or an inter-dealer quotation system. Prices for our common stock are quoted on the Over-the-Counter (OTC) Bulletin Board. Securities whose prices are quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board do not enjoy the same liquidity as securities that trade on a securities exchange or an inter-dealer quotation system. As a result, you may have difficulty in selling shares of our common stock. In addition, our common stock is a “penny stock” as that term is defined in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Brokers effecting transactions in a “penny stock” are subject to additional customer disclosure and record keeping obligations, including disclosure of the risks associated with low price stocks, stock quote information, and broker compensation. In addition, brokers effecting transactions in a “penny stock” are also subject to additional sales practice requirements under Rule 15g-9 of the Exchange Act including making inquiries into the suitability of “penny stock” investments for each customer or obtaining a prior written agreement for the specific “penny stock” purchase. Because of these additional obligations, some brokers will not effect transactions in “penny stocks.” 13 Our stock price has been volatile. Quarterly operating results have fluctuated and are likely to continue to fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be highly volatile. Factors that are difficult to predict, such as quarterly revenues and operating results, limited trading volumes and overall market performance, will have a significant effect on the price for shares of our common stock. Revenues and operating results have varied considerably in the past from period to period and are likely to vary considerably in the future. We plan product development and other expenses based on anticipated future revenue. If revenue falls below expectations, financial performance is likely to be adversely affected because only small portions of expenses vary with revenue. As a result, period-to-period comparisons of operating results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon to predict future performance. Our shares are subject to dilution as a result of the conversion of our convertible debentures and the exercise of our warrants. Debentures. As of December 31, 2007, a total of $262,265 was outstanding on our 2008 Debentures, which, at the conversion price of $0.30 per share, were convertible into an aggregate of 874,217 shares of our common stock. The 2008 Debentures mature on July 1, 2008, unless they are earlier redeemed by us or converted into shares of our common stock at the holder’s option. The conversion price with the respect to each of our outstanding debentures is subject to adjustment if and whenever we issue additional shares of our common stock for less than the then current conversion price per share, in which case the conversion price will be reduced to a new conversion price equal to the price per share of the additional stock issued. Pursuant to the terms of the debentures, the issuance or sale of additional shares of our common stock resulting from (1) the conversion of any of the debentures, (2) the exercise of warrants or employee or director stock options outstanding on the day that the debentures were issued or (3) the exercise of stock options to be granted in the future to employees or directors pursuant to our existing stock option plans, will not trigger any adjustment to the conversion price of the debentures. The issuance of any shares of our common stock as a consequence of the conversion of any of the debentures may result in significant dilution to our stockholders and may depress the market price of our common stock. Further, if the conversion price of the debentures is adjusted, the additional shares of our common stock that would be issued upon conversion of the debentures as a result of such adjustment may also result in significant dilution to our stockholders. Warrants. An aggregate of 121,429 warrants, expiring in 2011, to purchase such number of shares of our common stock issued to the same investors, were outstanding as of December 31, 2007 and exercisable at a current exercise price of $0.35 per share. The current exercise prices of these warrants are subject to adjustment if and whenever we issue or sell additional shares of our common stock for less than 95% of the market price on the date of issuance or sale, in which case the exercise price will be reduced to a new exercise price in accordance with the terms of the warrant. Pursuant to the terms of these warrants, the issuance or sale of additional shares of common stock resulting from (1) the exercise of stock options to be granted in the future to employees or directors pursuant to our existing stock option plans or (2) the exercise of any convertible security, in either case outstanding on the date of the warrant, will not trigger any adjustment to the exercise price of the warrants. The issuance of any additional shares of our common stock as a consequence of the exercise of any of the warrants may result in significant dilution to our stockholders and may depress the market price of our common stock. Further, if the exercise price of the warrants is adjusted, the additional shares of our common stock that would be issued upon exercise of the warrants as a result of such adjustment may also result in significant dilution to our stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 14 ITEM 