Item 1A Risk Factors In addition to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should consider the following factors relating to the business of the Corporation. Interest Rate Volatility May Reduce Our Profitability Significant changes in market interest rates may adversely affect both our profitability and our financial condition. Our profitability depends in part on the difference between rates earned on loans and investments and rates paid on deposits and other interest-bearing liabilities. Since market interest rates may change by differing magnitudes and at different times, significant changes in interest rates over an extended period of time could reduce overall net interest income. (See Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk, for additional discussion on interest rate risk.) Changes in the Market Value of Wealth Management and Trust Assets under Administration May Reduce Our Profitability Wealth management and trust fees provide an important source of our total revenues. These fees are primarily dependent on the market value of wealth management and trust assets under administration. These assets primarily consist of marketable securities. Reductions in the market value of these assets due to market conditions or the inability to attract and retain wealth management clients could reduce the level of fees that we earn. Reductions in Deposit Levels Necessitating Increased Borrowing to Fund Loans and Investments The Bank’s principal source of funding is deposits and borrowings. As a general matter, deposits are a lower cost source of funds than borrowings because interest rates paid for deposits are typically less than interest rates charged for borrowings. If, as a result of general economic conditions, market interest rates, competitive pressures or otherwise, the level of the Bank’s deposits were to decline relative to the total sources of funds, the Bank may have to rely more heavily on higher cost borrowings in the future. Our Allowance for Loan Losses May Not Be Adequate to Cover Actual Loan Losses We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for potential losses based on a number of factors. If our assumptions are wrong, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover our losses, which would have an adverse effect on our operating results, and - 12 - Table of Contents may also cause us to increase the allowance in the future. Further, our net income would decrease if we had to add additional amounts to our allowance for loan losses. In addition to general real estate and economic factors, the following factors could affect our ability to collect our loans and require us to increase the allowance in the future: • Regional credit concentration — We are exposed to real estate and economic factors in southern New England, primarily Rhode Island and, to a lesser extent, Connecticut and Massachusetts, because a significant portion of our loan portfolio is concentrated among borrowers in these markets. Further, because a substantial portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate in this area, including residential mortgages, most consumer loans, commercial mortgages and other commercial loans, the value of our collateral is also subject to regional real estate market conditions and other factors that might affect the value of real estate, including natural disasters. • Industry concentration — A portion of our loan portfolio consists of loans to the hospitality, tourism and recreation industries. Loans to companies in this industry may have a somewhat higher risk of loss than some other industries because these businesses are seasonal, with a substantial portion of commerce concentrated in the summer season. Accordingly, the ability of borrowers to meet their repayment terms is more dependent on economic, climate and other conditions and may be subject to a higher degree of volatility from year to year. For a more detailed discussion on the allowance for loan losses, see additional information disclosed in Item 7 under the caption “Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates.” We May Not Be Able to Compete Effectively Against Larger Financial Institutions in Our Increasingly Competitive Industry The financial services industry in our market has experienced both significant concentration and deregulation. This means that we compete with larger bank and non-bank financial institutions for loans and deposits as well as other sources of funding in the communities we serve, and we will likely face even greater competition in the future as a result of recent federal legislative changes. Many of our competitors have significantly greater resources and lending limits than we have. As a result of those greater resources, the large financial institutions that we compete with may be able to provide a broader range of services to their customers and may be able to afford newer and more sophisticated technology. Our long-term success depends on the ability of the Bank to compete successfully with other financial institutions in the Bank’s service areas. Changes in Legislation and/or Regulation and Accounting Principles, Policies and Guidelines Changes in legislation and/or regulation governing financial holding companies and their subsidiaries could affect our operations. The Corporation is subject to extensive federal and state laws and regulations and is subject to supervision, regulation and examination by various federal and state bank regulatory agencies. The restrictions imposed by such laws and regulations limit the manner in which the Corporation may conduct business. There can be no assurance that any modification of these laws and regulations, or new legislation that may be enacted in the future, will not make compliance more difficult or expensive, or otherwise adversely affect the operations of the Corporation. See the section entitled “Supervision and Regulation” in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Changes in accounting principles generally accepted in the United States applicable to the Corporation could have a material impact on the Corporation’s reported results of operations. - 13 - Table of Contents ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. GUIDE 3 Statistical Disclosures The information required by Securities Act Guide 3 “Statistical Disclosure by Bank Holding Companies” is located on the pages noted below. Page I. Distribution of Assets, Liabilities and Stockholder Equity; Interest Rates and Interest Differentials 26, 27 II. Investment Portfolio 34, 60-63 III. Loan Portfolio 35-37, 65 IV. Summary of Loan Loss Experience 38-39, 66 V. Deposits 26, 70 VI. Return on Equity and Assets 18 VII. Short-Term Borrowings N/A 