Item 1A Risk Factors In addition to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should consider the following factors relating to the business of the Corporation. -12- Table of Contents Interest Rate Volatility May Reduce Our Profitability Our consolidated results of operations depend, to a large extent, on the level of net interest income, which is the difference between interest income from interest-earning assets, such as loans and investments, and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. If interest rate fluctuations cause the cost of interest-bearing liabilities to increase faster than the yield on interest-earning assets, then our net interest income will decrease. If the cost of interest-bearing liabilities declines faster than the yield on interest-earning assets, then our net interest income will increase. We measure our interest rate risk using simulation analyses with particular emphasis on measuring changes in net income and net economic value in different interest-rate environments. The simulation analyses incorporate assumptions about balance sheet changes, such as asset and liability growth, loan and deposit pricing and changes due to the mix and maturity of such assets and liabilities. Other key assumptions relate to the behavior of interest rates and spreads, prepayments of loans and the run-off of deposits. These assumptions are inherently uncertain and, as a result, the simulation analyses cannot precisely estimate the impact that higher or lower rate environments will have on net income. Actual results will differ from simulated results due to timing, magnitude and frequency of interest rate changes, changes in cash flow patterns and market conditions, as well as changes in management’s strategies. While various monitors of interest-rate risk are employed, we are unable to predict future fluctuations in interest rates or the specific impact thereof. The market values of most of our financial assets are sensitive to fluctuations in market interest rates. Fixed-rate investments, mortgage-backed securities and mortgage loans typically decline in value as interest rates rise. Prepayments on mortgage-backed securities may adversely affect the value of such securities and the interest income generated by them. Changes in interest rates can also affect the amount of loans that we originate, as well as the value of loans and other interest-earning assets and our ability to realize gains on the sale of such assets and liabilities. Prevailing interest rates also affect the extent to which our borrowers prepay their loans. When interest rates increase, borrowers are less likely to prepay their loans, and when interest rates decrease, borrowers are more likely to prepay loans. Funds generated by prepayments might be reinvested at a less favorable interest rate. Prepayments may adversely affect the value of mortgage loans, the levels of such assets that are retained in our portfolio, net interest income, loan servicing income and capitalized servicing rights. Increases in interest rates might cause depositors to shift funds from accounts that have a comparatively lower cost, such as regular savings accounts, to accounts with a higher cost, such as certificates of deposit. If the cost of interest-bearing deposits increases at a rate greater than the yields on interest-earning assets increase, our net interest income will be negatively affected. Changes in the asset and liability mix may also affect our net interest income. Our principal sources of funding are deposits and borrowings. As a general matter, deposits are a lower cost source of funds than borrowings because interest rates paid for deposits are typically less than interest rates charged for borrowings. If, as a result of general economic conditions, market interest rates, competitive pressures or otherwise, the level of our deposits were to decline relative to the total sources of funds, we may have to rely more heavily on higher cost borrowings in the future. For additional discussion on interest rate risk, see disclosures in Item 7 under the caption "Asset / Liability Management and Interest Rate Risk." The Market Value of Wealth Management Assets under Administration May Be Negatively Affected by Changes in Economic and Market Conditions Revenues from wealth management services represented 27% of our total revenues for 2008. A substantial portion of these fees are dependent on the market value of wealth management assets under administration, which are primarily marketable securities. Changes in domestic and foreign economic conditions, volatility in financial markets, and general trends in business and finance, all of which are beyond our control, could adversely impact the market value of these assets and the fee revenues derived from the management of these assets. -13- Table of Contents We May Not Be Able to Attract and Retain Wealth Management Clients at Current Levels Due to strong competition, our wealth management division may not be able to attract and retain clients at current levels. Competition is strong because there are numerous well-established and successful investment management and wealth advisory firms including commercial banks and trust companies, investment advisory firms, mutual fund companies, stock brokerage firms, and other financial companies. Many of our competitors have greater resources than we have. Our ability to successfully attract and retain wealth management clients is dependent upon our ability to compete with competitors’ investment products, level of investment performance, client services and marketing and distribution capabilities. If we are not successful, our results of operations and financial condition may be negatively impacted. Wealth management revenues are primarily derived from investment management (including mutual funds), trust fees and financial planning services. Most of our investment management clients may withdraw funds from accounts under management generally at their sole discretion. Financial planning contracts must typically be renewed on an annual basis and are terminable upon relatively short notice. The financial performance of our wealth management business is a significant factor in our overall results of operations and financial condition. Our Allowance for Loan Losses May Not Be Adequate to Cover Actual Loan Losses We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for potential losses based on a number of factors. If our assumptions are wrong, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover our losses, which would have an adverse effect on our operating results, and may also cause us to increase the allowance in the future. Material additions to our allowance would materially decrease our net income. In addition to general real estate and economic factors, the following factors could affect our ability to collect our loans and require us to increase the allowance in the future: · Regional credit concentration - We are exposed to real estate and economic factors in southern New England, because a significant portion of our loan portfolio is concentrated among borrowers in this market. Further, because a substantial portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate in this area, including residential mortgages, most consumer loans, commercial mortgages and other commercial loans, the value of our collateral is also subject to regional real estate market conditions and other factors that might affect the value of real estate, including natural disasters. · Industry concentration - A portion of our loan portfolio consists of loans to the hospitality, tourism and recreation industries. Loans to companies in these industries may have a somewhat higher risk of loss than some other industries because these businesses are seasonal, with a substantial portion of commerce concentrated in the summer season. Accordingly, the ability of borrowers to meet their repayment terms is more dependent on economic, climate and other conditions and may be subject to a higher degree of volatility from year to year. · Volatility in the financial markets associated with subprime mortgages, including adverse impacts on credit quality and liquidity within the financial markets, have been associated with a general decline in the real estate and housing market along with significant mortgage loan related losses reported by many other financial institutions. Global and domestic economic conditions have been adversely affected by these factors. No assurance can be given that these conditions will not result in an increase in delinquencies with a negative impact on our loan loss experience, necessitating an increase in our allowance for loan losses. · Federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize additional charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs required by these regulatory agencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. -14- Table of Contents For a more detailed discussion on the allowance for loan losses, see additional information disclosed in Item 7 under the caption “Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates.” We Have Credit Risk Inherent in Our Securities Portfolio We maintain a diversified securities portfolio, which includes mortgage-backed securities issued by U.S. government and government sponsored agencies, obligations of the U.S. Treasury and government-sponsored agencies, securities issued by state and political subdivisions, trust preferred debt securities primarily issued by financial service companies, and corporate debt securities. We also invest in capital securities, which include common and perpetual preferred stocks. We seek to limit credit losses in our securities portfolios by generally purchasing only highly-rated securities. The current economic environment and recent volatility of financial markets increase the difficulty of assessing investment securities impairment and the same influences tend to increase the risk of potential impairment of these assets. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we recorded charges for other-than-temporary impairment of securities of $5.9 million. We believe we have adequately reviewed our investment securities for impairment and that our investment securities are carried at fair value. However, over time, the economic and market environment may provide additional insight regarding the fair value of certain securities, which could change our judgment regarding impairment. This could result in realized losses relating to other-than-temporary declines being charged against future income. Given the current market conditions and the significant judgments involved, there is continuing risk that further declines in fair value may occur and additional material other-than-temporary impairments may be charged to income in future periods, resulting in realized losses. We May Not Be Able to Compete Effectively Against Larger Financial Institutions in Our Increasingly Competitive Industry The financial services industry in our market has experienced both significant concentration and deregulation. This means that we compete with larger bank and non-bank financial institutions for loans and deposits in the communities we serve, and we may face even greater competition in the future due to legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Many of our competitors have significantly greater resources and lending limits than we have. Banks and other financial services firms can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service. In addition, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automated transfer and automatic payment systems. Many competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures than we do. Additionally, due to their size, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than we can. Our long-term success depends on the ability of the Bank to compete successfully with other financial institutions in the Bank’s service areas. Economic Conditions National and local economic conditions have an impact on the banking and financial services industry, including those of the Corporation. The Corporation’s operating results depend to a large extent on providing products and services to customers in our local market area. Unemployment rates, real estate values, demographic changes, property tax rates, and local and state governments have an impact on local and regional economic conditions. An increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values, an increase in property tax rates, or decrease in population could weaken the local economies in which the Corporation operates. Weak economic conditions could lead to credit quality concerns related to repayment ability and collateral protection. These conditions could also affect the Corporation’s ability to retain or grow deposits. Current Levels of Market Volatility Are Unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than 12 months, recently reaching unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. -15- Table of Contents Operational Risk The Corporation is subject to certain operational risks, including, but not limited to, data processing system failures and errors, customer or employee fraud and catastrophic failures resulting from terrorist acts or natural disasters. The Corporation depends upon data processing, software, communication, and information exchange on a variety of computing platforms and networks and over the Internet. Despite instituted safeguards, the Corporation cannot be certain that all of its systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack or other technological difficulties or failures. If information security is breached or other technology difficulties or failures occur, information may be lost or misappropriated, services and operations may be interrupted and the Corporation could be exposed to claims from customers. While the Corporation maintains a system of internal controls and procedures, any of these results could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Technological Development and Changes The financial services industry is subject to rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology driven products and services. In addition to improving the Corporation's ability to serve customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiencies and helps to maintain or reduce expenses. The Corporation's ability to keep pace with technological changes affecting the financial industry and to introduce new products and services based on this new technology will be important to the Corporation's continued success. Changes in Legislation and/or Regulation and Accounting Principles, Policies and Guidelines Changes in legislation and/or regulation governing financial holding companies and their subsidiaries could affect our operations. The Corporation is subject to extensive federal and state laws and regulations and is subject to supervision, regulation and examination by various federal and state bank regulatory agencies. The restrictions imposed by such laws and regulations limit the manner in which the Corporation may conduct business. There can be no assurance that any modification of these laws and regulations, or new legislation that may be enacted in the future, will not make compliance more difficult or expensive, or otherwise adversely affect the operations of the Corporation. See the section entitled "Supervision and Regulation" in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Corporation is subject to tax laws and regulations promulgated by the United States government and the states in which we operate. Changes to these laws and regulations or the interpretation of such laws and regulations by taxing authorities could impact future tax expense and the value of deferred tax assets. Changes in GAAP applicable to the Corporation could have a material impact on the Corporation’s reported results of operations. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. GUIDE 3 Statistical Disclosures The information required by Securities Act Guide 3 “Statistical Disclosure by Bank Holding Companies” is located on the pages noted below. Page I. Distribution of Assets, Liabilities and Stockholder Equity; Interest Rates and Interest Differentials 31-32 II. Investment Portfolio 40-41, 82 III. Loan Portfolio 44-48, 83 IV. Summary of Loan Loss Experience 50-51, 85 V. Deposits 31, 90 VI. Return on Equity and Assets 21 VII. Short-Term Borrowings 91 