Item 1A. Risk Factors.Before making any investment decision with respect to our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained in this report and in our other filings with the SEC. The risks and uncertainties described below and in our other filings are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be impaired. In that event, the market price for our common stock could decline and you may lose your investment. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors.Risks Related to Our Banking Business - Credit Risk and Market RiskOur allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses.We are exposed to the risk that our borrowers may default on their obligations. A borrower’s default on its obligations under one or more loans may result in lost principal and interest income and increased operating expenses as a result of the allocation of management time and resources to the collection and work-out of the loan. In certain situations, where collection efforts are unsuccessful or acceptable work-out arrangements cannot be reached, we may have to write off the loan in whole or in part. In such situations, we may acquire real estate or other assets, if any, that secure the loan through foreclosure or other similar available remedies, and often the amount owed under the defaulted loan exceeds the value of the assets acquired.We periodically make a determination of an allowance for loan losses based on available information, including, but not limited to, the quality of the loan portfolio, certain economic conditions, the value of the underlying collateral and the level of nonaccrual and criticized loans. We rely on our loan quality reviews, our experience and our evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors, in determining the amount of provision required for the allowance for loan losses. Provisions to this allowance result in an expense for the period. If, as a result of general economic conditions, changes to previous assumptions, or an increase in defaulted loans, we determine that additional increases in the allowance for loan losses are necessary, we will incur additional expenses.Determining the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. At any time, there are likely to be loans in our portfolio that will result in losses but that have not been identified as nonperforming or potential problem credits. We cannot be sure that we will be able to identify deteriorating credits before they become nonperforming assets or that we will be able to limit losses on those loans that are identified. We have in the past been, and in the future may be, required to increase our allowance for loan losses for any of several reasons. Federal and state regulators, in reviewing our loan portfolio as part of a regulatory examination, may request that we increase our allowance for loan losses. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in our allowance for loan losses. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed our allowance for loan losses, we will need additional increases in our allowance for loan losses. Any increases in our allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in our net income and, possibly, our capital, and could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.For a more detailed discussion on the allowance for loan losses, see additional information disclosed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates.”Fluctuations in interest rates may reduce our profitability.Our consolidated results of operations depend, to a large extent, on net interest income, which is the difference between interest income from interest-earning assets, such as loans and investments, and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions, both domestic and foreign, and the monetary and fiscal policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. we have adopted asset and liability management policies to minimize the potential adverse effects of changes in interest rates on net interest income, primarily by altering the mix and maturity of loans, investments funding sources, and derivatives. However, even with these policies in place, a change in interest rates can impact our results of operations or financial condition.-17-The market values of most of our financial assets are sensitive to fluctuations in market interest rates. Fixed-rate investments, mortgage-backed securities and mortgage loans typically decline in value as interest rates rise. Changes in interest rates can also affect the rate of prepayments on mortgage-backed securities, thereby adversely affecting the value of such securities and the interest income generated by them.Changes in interest rates can also affect the amount of loans that we originate, as well as the value of loans and other interest-earning assets and our ability to realize gains on the sale of such assets and liabilities. Prevailing interest rates also affect the extent to which our borrowers prepay their loans. When interest rates increase, borrowers are less likely to prepay their loans, and when interest rates decrease, borrowers are more likely to prepay loans. Funds generated by prepayments might be reinvested at a less favorable interest rate. Prepayments may adversely affect the value of mortgage loans, the levels of such assets that are retained in our portfolio, net interest income, loan servicing income and capitalized servicing rights.Increases in interest rates might cause depositors to shift funds from accounts that have a comparatively lower cost, such as regular savings accounts, to accounts with a higher cost, such as certificates of deposit. If the cost of interest-bearing deposits increases at a rate greater than the yields on interest-earning assets increase, our net interest income will be negatively affected. Changes in the asset and liability mix may also affect our net interest income.For additional discussion on interest rate risk, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Asset / Liability Management and Interest Rate Risk.”Our loan portfolio includes commercial loans, which are generally riskier than other types of loans.At December 31, 2012, commercial loans represented 55% of our loan portfolio. Commercial loans generally carry larger loan balances and involve a higher risk of nonpayment or late payment than residential mortgage loans. These loans may lack standardized terms and may include a balloon payment feature. The ability of a borrower to make or refinance a balloon payment may be affected by a number of factors, including the financial condition of the borrower, prevailing economic conditions and prevailing interest rates. Repayment of these loans is generally more dependent on the economy and the successful operation of a business. Because of the risks associated with commercial loans, we may experience higher rates of default than if the portfolio were more heavily weighted toward residential mortgage loans. Higher rates of default could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Environmental liability associated with our lending activities could result in losses.In the course of business, we may acquire, through foreclosure, properties securing loans we have originated that are in default. While we believe that our credit granting process incorporates appropriate procedures for the assessment of environmental contamination risk, there is a risk that hazardous substances could be discovered on these properties, particularly in commercial real estate lending. In this event, we might be required to remove these substances from the affected properties at our sole cost and expense. The cost of this removal could substantially exceed the value of affected properties. We may not have adequate remedies against the prior owner or other responsible parties and could find it difficult or impossible to sell the affected properties. These events could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.We have credit and market risk inherent in our securities portfolio.We maintain a diversified securities portfolio, which includes mortgage-backed securities issued by U.S. government agencies and U.S. government-sponsored enterprises, obligations of U.S. government-sponsored agencies, securities issued by state and political subdivisions, trust preferred debt securities issued primarily by financial service companies, and corporate debt securities. We also invest in capital securities, which include common and perpetual preferred stocks. We seek to limit credit losses in our securities portfolios by generally purchasing only highly-rated securities. Significant credit market anomalies may impact the valuation and liquidity of our securities including conditions such as reduced market liquidity, increased normal bid-asked spreads and increased uncertainty of market participants. Such illiquidity could reduce the market value of our securities, even those with no apparent credit exposure. The valuation of our securities requires judgment and as market conditions change security values may also change.-18-Difficult market conditions and economic trends in the real estate market have adversely affected our industry and our business.We are particularly affected by downturns in the U.S. real estate market. Declines in the real estate market over the past several years, with decreasing property values and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures, may have a negative impact on the credit performance of commercial and construction, mortgage, and consumer loan portfolios resulting in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions as the values of real estate collateral supporting many loans have declined significantly. In addition, continued weakness in the economy and continued high levels of unemployment, among other factors, have led to erosion of customer confidence, a reduction in general business activity and increased market volatility. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and the lack of confidence in the financial markets have adversely affected our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. A worsening of these economic conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the industry. Our ability to properly assess the creditworthiness of customers and to estimate the losses inherent in our credit exposure is made more complex by these difficult market and economic conditions. Accordingly, if these market conditions and trends continue, we may experience increases in foreclosures, delinquencies, write-offs and customer bankruptcies, as well as more restricted access to funds.Continued weakness in the southern New England economy could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.We primarily serve individuals and businesses located in southern New England. As a result, a significant portion of our earnings are closely tied to the economy of that region. Continued weakness or a deterioration in the economy of southern New England could result in the following consequences:• loan delinquencies may increase;• problem assets and foreclosures may increase;• demand for our products and services may decline;• collateral for our loans may decline in value, in turn reducing a customer's borrowing power and reducing the value of collateral securing a loan; and• the net worth and liquidity of loan guarantors may decline, impairing their ability to honor commitments to us.We operate in a highly regulated industry, and laws and regulations, or changes in them, could limit or restrict our activities and could have an adverse impact in our operations.We are subject to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve, and the Bank is subject to regulation and supervision by the Rhode Island Division of Banking and the FDIC, as the insurer of the Bank’s deposits. Federal and state laws and regulations govern numerous matters, including changes in the ownership or control of banks and bank holding companies, maintenance of adequate capital and the financial condition of a financial institution, permissible types, amounts and terms of extensions of credit and investments, permissible non-banking activities, the level of reserves against deposits and restrictions on dividend payments. The FDIC and the Rhode Island Division of Banking have the power to issue cease and desist orders to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law by banks subject to their regulation, and the Federal Reserve possesses similar powers with respect to bank holding companies.Our banking business is also affected by the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve. Changes in monetary or legislative policies may affect the interest rates the Bank must offer to attract deposits and the interest rates it must charge on loans, as well as the manner in which it offers deposits and makes loans. These monetary policies have had, and are expected to continue to have, significant effects on the operating results of depository institutions generally, including the Bank.Because our business is highly regulated, the laws, rules, regulations, and supervisory guidance and policies applicable to us are subject to regular modification and change. It is impossible to predict the competitive impact that any such changes would have on the banking and financial services industry in general or on our business in particular. Such changes may, among other things, increase the cost of doing business, limit permissible activities, or affect the competitive balance between banks and other financial institutions. Changes to statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations, or policies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer, and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other -19-things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations, or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties, and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. See “Business-Supervision and Regulation.”Additional requirements imposed by the Dodd-Frank Act could adversely affect us.The Dodd-Frank Act comprehensively reformed the regulation of financial institutions, products and services. Because many aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act are subject to rulemaking and will take effect over several years, it is difficult to forecast the impact that such rulemaking will have on us, our customers or the financial industry. Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that affect deposit insurance assessments, the payment of interest on demand deposits and interchange fees could increase the costs associated with the Bank’s deposit-generating activities, as well as place limitations on the revenues that those deposits may generate. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act established the CFPB as an independent bureau of the Federal Reserve. The CFPB has the authority to prescribe rules for all depository institutions governing the provision of consumer financial products and services, which may result in rules and regulations that reduce the profitability of such products and services or impose greater costs on us and our subsidiaries. The Dodd-Frank Act also established new minimum mortgage underwriting standards for residential mortgages, and the regulatory agencies have focused on the examination and supervision of mortgage lending and servicing activities. The CFPB recently issued a final rule that requires creditors, such as the Bank, to make a reasonable good faith determination of a consumer's ability to repay any consumer credit transaction secured by a dwelling. The rule provides creditors with minimum requirements for making such ability-to-repay determinations. See “Business-Supervision and Regulation-The Dodd-Frank Act.”Current and future legal and regulatory requirements, restrictions, and regulations, including those imposed under the Dodd-Frank Act, may adversely impact our profitability and may have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, may require us to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make any changes required by the legislation and related regulations and may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified executive officers and employees.We may become subject to more stringent capital requirements.The Dodd-Frank Act requires the federal banking agencies to establish minimum leverage and risk-based capital requirements that will apply to both insured banks and their holding companies. In addition, the federal banking agencies issued three joint proposed rules, or the “proposed capital rules,” that implement the Basel III capital standards and establish the minimum capital levels required under the Dodd-Frank Act. The proposed capital rules establish a minimum common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 6.5% of risk-weighted assets for a “well capitalized” institution, and increase the minimum total Tier 1 capital ratio for a well capitalized institution from 6 % to 8%. Additionally, the proposed capital rules require an institution to establish a capital conservation buffer of common equity Tier 1 capital in an amount equal to 2.5% of total risk weight assets above the 6.5% minimum risk-based capital requirement. The proposed capital rules also phase out trust preferred securities from Tier 1 capital and increase the required capital for certain categories of assets, including higher-risk residential mortgages, higher-risk construction real estate loans and certain exposures related to securitizations, and remove the filter for accumulated other comprehensive income in the current capital rules which currently prevents unrealized gains and losses from being included in the calculation of the institution’s capital.The federal banking agencies extended the deadline for the proposed capital rules to go into effect and indicated that final rules would be issued in 2013. The final capital rules may differ significantly in substance or in scope from the proposed capital rules. However, the final capital rules are expected to increase our capital requirements and related compliance costs. Implementation of these standards, or any other new regulations, may adversely affect our ability to pay dividends, or require us to reduce business levels or raise capital, including in ways that may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.Risks Related to Our Wealth Management BusinessOur wealth management business is highly regulated, and the regulators have the ability to limit or restrict our activities and impose fines or suspensions on the conduct of our business.We offer wealth management services through the Bank and its subsidiary, Weston Financial, a registered investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. The Investment Advisers Act imposes numerous obligations on registered investment advisers, including fiduciary, record keeping, operational and disclosure obligations. We are also subject to the provisions and regulations of ERISA to the extent that we act as a “fiduciary” under ERISA with respect to certain of our clients. ERISA and the applicable provisions of the federal tax laws impose a number of duties on persons -20-who are fiduciaries under ERISA and prohibit certain transactions involving the assets of each ERISA plan which is a client, as well as certain transactions by the fiduciaries (and certain other related parties) to such plans. In addition, applicable law provides that all investment contracts with mutual fund clients may be terminated by the clients, without penalty, upon no more than 60 days notice. Investment contracts with institutional and other clients are typically terminable by the client, also without penalty, upon 30 days notice. Changes in these laws or regulations could have a material adverse impact on our profitability and mode of operations.The market value of wealth management assets under administration may be negatively affected by changes in economic and market conditions.Revenues from wealth management services represented 19% of our total revenues for 2012. A substantial portion of these fees are dependent on the market value of wealth management assets under administration, which are primarily marketable securities. Changes in domestic and foreign economic conditions, volatility in financial markets, and general trends in business and finance, all of which are beyond our control, could adversely impact the market value of these assets and the fee revenues derived from the management of these assets.We may not be able to attract and retain wealth management clients at current levels.Due to strong competition, our wealth management business may not be able to attract and retain clients at current levels. Competition is strong because there are numerous well-established and successful investment management and wealth advisory firms including commercial banks and trust companies, investment advisory firms, mutual fund companies, stock brokerage firms, and other financial companies. Many of our competitors have greater resources than we have.Our ability to successfully attract and retain wealth management clients is dependent upon our ability to compete with competitors’ investment products, level of investment performance, client services and marketing and distribution capabilities. If we are not successful, our results of operations and financial condition may be negatively impacted.Wealth management revenues are primarily derived from investment management (including mutual funds), trust fees and financial planning services. Most of our investment management clients may withdraw funds from accounts under management generally at their sole discretion. Financial planning contracts must typically be renewed on an annual basis and are terminable upon relatively short notice. The financial performance of our wealth management business is a significant factor in our overall results of operations and financial condition.Risks Related to Our OperationsWe are subject to operational risk that could adversely affect our business.We are subject to certain operational risks, including, but not limited to, data processing system failures and errors, inadequate or failed internal processes, customer or employee fraud and catastrophic failures resulting from terrorist acts or natural disasters. We depend upon data processing, software, communication, and information exchange on a variety of computing platforms and networks and over the Internet. Despite instituted safeguards, we cannot be certain that all of its systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack or other technological difficulties or failures. If information security is breached or other technology difficulties or failures occur, information may be lost or misappropriated, services and operations may be interrupted and we could be exposed to claims from customers. While we maintain a system of internal controls and procedures, any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.We may not be able to compete effectively against larger financial institutions in our increasingly competitive industry.We compete with larger bank and non-bank financial institutions for loans and deposits in the communities we serve, and we may face even greater competition in the future due to legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Many of our competitors have significantly greater resources and lending limits than we have. Banks and other financial services firms can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service. In addition, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automated transfer and automatic payment systems. Many competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures than we do. Additionally, due to their size, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than we can. Our -21-long-term success depends on the ability of the Washington Trust to compete successfully with other financial institutions in the Washington Trust’s service areas.We may be unable to attract and retain key personnel.Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry can be intense and we may not be able to hire or retain the key personnel that we depend upon for success. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, knowledge of the markets in which we operate, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel.Damage to our reputation could significantly harm our business, including our competitive position and business prospects.Our ability to attract and retain customers and employees could be adversely affected if our reputation is damaged. Our actual or perceived failure to address various issues could give rise to reputational risk that could cause harm to us and our business prospects. These issues also include, but are not limited to, legal and regulatory requirements; properly maintaining customer and employee personal information; record keeping; money-laundering; sales and trading practices; ethical issues; appropriately addressing potential conflicts of interest; and the proper identification of the legal, reputational, credit, liquidity and market risks inherent in our products. Failure to appropriately address any of these issues could also give rise to additional regulatory restrictions and legal risks, which could, among other consequences, increase the size and number of litigation claims and damages asserted or subject us to enforcement actions, fines and penalties and cause us to incur related costs and expenses.Risks Related to LiquidityWe are subject to liquidity risk.Liquidity is the ability to meet cash flow needs on a timely basis at a reasonable cost. Our liquidity is used principally to originate or purchase loans, to repay deposit liabilities and other liabilities when they come due, and to fund operating costs. Customer demand for non-maturity deposits can be difficult to predict. Changes in market interest rates, increased competition within our markets, and other factors may make deposit gathering more difficult. Disruptions in the capital markets or interest rate changes may make the terms of wholesale funding sources - which include FHLBB advances, brokered certificates of deposit, federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements - less favorable and may make it difficult to sell securities when needed to provide additional liquidity. As a result, there is a risk that the cost of funding will increase or that we will not have sufficient funds to meet our obligations when they come due.We are a holding company and depend on The Washington Trust Company for dividends, distributions and other payments.We are a separate and distinct legal entity from The Washington Trust Company and depend on dividends, distributions and other payments from the Bank to fund dividend payments on our common stock. The Bank is subject to laws that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the payment of cash dividends or other distributions from it to us. Regulatory action of that kind could impede access to funds we need to make payments on our dividend payments. Additionally, if the Bank’s earnings are not sufficient to make dividend payments to us while maintaining adequate capital levels, we may not be able to make dividend payments to our common shareholders.Holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends only when, as and if declared by our board of directors. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and our Board of Directors may reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. Further, the Federal Reserve has issued guidelines for evaluating proposals by large bank holding companies to increase dividends or repurchase or redeem shares, which includes a requirement for such firms to develop a capital distribution plan. The Federal Reserve has indicated that it is considering expanding these requirements to cover all bank holding companies, which may in the future restrict our ability to pay dividends. A reduction or elimination of dividends could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.Risks Related to Accounting and Accounting StandardsIf we are required to write-down goodwill recorded in connection with our acquisitions, our profitability would be negatively impacted.Applicable accounting standards require us to use the purchase method of accounting for all business combinations. Under purchase accounting, if the purchase price of an acquired company exceeds the fair value of the company’s net assets, the excess is carried on the acquirer’s balance sheet as goodwill. At December 31, 2012, we had $58.1 million of goodwill -22-on our balance sheet. Goodwill must be evaluated for impairment at least annually. Write-downs of the amount of any impairment, if necessary, are to be charged to the results of operations in the period in which the impairment occurs. There can be no assurance that future evaluations of goodwill will not result in findings of impairment and related write-downs, which would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Changes in accounting standards are difficult to predict and can materially impact our financial statements.Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board or regulatory authorities change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements.Risks Related to Our Common StockOur common stock is not insured by any governmental entity.Our common stock is not a deposit account or other obligation of any bank and is not insured by the FDIC or any other governmental entity.The market price and trading volume of our stock can be volatile.The price of our common stock can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. We cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly. Some of the factors that could cause fluctuations or declines in the price of our common stock include, but are not limited to, actual or anticipated variations in reported operating results, recommendations by securities analysts, the level of trading activity in our common stock, new services or delivery systems offered by competitors, business combinations involving our competitors, operating and stock price performance of companies that investors deem to be comparable to Washington Trust, news reports relating to trends or developments in the credit, mortgage and housing markets as well as the financial services industry, and changes in government regulations.We may need to raise additional capital in the future and such capital may not be available when needed.As a bank holding company, we are required by regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We may need to raise additional capital in the future to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and our financial performance. We cannot assure you that such capital will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Our inability to raise sufficient additional capital on acceptable terms when needed could subject us to certain activity restrictions or to a variety of enforcement remedies available to the regulatory authorities, including limitations on our ability to pay dividends or pursue acquisitions, the issuance by regulatory authorities of a capital directive to increase capital and the termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC.Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation may have an anti-takeover effect.Provisions of our articles of incorporation and regulations and federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to our shareholders. The combination of these provisions may inhibit a non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.None.