Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should consider the following factors relating to the business of the Corporation. Interest Rate Volatility May Reduce Our Profitability Our consolidated results of operations depend, to a large extent, on the level of net interest income, which is the difference between interest income from interest-earning assets, such as loans and investments, and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. If interest rate fluctuations cause the cost of interest-bearing liabilities to increase faster than the yield on interest-earning assets, then our net interest income will decrease. If the cost of interest-bearing liabilities declines faster than the yield on interest-earning assets, then our net interest income will increase. We are unable to predict future fluctuations in interest rates or the specific impact thereof. The market values of most of our financial assets are sensitive to fluctuations in market interest rates. Fixed-rate investments, mortgage-backed securities and mortgage loans typically decline in value as interest rates rise. Prepayments on mortgage-backed securities may adversely affect the value of such securities and the interest income generated by them. Changes in interest rates can also affect the amount of loans that we originate, as well as the value of loans and other interest-earning assets and our ability to realize gains on the sale of such assets and liabilities. Prevailing interest rates also affect the extent to which our borrowers prepay their loans. When interest rates increase, borrowers are less likely to prepay their loans, and when interest rates decrease, borrowers are more likely to prepay loans. Funds generated by prepayments might be reinvested at a less favorable interest rate. Prepayments may adversely affect the value of mortgage loans, the levels of such assets that are retained in our portfolio, net interest income, loan servicing income and capitalized servicing rights. Increases in interest rates might cause depositors to shift funds from accounts that have a comparatively lower cost, such as regular savings accounts, to accounts with a higher cost, such as certificates of deposit. If the cost of interest-bearing deposits increases at a rate greater than the yields on interest-earning assets increase, our net interest income will be negatively affected. Changes in the asset and liability mix may also affect our net interest income. For additional discussion on interest rate risk, see disclosures in Item 7 under the caption “Asset / Liability Management and Interest Rate Risk.” The Market Value of Wealth Management Assets Under Administration May Be Negatively Affected by Changes in Economic and Market Conditions Revenues from wealth management services represented 22% of our total revenues for 2009. A substantial portion of these fees are dependent on the market value of wealth management assets under administration, which are primarily marketable securities. Changes in domestic and foreign economic conditions, volatility in financial markets, and general trends in business and finance, all of which are beyond our control, could adversely impact the market value of these assets and the fee revenues derived from the management of these assets. We May Not Be Able to Attract and Retain Wealth Management Clients at Current Levels Due to strong competition, our wealth management division may not be able to attract and retain clients at current levels. Competition is strong because there are numerous well-established and successful investment management and wealth advisory firms including commercial banks and trust companies, investment advisory firms, mutual fund companies, stock brokerage firms, and other financial companies. Many of our competitors have greater resources than we have. Our ability to successfully attract and retain wealth management clients is dependent upon our ability to compete with competitors’ investment products, level of investment performance, client services and marketing and distribution capabilities. If we are not successful, our results of operations and financial condition may be negatively impacted. -13- Table of Contents Wealth management revenues are primarily derived from investment management (including mutual funds), trust fees and financial planning services. Most of our investment management clients may withdraw funds from accounts under management generally at their sole discretion. Financial planning contracts must typically be renewed on an annual basis and are terminable upon relatively short notice. The financial performance of our wealth management business is a significant factor in our overall results of operations and financial condition. Our Allowance for Loan Losses May Not Be Adequate to Cover Actual Loan Losses We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for potential losses based on a number of factors. If our assumptions are wrong, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover our losses, which would have an adverse effect on our operating results, and may also cause us to increase the allowance in the future. Material additions to our allowance would materially decrease our net income. In addition to general real estate and economic factors, the following factors could affect our ability to collect our loans and require us to increase the allowance in the future: · Regional credit concentration - We are exposed to real estate and economic factors in southern New England, because a significant portion of our loan portfolio is concentrated among borrowers in this market. Further, because a substantial portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate in this area, including residential mortgages, most consumer loans, commercial mortgages and other commercial loans, the value of our collateral is also subject to regional real estate market conditions and other factors that might affect the value of real estate, including natural disasters. · Industry concentration - A portion of our loan portfolio consists of loans to the hospitality, tourism and recreation industries. Loans to companies in these industries may have a somewhat higher risk of loss than some other industries because these businesses are seasonal, with a substantial portion of commerce concentrated in the summer season. Accordingly, the ability of borrowers to meet their repayment terms is more dependent on economic, climate and other conditions and may be subject to a higher degree of volatility from year to year. · Current economic conditions have contributed to varying declines in residential and commercial real estate values and the value of other collateral as well as increasing the constraints on the cash flows of borrowers. These conditions may also result in an increase in delinquencies with a negative impact on our loan loss experience. Accordingly, our allowance for loan losses may need to be increased, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. · Federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize additional charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs required by these regulatory agencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. For a more detailed discussion on the allowance for loan losses, see additional information disclosed in Item 7 under the caption “Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates.” Our Focus on Commercial Lending May Expose Us to Increased Lending Risks Commercial loans are historically more sensitive to economic downturns. Such sensitivity includes potentially higher default rates and possible declines in collateral values. Commercial lending involves larger loan sizes and significant relationship exposures, which can have a greater impact on profits in the event of adverse loan performance. Commercial lending also involves development financing, which is dependent on the future success of new operations. In addition, commercial loans include lending to nonprofit organizations, which in some cases are particularly sensitive to negative economic events. As of December 31, 2009, commercial loans represent 51% of our loan portfolio. We Have Credit Risk Inherent in Our Securities Portfolio We maintain a diversified securities portfolio, which includes mortgage-backed securities issued by U.S. government agencies and U.S. government-sponsored enterprises, obligations of the U.S. Department of the Treasury and U.S. government-sponsored agencies, securities issued by state and political subdivisions, trust preferred debt securities issued primarily by financial service companies, and corporate debt securities. We also invest in capital securities, -14- Table of Contents which include common and perpetual preferred stocks. We seek to limit credit losses in our securities portfolios by generally purchasing only highly-rated securities. The current economic environment increases the difficulty of assessing investment securities impairment, which increases the risk of potential impairment of these assets. During the year ended December 31, 2009, other-than-temporary impairment losses on investment securities amounted to $3.1 million. Further declines in fair value may occur and additional material other-than-temporary impairments may be charged to income in future periods, resulting in realized losses. If We Are Required to Write-Down Goodwill Recorded in Connection with Our Acquisitions, Our Profitability Would be Negatively Impacted Applicable accounting standards require us to use the purchase method of accounting for all business combinations. Under purchase accounting, if the purchase price of an acquired company exceeds the fair value of the company’s net assets, the excess is carried on the acquirer’s balance sheet as goodwill. At December 31, 2009, the Corporation had approximately $58 million of goodwill on its balance sheet. Goodwill must be evaluated for impairment at least annually. Write-downs of the amount of any impairment, if necessary, are to be charged to the results of operations in the period in which the impairment occurs. There can be no assurance that future evaluations of goodwill will not result in findings of impairment and related write-downs, which would have an adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. We May Not Be Able to Compete Effectively Against Larger Financial Institutions in Our Increasingly Competitive Industry We compete with larger bank and non-bank financial institutions for loans and deposits in the communities we serve, and we may face even greater competition in the future due to legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Many of our competitors have significantly greater resources and lending limits than we have. Banks and other financial services firms can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service. In addition, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automated transfer and automatic payment systems. Many competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures than we do. Additionally, due to their size, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than we can. Our long-term success depends on the ability of the Bank to compete successfully with other financial institutions in the Bank’s service areas. We May Be Unable to Attract and Retain Key Personnel Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry can be intense and we may not be able to hire or retain the key personnel that we depend upon for success. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, knowledge of the markets in which we operate, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. Changes in the National and Local Economy May Affect Our Future Growth Possibilities National and local economic conditions have an impact on the banking and financial services industry. Our operating results depend to a large extent on providing products and services to customers in our local market area. Unemployment rates, real estate values, demographic changes, property tax rates, and local and state governments have an impact on local and regional economic conditions. An increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values, an increase in property tax rates, or decrease in population could weaken the local economies in which we operate. Weak economic conditions could lead to credit quality concerns related to repayment ability and collateral protection. These conditions could also affect our ability to retain or grow deposits. Our Stock Price Can Be Volatile The price of our common stock can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors. These include, but are not limited to, actual or anticipated variations in reported operating results, recommendations by securities analysts, the level of trading activity in our common stock, new services or delivery systems offered by competitors, business combinations involving our competitors, operating and stock price performance of companies that investors deem to -15- Table of Contents be comparable to Washington Trust, news reports relating to trends or developments in the credit, mortgage and housing markets as well as the financial services industry, and changes in government regulations. We are Subject to Operational Risk That Could Adversely Affect Our Business We are subject to certain operational risks, including, but not limited to, data processing system failures and errors, inadequate or failed internal processes, customer or employee fraud and catastrophic failures resulting from terrorist acts or natural disasters. We depend upon data processing, software, communication, and information exchange on a variety of computing platforms and networks and over the Internet. Despite instituted safeguards, we cannot be certain that all of its systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack or other technological difficulties or failures. If information security is breached or other technology difficulties or failures occur, information may be lost or misappropriated, services and operations may be interrupted and we could be exposed to claims from customers. While we maintain a system of internal controls and procedures, any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Changes in Laws and Regulations May Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations We are subject to extensive federal and state laws and regulations and are subject to supervision, regulation and examination by various federal and state bank regulatory agencies. The restrictions imposed by such laws and regulations limit the manner in which we may conduct business. There can be no assurance that any modification of these laws and regulations, or new legislation that may be enacted in the future, will not make compliance more difficult or expensive, or otherwise adversely affect our results of operations. See the section entitled "Supervision and Regulation" in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We are also subject to tax laws and regulations promulgated by the United States government and the states in which we operate. Changes to these laws and regulations or the interpretation of such laws and regulations by taxing authorities could impact future tax expense and the value of deferred tax assets. We May Need To Raise Additional Capital in the Future and Such Capital May Not Be Available When Needed. We may need to raise additional capital in the future to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and our financial performance. We cannot assure you that such capital will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Our inability to raise sufficient additional capital on acceptable terms when needed could adversely affect our businesses, financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. GUIDE 3 Statistical Disclosures The information required by Securities Act Guide 3 “Statistical Disclosure by Bank Holding Companies” is located on the pages noted below. Page I. Distribution of Assets, Liabilities and Stockholder Equity; Interest Rates and Interest Differentials 32-33 II. Investment Portfolio 38-43, 85 III. Loan Portfolio 44-51, 86 IV. Summary of Loan Loss Experience 51-54, 89 V. Deposits 32, 94 VI. Return on Equity and Assets 19 VII. Short-Term Borrowings 96 