Item 1A. Risk Factors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Item 2. Properties. Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders. Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-looking Statements. Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. Item 6. Selected Financial Data. Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure. Item 9A. Controls and Procedures. Item 9B. Other Information. Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance. Item 11. Executive Compensation. Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters. Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence. Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services. Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules. Signatures Index to Financial Statements and Schedules Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Consolidated Balance Sheets Consolidated Statements of Income Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity and Comprehensive Income Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Selected Quarterly Financial Data (unaudited) Exhibit Index EX-10.07 EX-21.01 EX-23.01 EX-31.01 EX-31.02 EX-32.01 EX-32.02 Page 2 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. BUSINESS. GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS Oceaneering International, Inc. is a global oilfield provider of engineered services and products primarily to the offshore oil and gas industry, with a focus on deepwater applications. Through the use of its applied technology expertise, Oceaneering also serves the defense and aerospace industries. Oceaneering was organized as a Delaware corporation in 1969 out of the combination of three diving service companies founded in the early 1960s. Since our establishment, we have concentrated on the development and marketing of underwater services and products requiring the use of advanced deepwater technology. We are one of the world’s largest underwater services contractors. The services and products we provide to the oil and gas industry include remotely operated vehicles, built-to-order specialty hardware, engineering and project management, subsea intervention services, nondestructive testing and inspection, manned diving and mobile offshore production systems. We have locations in the U.S. and 17 other countries. Our international operations, principally in the North Sea, West Africa, Brazil, Australia and Asia, accounted for approximately 54% of our revenue, or $1.1 billion, for the year ended December 31, 2008. Our business segments are contained within two businesses – services and products provided to the oil and gas industry (“Oil and Gas”) and all other services and products (“Advanced Technologies”). Our five business segments within the Oil and Gas business are Remotely Operated Vehicles (“ROVs”), Subsea Products, Subsea Projects, Inspection and Mobile Offshore Production Systems. We report our Advanced Technologies business as one segment. Unallocated expenses are those not associated with a specific business segment. These consist of expenses related to our incentive and deferred compensation plans, including restricted stock and bonuses, as well as other general expenses. Oil and Gas. The focus of our Oil and Gas business has been toward increasing our asset base for providing services and products for deepwater offshore operations and subsea completions. ROVs. Prior to 1995, we purchased most of our ROVs, which are submersible vehicles operated from the surface and widely used in the offshore oil and gas industry. However, in response to increased demand for more powerful systems operating in deeper water, we expanded our capabilities and established an in-house facility to design and build ROVs to meet the continued expansion of our ROV fleet. In December 2007, we moved our ROV manufacturing operations to a larger facility in Morgan City, LA. This facility consolidated several separate facilities we had in the area. We have built over 200 ROV systems, and we are producing all our new ROVs in-house. For a few years leading into 2005, except for units we have purchased from other ROV operators, we had kept the number of our work-class ROVs at a constant level and built new systems for replacement and upgrade of our existing fleet. In the first quarter of 2004, we completed the acquisition of 34 additional work-class ROVs and related business operations from Stolt Offshore S.A. In the third quarter of 2004, we acquired 10 work-class ROVs and related equipment and business operations in North and South America from Fugro N.V. During the four-year period ended December 31, 2008, in response to increased demand in the deepwater market, we added 85 ROVs, 82 that we built and three that we purchased from another company, and disposed of 26 ROVs. Subsea Products. Through our Oceaneering Intervention Engineering division, we construct a variety of built-to-order specialty subsea hardware. In 2003, we purchased Rotator AS, a designer and manufacturer of subsea control valves, topside control valves, subsea chemical injection valves and specialty control panels. In 2005, we acquired Grayloc Products, L.L.C. and subsidiary (together, “Grayloc”), an oil and gas industry supplier of high performance clamp connectors used in production manifold, flowline and valve installations. In 2007, we purchased Ifokus Engineering AS, a designer and manufacturer of specialty subsea products, particularly ROV tooling. In 2008, we purchased GTO Subsea AS (“GTO”), a Norwegian rental provider of specialized subsea dredging equipment, including ROV-deployed units, to the offshore oil and gas industry. Our Multiflex division provides various types of subsea umbilicals. Offshore operators use umbilicals to control subsea wellhead hydrocarbon flow rates, monitor downhole and wellhead conditions and perform chemical injection. They are also used to provide power and additional fluid transfer to other subsea processing hardware, including pumps and gas separation equipment. We entered this market in March 1994 through our purchase of the operating subsidiaries of Multiflex International Inc. During 1998, we constructed an umbilical plant in Brazil and relocated, modernized and increased the capabilities, including the production of steel tube umbilicals, of our umbilical manufacturing facility in Scotland. Both facilities began operations in the first half of 1999. During 2004, we moved our U.S. facility to a new location, which has additional capacity and the capability of producing steel tube umbilicals, and added steel tube capability to our plant in Brazil. In 2006, we increased the thermoplastic umbilical capability at our Scotland facility. Subsea Projects. Our Subsea Projects segment consists of our subsea installation, inspection, maintenance and repair services in the Gulf of Mexico and Angola utilizing a fleet of three owned and two chartered dynamically positioned deepwater vessels with integrated high-specification work-class ROVs Page 3 Table of Contents onboard, and shallow water diving vessels and assets. The deepwater vessels are equipped with thrusters that allow them to be dynamically positioned, which means they can maintain a constant position at a location without the use of anchors. They are used in pipeline or flowline tie-ins, pipeline crossings and subsea hardware interventions and installations. These vessels can carry and install coiled tubing or umbilicals required to bring subsea well completions into production (tie-back to production facilities). In 2006, we transferred our vessel The Performer from our Advanced Technologies segment to our Subsea Projects segment. In 2007, we upgraded its dynamic positioning system for deepwater inspection, maintenance and repair projects in the Gulf of Mexico. In 2008, we moved The Performer to Angola to work under a one-year contract. We occasionally charter vessels from others to augment our fleet. In 2006, we chartered a larger deepwater vessel, the Ocean Intervention III, for three years, with extension options for up to six additional years. The initial three-year term of the charter began in May 2007. We also chartered an additional larger deepwater vessel, the Olympic Intervention IV, for an initial term of five years, which began in the third quarter of 2008. We outfitted each of these larger deepwater vessels with two of our high-specification work-class ROVs, and we expect to utilize these vessels to perform subsea hardware installation and inspection, repair and maintenance projects, and to conduct well intervention services in the ultra-deep waters of the Gulf of Mexico. Inspection. Our Inspection segment provides nondestructive testing and inspection and integrity management and assessment services. We supply inspection services to customers required to obtain third-party inspections to satisfy contractual structural specifications, internal safety standards or regulatory requirements. In January 2003, we acquired OIS International Inspection plc. This acquisition approximately tripled the size of our Inspection services. Mobile Offshore Production Systems. We own two mobile offshore production systems: • the floating production, storage and offloading system Ocean Producer, which has been operating offshore West Africa since December 1991; and • the mobile offshore production system Ocean Legend, which has been operating offshore Western Australia since May 2001. We also purchased an oil tanker, the Ocean Pensador, in 2006 for possible conversion into a mobile offshore production or storage system in the event we obtained a suitable contract. The Ocean Pensador is currently laid up in Southeast Asia. In December 2003, we purchased a 50% equity interest in Medusa Spar LLC, which owns 75% of a production spar platform. Medusa Spar LLC’s revenue is derived from processing oil and gas production for a fee based on the volumes processed. The spar is currently located on the Medusa field in the Gulf of Mexico. Medusa Spar LLC has a contract covering production from the Medusa field and other nearby areas. Medusa Spar LLC financed its acquisition of its 75% interest in the production spar platform using approximately 50% debt and 50% equity from its equity holders. Medusa Spar LLC paid off the debt in 2008. For additional information regarding our interest in Medusa Spar LLC, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation — Results of Operations — Other” in Item 7 of Part II of this report. General. We intend to continue our strategy of acquiring, as opportunities arise, additional assets or businesses, to improve our market position or expand into related service and product lines, either directly through merger, consolidation or purchase, or indirectly through joint ventures. Advanced Technologies. In August 1992 and May 1993, we purchased two businesses that formed the basis of our Advanced Technologies segment. The first business designed, developed and operated robotic systems and ROVs specializing in non-oilfield markets and provided the basis for our expansion into civil works projects and commercial theme park animation. The second business designed, developed and fabricated spacecraft hardware and high-temperature insulation products. In 2003, we acquired Nauticos Corporation, a provider of marine services support to governmental and commercial customers. FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT SEGMENTS For financial information about our business segments, please see the tables in Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this report, which present revenue, income from operations, depreciation and amortization expense, equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates and capital expenditures for 2008, 2007 and 2006, and identifiable assets and goodwill by business segment as of December 31, 2008 and 2007. Page 4 Table of Contents DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS Oil and Gas Our Oil and Gas business consists of ROVs, Subsea Products, Subsea Projects, Inspection and Mobile Offshore Production Systems. ROVs. ROVs are submersible vehicles operated from the surface. We use our ROVs in the offshore oil and gas industry to perform a variety of underwater tasks, including drill support, installation and construction support, pipeline inspection and surveys, and subsea production facility operation and maintenance. ROVs may be outfitted with manipulators, sonar, video cameras, specialized tooling packages and other equipment or features to facilitate the performance of specific underwater tasks. At December 31, 2008, we owned 227 work-class ROVs. We believe we operate the largest fleet of ROVs in the world. We also believe we are the industry leader in providing ROV services for drill support and construction and field maintenance. ROV revenue: Percent of Total Amount Revenue (in thousands) 2008 $ 625,921 32 % 2007 531,381 30 % 2006 410,256 32 % Subsea Products. We construct a variety of built-to-order specialty subsea hardware to ISO 9001 quality requirements. These products include: • various types of subsea umbilicals utilizing thermoplastic hoses and steel tubes; • installation and workover control systems; • ROV tooling and work packages; • subsea and topside control valves; • subsea chemical injection valves; • blowout preventer control systems; • production control equipment; • clamp connectors; and • pipeline repair systems. We market these products under the trade names Oceaneering Multiflex, Oceaneering Intervention Engineering, Oceaneering Grayloc, Oceaneering Rotator and GTO Subsea. Offshore well operators use subsea umbilicals and production control equipment to control subsea wellhead hydrocarbon flow rates, monitor downhole and wellhead conditions and perform chemical injection. They are also used to provide power and additional fluid transfer to other subsea processing hardware, including pumps and gas separation equipment. ROV tooling and work packages provide the operational link between an ROV and permanently installed equipment located on the sea floor. Valves are used to control and meter hydrocarbon production flow rates and to inject chemicals into production streams at the wellhead to enhance well flow characteristics. Subsea Products revenue: Percent of Total Amount Revenue (in thousands) 2008 $649,857 33 % 2007 521,937 30 % 2006 364,510 29 % Page 5 Table of Contents Subsea Projects. We perform subsea intervention and hardware installation services in the Gulf of Mexico and Angola from three owned and two chartered multiservice deepwater vessels. These services include: subsea well tie-backs; pipeline/flowline tie-ins and repairs; pipeline crossings; umbilical and other subsea equipment installations; subsea intervention; and inspection, repair and maintenance activities. We supply commercial diving services to the oil and gas industry in the Gulf of Mexico using the traditional techniques of air, mixed gas and saturation diving, all of which use surface-supplied breathing gas. We do not use traditional diving techniques in water depths greater than 1,000 feet. We also use atmospheric diving systems, which enclose the operator in a surface pressure diving suit, in water depths up to 2,300 feet. Subsea Projects revenue: Percent of Total Amount Revenue (in thousands) 2008 $ 256,517 13 % 2007 257,752 15 % 2006 155,046 12 % Inspection. Through our Oceaneering Inspection division, we offer a wide range of inspection services to customers who are required to obtain third-party inspections to satisfy contractual structural specifications, internal safety standards or regulatory requirements. We provide these services principally to customers in the oil and gas, petrochemical and power generation industries. In the U.K., we provide Independent Inspection Authority services for the oil and gas industry, which includes first-pass integrity evaluation and assessment and nondestructive testing services. We use a variety of technologies to perform pipeline inspections, both onshore and offshore. Inspection revenue: Percent of Total Amount Revenue (in thousands) 2008 $ 249,109 12 % 2007 219,686 13 % 2006 169,014 13 % Mobile Offshore Production Systems. We own two mobile offshore production systems, the Ocean Legend and the Ocean Producer. We also undertake engineering and project management of projects related to mobile offshore production systems. We have managed the conversion of a jackup to a production unit and in-field life extension and modifications to a floating production storage and offloading system. We also perform engineering studies for customers evaluating field development projects. We own a 50% equity interest in Medusa Spar LLC, which owns 75% of a production spar platform. Medusa Spar LLC’s revenue is derived from processing oil and gas production for a fee, based on the volumes processed. The spar is currently located on the Medusa field in the Gulf of Mexico. Medusa Spar LLC has a contract covering production from the Medusa field and other nearby areas. We report our interest in this entity’s results in equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates. Page 6 Table of Contents Mobile Offshore Production Systems revenue: Percent of Total Amount Revenue (in thousands) 2008 $ 39,274 2 % 2007 50,103 3 % 2006 52,931 4 % Advanced Technologies Our Advanced Technologies segment provides engineering services and related manufacturing to meet a variety of industrial requirements, including ship and submarine husbandry, search and recovery, maintenance and repair, commercial theme park equipment and engineering services and products for the space industry. We do this in part by extending the use of existing assets and technology developed in oilfield operations to new applications. We work for customers having specialized requirements in underwater or other hazardous environments outside the oil and gas industry. We provide support for the U.S. Navy, including underwater operations, data analysis, development of ocean-related computer software, and the design and development of new underwater tools and systems. We also install and maintain mechanical systems for the Navy’s surface ships, submarines, piers, offshore structures and moorings. We provide products and services to NASA and aerospace prime contractors and we manage the underwater activities for astronaut training at NASA’s Neutral Buoyancy Laboratory. Our NASA-related activities substantially depend on continued government funding for space programs. Advanced Technologies revenue: Percent of Total Amount Revenue (in thousands) 2008 $ 156,743 8 % 2007 162,221 9 % 2006 128,441 10 % MARKETING Oil and Gas. Oil and gas exploration and development expenditures fluctuate from year to year. In particular, budgetary approval for more expensive drilling and production in deepwater, an area in which we have a high degree of focus, may be postponed or suspended during periods when exploration and production companies reduce their offshore capital spending. We market our ROVs, Subsea Products, Subsea Projects and Inspection services and products to domestic, international and foreign national oil and gas companies engaged in offshore exploration, development and production. We also provide services and products as a subcontractor to other oilfield service companies operating as prime contractors. Customers for these services typically award contracts on a competitive-bid basis. These contracts are typically less than one year in duration, although we enter into multi-year contracts from time to time. We market our Mobile Offshore Production Systems primarily to international and foreign national oil and gas companies. We offer systems for production and development of fields and prospects in areas lacking pipelines and processing infrastructure. Our systems can also be used for extended well testing and early production of marginal fields. Contracts are typically awarded on a competitive-bid basis, generally for periods of one or more years. In connection with the services we perform in our Oil and Gas business, we generally seek contracts that compensate us on a dayrate basis. Under dayrate contracts, the contractor provides the ROV or vessel and the required personnel to operate the unit and compensation is based on a rate per day for each day the unit is used. The typical dayrate depends on market conditions, the nature of the operations to be performed, the duration of the work, the equipment and services to be provided, the geographical areas involved and other variables. Dayrate contracts may also contain an alternate, lower dayrate that applies when a unit is moving to a new site or when operations are interrupted or restricted by equipment breakdowns, adverse weather or water conditions or other conditions beyond the contractor’s control. Some dayrate contracts provide for revision of the specified dayrates Page 7 Table of Contents in the event of material changes in the cost of labor or specified items. Sales contracts for our products are generally for a fixed price. Advanced Technologies. We market our marine services and related engineering services to government agencies, major defense contractors, NASA and NASA prime contractors, and to construction, theme parks and other industrial customers outside the energy sector. We also market to insurance companies, salvage associations and other customers who have requirements for specialized operations in deep water. Major Customers. Our top five customers in 2008, 2007 and 2006 accounted for 31%, 36% and 23%, respectively, of our consolidated revenue. For 2008 and 2007, all of our top five customers were oil and gas exploration and production companies served by our Oil and Gas business segments. For 2006, four of our top five customers were oil and gas exploration and production companies served by our Oil and Gas business segments. In 2007, BP plc and subsidiaries accounted for 14% of our revenue. No single customer accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenue in 2008 or 2006. While we do not depend on any one customer, the loss of one of our significant customers could, at least on a short-term basis, have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. RAW MATERIALS Most of the raw materials we use in our manufacturing operations, such as steel in various forms, electronic components and plastics, are available from many sources. However, some components we use to manufacture subsea umbilicals are available from limited sources. We can offer alternative materials or technologies in many cases with the exception of certain kinds of steel tube, where we are limited in the number of available suppliers, which depends on the requisite approval of our customers. While we have experienced some level of difficulty in obtaining certain kinds of steel tube in the past due to global demand outstripping capacity, an increase in supplier capacity, coupled with a drop in global demand, has resolved this issue, and we believe the situation is unlikely to recur in the near future. Additionally, the availability of certain grades of aramid fibers, which we use in the manufacture of our thermoplastic umbilicals, has historically been limited due to demand for military use. Presently, this situation does not exist, and we believe it is unlikely to return in the near future. COMPETITION Our businesses operate in highly competitive industry segments. Oil and Gas We are one of several companies that provide underwater services and specialty subsea hardware on a worldwide basis. We compete for contracts with companies that have worldwide operations, as well as numerous others operating locally in various areas. We believe that our ability to provide a wide range of underwater services and products, including technological applications in deeper water (greater than 1,000 feet), on a worldwide basis enables us to compete effectively in the oilfield exploration and development market. In some cases involving projects that require less sophisticated equipment, small companies have been able to bid for contracts at prices uneconomical to us. ROVs. We believe we are the world’s largest owner/operator of work-class ROVs employed in oil and gas related operations. We own 227 work-class ROVs, and estimate that this represents approximately 35% of the work-class ROVs utilized in the oil and gas service industry. We compete with several major companies on a worldwide basis and with numerous others operating locally in various areas. We have fewer competitors in deeper water depths, as more sophisticated equipment and technology is needed in deeper water. Competition for ROV services historically has been based on equipment availability, location of or ability to deploy the equipment, quality of service and price. The relative importance of these factors can vary from year to year based on market conditions. The ability to develop improved equipment and techniques and to attract and retain skilled personnel is also an important competitive factor in our markets. Subsea Products. Although there are many competitors offering either specialized products or operating in limited geographic areas, we believe we are one of a small number of companies that compete on a worldwide basis for the provision of thermoplastic and steel tube subsea control umbilical cables. Compared to current market demand, we are faced with overcapacity in the umbilical manufacturing market. Subsea Projects. We perform subsea intervention and hardware installation services in the Gulf of Mexico and Angola from three owned and two chartered multiservice deepwater vessels. We are one of many companies that offer these services. In general, our competitors can move Page 8 Table of Contents their vessels to the Gulf of Mexico from other locations with relative ease. We also have many competitors in the supply of our commercial diving services to the oil and gas industry in the Gulf of Mexico. Inspection. The worldwide inspection market consists of a wide range of inspection and certification requirements in many industries. We compete in only selected portions of this market. We believe that our broad geographic sales and operational coverage, long history of operations, technical reputation, application of various pipeline inspection technologies and accreditation to international quality standards enable us to compete effectively in our selected inspection services market segments. Mobile Offshore Production Systems. Although we are one of many companies that offer leased mobile offshore production systems, we believe we are positioned to compete in this market when price is not the determining factor. In the past several years, these services have been provided as more of a commodity, hampering our ability to provide specialized solutions at prices meeting our return objectives. Frequently, oil and gas companies use prequalification procedures that reduce the number of prospective bidders for their projects. In some countries, political considerations tend to favor local contractors. Advanced Technologies Engineering services is a very broad market with a large number of competitors. We compete in specialized areas in which we can combine our extensive program management experience, mechanical engineering expertise and the capability to continue the development of conceptual project designs into the manufacture of prototype equipment for customers. SEASONALITY AND BACKLOG A material amount of our consolidated revenue is generated from contracts for marine services in the Gulf of Mexico and the North Sea, which are usually more active from April through November compared to the rest of the year. Although most of our ROVs are engaged in providing drill support services, we have increased our ROV activity in offshore construction and production field maintenance. This change has increased the level of seasonality in our ROV operations, with the low point expected to be in the first quarter of the year. Our Inspection segment’s operations remain more active from April through November as compared to the rest of the year. Revenues in our Mobile Offshore Production Systems, Subsea Products and Advanced Technologies segments are generally not seasonal. The amounts of backlog orders we believed to be firm as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 were as follows (in millions): As of December 31, 2008 As of December 31, 2007 Total 1 + yr* Total 1 + yr* Oil and Gas ROVs $ 938 $ 536 $ 750 $ 414 Subsea Products 298 39 338 10 Subsea Projects 103 — 72 — Inspection 250 132 239 64 Mobile Offshore Production Systems 6 — 19 — Total Oil and Gas 1,595 707 1,418 488 Advanced Technologies 86 5 253 166 Total $ 1,681 $ 712 $ 1,671 $ 654 * Represents amounts that were not expected to be performed within one year. No material portion of our business is subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts by the U.S. government. PATENTS AND LICENSES We currently hold a number of U.S. and foreign patents and have numerous pending patent applications. We have acquired patents and licenses and granted licenses to others when we have considered it advantageous for us to do so. Although in the aggregate our patents and licenses are important to us, we do not regard any single patent or license or group of related patents or licenses as critical or essential to our business as a whole. In general, we depend on our technological capabilities and the application of know-how rather than patents and licenses in the conduct of our operations. Page 9 Table of Contents REGULATION Our operations are affected from time to time and in varying degrees by foreign and domestic political developments and foreign, federal and local laws and regulations, including those relating to: • construction and equipping of offshore production and other marine facilities; • marine vessel safety; • protection of the environment; • workplace health and safety; • taxation of foreign earnings and earnings of expatriate personnel; • license requirements for exportation of our equipment and technology; and • currency conversion and repatriation. In addition, our Oil and Gas business depends on the demand for our products and services from the oil and gas industry and, therefore, is affected by changing taxes, price controls and other laws and regulations relating to the oil and gas industry generally. The adoption of laws and regulations curtailing offshore exploration and development drilling for oil and gas for economic and other policy reasons would adversely affect our operations by limiting demand for our services. We cannot determine the extent to which new legislation, new regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations may affect our future operations. Our operations and properties are subject to a wide variety of increasingly complex and stringent foreign, federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those governing discharges into the air and water, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes, the remediation of soil and groundwater contaminated by hazardous substances and the health and safety of employees. Sanctions for noncompliance may include revocation of permits, corrective action orders, administrative or civil penalties and criminal prosecution. Some environmental laws provide for strict, joint and several liability for remediation of spills and other releases of hazardous substances, as well as damage to natural resources. In addition, companies may be subject to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as a result of alleged exposure to hazardous substances. These laws and regulations may also expose us to liability for the conduct of or conditions caused by others, or for our acts that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time such acts were performed. Environmental laws and regulations that apply to our operations include the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (each, as amended) and similar laws that provide for responses to, and liability for, releases of hazardous substances into the environment. Environmental laws and regulations also include similar foreign, state or local counterparts to the above-mentioned federal laws, which regulate air emissions, water discharges, hazardous substances and waste, and require public disclosure related to the use of various hazardous substances. Our operations are also governed by laws and regulations relating to workplace safety and worker health, primarily, in the U.S., the Occupational Safety and Health Act and regulations promulgated thereunder. Compliance with federal, state and local provisions regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or relating to the protection of the environment has not had a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. We cannot predict all of the environmental requirements or circumstances that will exist in the future but anticipate that environmental control and protection standards will become increasingly stringent and costly. Based on our experience to date, we do not currently anticipate any material adverse effect on our business or consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows as a result of future compliance with existing environmental laws and regulations. However, future events, such as changes in existing laws and regulations or their interpretation, more vigorous enforcement policies of regulatory agencies, or stricter or different interpretations of existing laws and regulations, may require additional expenditures by us, which may be material. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will not incur significant environmental compliance costs in the future. Our quality management systems are registered as being in conformance with ISO 9001:2000 and cover: • all our Oil and Gas products and services in the United Kingdom and Norway; • our Remotely Operated Vehicle operations in Brazil and Canada; • our Subsea Products segment; and • the Oceaneering Space Systems, Oceaneering Technologies, Entertainment and Marine Services units of our Advanced Technologies segment. ISO 9001 is an internationally recognized system for quality management established by the International Standards Organization, and the 2000 edition emphasizes customer satisfaction and continual improvement. Page 10 Table of Contents EMPLOYEES As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately 7,900 employees. Our workforce varies seasonally and peaks during the summer months. We consider our relations with our employees to be satisfactory. FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT GEOGRAPHIC AREAS For financial information about our geographic areas of operation, please see the tables in Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this report, which present revenue for 2008, 2007 and 2006 and long-lived assets as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 attributable to each of our geographic areas. For a discussion of risks attendant to our foreign operations, see the discussion in Item 1A, “Risk Factors” under the heading “Our international operations involve additional risks not associated with domestic operations.” AVAILABLE INFORMATION Our Web site address is www.oceaneering.com. We make available through this Web site under “Investor Relations — SEC Financial Reports,” free of charge, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, amendments to those reports and Section 16 filings by our directors and executive officers as soon as reasonably practicable after we, or our executive officers or directors, as the case may be, electronically file those materials with, or furnish those materials to, the SEC. You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information regarding the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains a Web site, www.sec.gov, which contains reports, proxy and other information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. We have adopted, and posted on our Web site: our corporate governance guidelines; a code of ethics for our Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers; and charters for the Audit, Nominating and Corporate Governance and Compensation Committees of our Board of Directors. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT. Executive Officers. The following information relates to our executive officers as of February 22, 2009: OFFICER EMPLOYEE NAME AGE POSITION SINCE SINCE T. Jay Collins 62 President and Chief Executive Officer and Director 1993 1993 M. Kevin McEvoy 58 Executive Vice President 1990 1979 Marvin J. Migura 58 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 1995 1995 George R. Haubenreich, Jr. 61 Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary 1988 1988 Philip D. Gardner 58 Senior Vice President — Subsea Products 2006 2004 W. Cardon Gerner 54 Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer 2006 2006 Each executive officer serves at the discretion of our Chief Executive Officer and our Board of Directors and is subject to reelection or reappointment each year after the annual meeting of our shareholders. We do not know of any arrangement or understanding between any of the above persons and any other person or persons pursuant to which he was selected or appointed as an officer. Business Experience. The following summarizes the business experience of our executive officers. Except where we otherwise indicate, each of these persons has held his current position with Oceaneering for at least the past five years. Page 11 Table of Contents T. Jay Collins, President and Chief Executive Officer, joined Oceaneering in 1993 as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. In 1995, he was appointed Executive Vice President — Oilfield Marine Services. He was appointed our President and Chief Operating Officer in 1998 and our Chief Executive Officer in 2006. He was elected a director of Oceaneering in March 2002. M. Kevin McEvoy, Executive Vice President, joined Oceaneering in 1984 when we acquired Solus Ocean Systems, Inc. Since 1984, he has held various senior management positions in each of our operating groups. He was appointed a Vice President in 1990, a Senior Vice President in 1998 and Executive Vice President in 2006. Marvin J. Migura, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, joined Oceaneering in 1995. From 1975 to 1994, he held various financial positions with Zapata Corporation, then a diversified energy services company, most recently as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from 1987 to 1994. George R. Haubenreich, Jr., Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary, joined Oceaneering in 1988. Philip D. Gardner, Senior Vice President — Subsea Products, joined Oceaneering in 2004. He served as President of Applied Hydraulic Systems Incorporated (“AHI”), an oilfield manufacturer and service company, from 1998 to 2002, when it was acquired by Oil States International, Inc. He continued to serve as President of AHI to 2004. He held various senior management positions with Weatherford International Ltd. from 1992 to 1998. W. Cardon Gerner, Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer, joined Oceaneering in September 2006. From 1999 to 2006, he held various financial positions with Service Corporation International, a global provider of death-care services, serving as Vice President Accounting from 2002 to 2006. He also served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Equity Corporation International 1995 to 1999. He is a Certified Public Accountant. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Investors in our company should consider the following matters, in addition to the other information we have provided in this report and the documents we incorporate by reference. We derive most of our revenue from companies in the offshore oil and gas industry, a historically cyclical industry with levels of activity that are significantly affected by the levels and volatility of oil and gas prices. We derive most of our revenue from customers in the offshore oil and gas exploration, development and production industry. The offshore oil and gas industry is a historically cyclical industry characterized by significant changes in the levels of exploration and development activities. Oil and gas prices, and market expectations of potential changes in those prices, significantly affect the levels of those activities. Worldwide political, economic and military events have contributed to oil and gas price volatility and are likely to continue to do so in the future. Any prolonged reduction in the overall level of offshore oil and gas exploration and development activities, whether resulting from changes in oil and gas prices or otherwise, could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in our segments within our Oil and Gas business. Some factors that have affected and are likely to continue affecting oil and gas prices and the level of demand for our services and products include the following: • worldwide demand for oil and gas; • general economic and business conditions and industry trends; • delays in deliveries of deepwater drilling rigs; • the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC, to set and maintain production levels and pricing; • the level of production by non-OPEC countries; • the ability of oil and gas companies to generate funds for capital expenditures; • domestic and foreign tax policy; • laws and governmental regulations that restrict exploration and development of oil and gas in various offshore jurisdictions; • rapid technological changes; • the political environment of oil-producing regions; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; and • overall economic conditions. Our international operations involve additional risks not associated with domestic operations. A significant portion of our revenue is attributable to operations in foreign countries. These activities accounted for approximately Page 12 Table of Contents 54% of our consolidated revenue in 2008. Risks associated with our operations in foreign areas include risks of: • regional and global economic downturns. • war and civil disturbances or other risks that may limit or disrupt markets; • expropriation, confiscation or nationalization of assets; • renegotiation or nullification of existing contracts; • foreign exchange restrictions; • foreign currency fluctuations; • foreign taxation, including the application and interpretation of tax laws; • the inability to repatriate earnings or capital; • changing political conditions; • changing foreign and domestic monetary policies; and • social, political, military and economic situations in foreign areas where we do business and the possibilities of war, other armed conflict or terrorist attacks. Additionally, in some jurisdictions we are subject to foreign governmental regulations favoring or requiring the awarding of contracts to local contractors or requiring foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. These regulations may adversely affect our ability to compete. Our exposure to the risks we described above varies from country to country. In recent periods, political instability and civil unrest in West Africa, particularly Nigeria, and Indonesia have been our greatest concerns. There is a risk that a continuation or worsening of these conditions could materially and adversely impact our future business, operations, financial condition and results of operations. Of our total consolidated revenue for 2008, we generated approximately 14% from our operations in West Africa. Our backlog is subject to unexpected adjustments and cancellations and is, therefore, an uncertain indicator of our future revenues and earnings. There can be no assurance that the revenues projected in our backlog will be realized or, if realized, will result in profits. Because of project cancellations or potential changes in the scope or schedule of our customers’ projects, we cannot predict with certainty when or if backlog will be realized. In addition, even where a project proceeds as scheduled, it is possible that contracted parties may default and fail to pay amounts owed to us. Material delays, suspensions, cancellations or payment defaults could materially affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Reductions in our backlog due to cancellation by a customer or for other reasons would adversely affect, potentially to a material extent, the revenues and earnings we actually receive from contracts included in our backlog. Some of the contracts in our backlog provide for cancellation fees in the event customers cancel projects. These cancellation fees usually provide for reimbursement of our out-of-pocket costs, revenues for work performed prior to cancellation and a varying percentage of the profits we would have realized had the contract been completed. Many of our ROV contracts have 30-day notice termination clauses. We typically have no contractual right upon cancellation to the total revenues reflected in our backlog. If we experience significant project terminations, suspensions or scope adjustments to contracts reflected in our backlog, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely impacted. The global financial crisis may impact our business and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict. The continuing credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial system may have an impact on our business and our financial condition. In particular, the cost of capital has increased substantially while the availability of funds from the capital markets has diminished significantly. Accordingly, our ability to access the capital markets may be restricted or be available only on terms we do not consider favorable. Limited access to the capital markets could adversely impact our ability to take advantage of business opportunities or react to changing economic and business conditions and could adversely impact our ability to continue our growth strategy. Ultimately we may be required to reduce our future capital expenditures substantially. Such a reduction could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If one or more of the lenders under our revolving credit facility were to become unable or unwilling to perform their obligations under that facility, our borrowing capacity could be reduced. Our inability to borrow additional amounts under our revolving credit facility could limit our ability to fund our future operations and growth. The current economic situation could have an impact on our suppliers and our customers, causing them to fail to meet their obligations to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, income from operations and cash flows. The uncertainty and volatility of the global financial crisis may have further impacts on our business and our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows that we currently cannot predict or anticipate. Page 13 Table of Contents Our business strategy contemplates future acquisitions. Acquisitions of other businesses or assets present various risks and uncertainties. We may pursue growth through the acquisition of businesses or assets that will enable us to broaden our product and service offerings and expand into new markets. We may be unable to implement this element of our growth strategy if we cannot identify suitable businesses or assets, reach agreement on potential strategic acquisitions on acceptable terms or for other reasons. Moreover, acquisitions involve various risks, including: • difficulties relating to the assimilation of personnel, services and systems of an acquired business and the assimilation of marketing and other operational capabilities; • challenges resulting from unanticipated changes in customer relationships subsequent to acquisition; • additional financial and accounting challenges and complexities in areas such as tax planning, treasury management, financial reporting and internal controls; • assumption of liabilities of an acquired business, including liabilities that were unknown at the time the acquisition transaction was negotiated; • diversion of management’s attention from day-to-day operations; • failure to realize anticipated benefits, such as cost savings and revenue enhancements; • potentially substantial transaction costs associated with acquisitions; and • potential impairment resulting from the overpayment for an acquisition. Future acquisitions may require us to obtain additional equity or debt financing, which may not be available on attractive terms. Moreover, to the extent an acquisition transaction financed by non-equity consideration results in goodwill, it will reduce our tangible net worth, which might have an adverse effect on credit availability. Additionally, an acquisition may bring us into businesses we have not previously conducted and expose us to additional business risks that are different from those we have previously experienced. The loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel, or our failure to attract, assimilate and retain trained personnel in the future, could disrupt our operations and result in loss of revenues. Our success depends on the continued active participation of our executive officers and key operating personnel. The unexpected loss of the services of any one of these persons could adversely affect our operations. Our operations require the services of employees having the technical training and experience necessary to obtain the proper operational results. As a result, our operations depend, to a considerable extent, on the continuing availability of such personnel. If we should suffer any material loss of personnel to competitors or be unable to employ additional or replacement personnel with the requisite level of training and experience to adequately operate our equipment, our operations could be adversely affected. While we believe our wage rates are competitive and our relationships with our employees are satisfactory, a significant increase in the wages paid by other employers could result in a reduction in our workforce, increases in wage rates, or both. If either of these events occurred for a significant period of time, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. Employee, agent or partner misconduct or our overall failure to comply with laws or regulations could weaken our ability to win contracts, which could result in reduced revenues and profits. Misconduct, fraud, non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations, or other improper activities by one or more of our employees, agents or partners could have a significant negative impact on our business and reputation. Such misconduct could include the failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), which prohibits companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials, as well as the failure to comply with government procurement regulations, regulations on lobbying or similar activities, regulations pertaining to the internal controls over financial reporting and various other applicable laws or regulations. The precautions we take to prevent and detect misconduct, fraud or non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations may not be effective, and we could face unknown risks or losses. Our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations or acts of misconduct could subject us to fines, penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Our businesses operate in highly competitive industry segments. Some of our competitors or potential competitors have greater financial or other resources than we have. Our operations may be adversely affected if our current competitors or new market entrants introduce new products or services with better features, performance, prices or other characteristics than those of our Page 14 Table of Contents products and services. This factor is significant to our segments’ businesses, particularly in the segments within our Oil and Gas business, where capital investment is critical to our ability to compete. Our offshore oilfield operations involve a variety of operating hazards and risks that could cause losses. Our operations are subject to the hazards inherent in the offshore oilfield business. These include blowouts, explosions, fires, collisions, capsizings and severe weather conditions. These hazards could result in personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment, pollution or environmental damage and suspension of operations. We may incur substantial liabilities or losses as a result of these hazards. While we maintain insurance protection against some of these risks, and seek to obtain indemnity agreements from our customers requiring the customers to hold us harmless from some of these risks, our insurance and contractual indemnity protection may not be sufficient or effective to protect us under all circumstances or against all risks. The occurrence of a significant event not fully insured or indemnified against or the failure of a customer to meet its indemnification obligations to us could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Laws and governmental regulations may add to our costs or adversely affect our operations. Our business is affected by changes in public policy and by federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the offshore oil and gas industry. Offshore oil and gas exploration and production operations are affected by tax, environmental, safety and other laws, by changes in those laws, application or interpretation of existing laws, and changes in related administrative regulations. It is also possible that these laws and regulations may in the future add significantly to our operating costs or those of our customers or otherwise directly or indirectly affect our operations. Environmental laws and regulations can increase our costs, and our failure to comply with those laws and regulations can expose us to significant liabilities. Risks of substantial costs and liabilities related to environmental compliance issues are inherent in our operations. Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the generation, storage, handling, emission, transportation and discharge of materials into the environment. Permits are required for the operation of various facilities, and those permits are subject to revocation, modification and renewal. Governmental authorities have the power to enforce compliance with their regulations, and violations are subject to fines, injunctions or both. In some cases, those governmental requirements can impose liability for the entire cost of cleanup on any responsible party without regard to negligence or fault and impose liability on us for the conduct of or conditions others have caused, or for our acts that complied with all applicable requirements when we performed them. It is possible that other developments, such as stricter environmental laws and regulations, and claims for damages to property or persons resulting from our operations, would result in substantial costs and liabilities. Our insurance policies and the contractual indemnity protection we seek to obtain from our customers may not be sufficient or effective to protect us under all circumstances or against all risks involving compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Our internal controls may not be sufficient to achieve all stated goals and objectives. Our internal controls and procedures were developed through a process in which our management applied its judgment in assessing the costs and benefits of such controls and procedures, which, by their nature, can provide only reasonable assurance regarding the control objectives. The design of any system of internal controls and procedures is based, in part, on various assumptions about the likelihood of future events. We cannot assure you that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions, regardless of how remote. The use of estimates could result in future adjustments to our assets, liabilities and results of operations. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires that our management make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expense during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. We may issue preferred stock whose terms could adversely affect the voting power or value of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our shareholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such preferences, powers and relative, participating, optional and other rights, including preferences over our common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our board of directors may determine. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could adversely impact the voting power or value of our common stock. For example, we might grant holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of our directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the Page 15 Table of Contents right to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we might assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of the common stock. Provisions in our corporate documents and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control of our company, even if that change would be beneficial to our shareholders. The existence of some provisions in our corporate documents and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control of our company, even if that change would be beneficial to our shareholders. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may make acquiring control of our company difficult, including: • provisions relating to the classification, nomination and removal of our directors; • provisions regulating the ability of our shareholders to bring matters for action at annual meetings of our shareholders; • provisions requiring the approval of the holders of at least 80% of our voting stock for a broad range of business combination transactions with related persons; and • the authorization given to our board of directors to issue and set the terms of preferred stock. In addition, we have adopted a shareholder rights plan that would cause extreme dilution to any person or group who attempts to acquire a significant interest in Oceaneering without advance approval of our board of directors, while the Delaware General Corporation Law would impose some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 