D. Risk Factors You should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this Form 20-F, including the following risk factors, when investing in our securities. The risks described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we presently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. We could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. This Form 20-F also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by such forward-looking statements. The Tysabri Transaction may not complete On February 6, 2013, we announced that we have entered into an asset purchase agreement with Biogen Idec International Holding Ltd. (“Biogen International”), an affiliate of Biogen Idec (the “Asset Purchase Agreement”), pursuant to which we agreed to transfer to Biogen International all of our interest in the intellectual property and other assets related to the development, manufacturing and commercialization of Tysabri and other products licensed under our existing Collaboration Agreement with Biogen Idec and its affiliates. On the closing of the Tysabri Transaction, our existing Collaboration Agreement will terminate and Biogen International and its affiliates will have sole authority over, and exclusive worldwide rights to, the development, manufacturing and commercialization of Tysabri. Under the terms of the Asset Purchase Agreement, Biogen International will make a payment of $3.25 billion to us at closing and we will receive royalties on all future global net sales of Tysabri. During the first 12 months following the closing, we will receive a royalty of 12% on all global net sales of Tysabri. Thereafter, we will receive a royalty of 18% on annual global net sales up to and including $2.0 billion and a royalty of 25% on annual global net sales above $2 billion. The Tysabri Transaction is expected to close in the first half of 2013, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, as described in further detail below. The closing of the Tysabri Transaction is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain conditions, including the following: (i) the waiting periods and approvals necessary to permit the closing under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended (the “HSR Act”), the Spanish Competition Act of 2007 and any similar merger control legislation of any other jurisdiction where Biogen International has determined, after consultation with Elan, a filing is required, have expired or terminated or been obtained, (ii) there is no governmental order that prevents the closing of the Tysabri Transaction, would result in rescission of the Tysabri Transaction following the closing, would limit the ability of Biogen International to operate the Tysabri business following the closing, would compel Biogen International to dispose of any assets or would require us or Biogen International to pay a penalty or fine, (iii) there is no pending action by a governmental authority that seeks, or by any other person that seeks and would reasonably be expected (in the reasonable good faith determination of Biogen International) to result in, a governmental order that prevents the closing of the Tysabri Transaction, would result in rescission of the Tysabri Transaction following the closing, would limit the ability of Biogen International to operate the Tysabri business following closing, would compel Biogen International to dispose of any assets or would require us or Biogen International to pay a penalty or fine, (iv) certain material third party consents have been received, (v) there has been no event or occurrence that has resulted in a Tysabri Material Adverse Change (as defined in the Asset Purchase Agreement and described below), (vi) we have terminated certain services provided to us by Prothena Corporation plc, which owns a substantial portion of our former drug discovery business platform, which we separated from our business in December 2012, as described in Item 4.B “Business Overview,” and (vii) we have received and delivered to Biogen International a copy of a written agreement from the Office of Inspector General of the United States Department of Health and Human Services providing that our Corporate Integrity Agreement relating to the Zonegran matter will not apply to Biogen International or any of its products following the closing of the Tysabri Transaction. 6 Table of Contents The Asset Purchase Agreement may be terminated by Biogen International prior to the closing date of the Tysabri Transaction if (i) the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period under the HSR Act has not occurred within 75 days following the signing date, (ii) the waiting periods and approvals necessary to permit the closing under the Spanish Competition Act of 2007 and any similar merger control legislation of any other jurisdiction where Biogen International has determined, after consultation with Elan, a filing is required, have not expired or terminated or been obtained within 100 days following the signing date or (iii) a Tysabri Material Adverse Change has occurred during the period between the signing date and the closing date of the Tysabri Transaction. The Asset Purchase Agreement may be terminated by either Biogen International or us at any time prior to the closing if (i) a final nonappealable governmental order has been issued permanently enjoining or otherwise prohibiting the Tysabri Transaction or (ii) the closing has not occurred on or before December 31, 2013. For purposes of the Asset Purchase Agreement, a Tysabri Material Adverse Change is defined as any event, change, fact, condition, circumstance or occurrence that has had or would reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on Tysabri sales or on the assets to be acquired by Biogen International in the Tysabri Transaction, subject to certain exceptions. In addition, the following events will be deemed to be a Tysabri Material Adverse Change: (i) changes in governmental regulations or third party payors’ reimbursement policies or the imposition of any health care cost containment measures unless, in the aggregate, the worldwide net revenues for Tysabri would not have decreased by more the 7.5% during the 12-month period immediately preceding such changes or measures, had those changes or measures been in effect during that period or (ii) the occurrence of PML in Tysabri-treated patients at rates that equal or exceed certain thresholds specified in the Asset Purchase Agreement (a material increase in PML occurrences in Tysabri-treated patients who meet certain risk profiles would result in a Tysabri Material Adverse Change and, therefore, permit Biogen International to terminate the Asset Purchase Agreement). If the Tysabri Transaction is not consummated as a result of (i) Biogen International terminating the Asset Purchase Agreement because (a) the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period under the HSR Act has not occurred within 75 days following the signing date or (b) the waiting periods and approvals necessary to permit the closing under the Spanish Competition Act of 2007 and any similar merger control legislation of any other jurisdiction where Biogen International has determined, after consultation with Elan, a filing is required, have not expired or terminated or been obtained within 100 days following the signing date, (ii) either us or Biogen International terminating the Asset Purchase Agreement because a final nonappealable governmental order has been issued permanently enjoining or otherwise prohibiting the Tysabri Transaction, or (iii) either us or Biogen International terminating the Asset Purchase Agreement because the closing of the Tysabri Transaction has not occurred on or before December 31, 2013 and, at the time of termination, all waiting periods and approvals necessary to permit the closing under the HSR Act, the Spanish Competition Act of 2007 and any similar merger control legislation of any other jurisdiction have not expired or terminated or been obtained (collectively, the “Regulatory Conditions”), our existing Collaboration Agreement will be automatically amended to eliminate provisions of the Collaboration Agreement that would give each party the right to purchase the other party’s interest in Tysabri in the event of either a change of control of the other party or the other party being required to dispose of its interest in Tysabri by a governmental authority. We cannot guarantee whether the closing conditions for the Tysabri Transaction will be satisfied or whether any of the conditions under which Biogen International is permitted to terminate the Asset Purchase Agreement will occur. As a result, we cannot assure you that the Tysabri Transaction will be completed on a timely basis, or at all. If the closing conditions to the Tysabri Transaction are not satisfied or waived, or if the transaction is not completed for any other reason, our existing Collaboration Agreement with Biogen Idec will continue, subject to the elimination, under certain circumstance, of the change of control and mandatory disposition provisions of the Collaboration Agreement. However, the market price of our ordinary shares could decline and we would nevertheless remain liable for the significant expenses we have incurred related to the Tysabri Transaction. 7 Table of Contents We are substantially dependent on revenues from Tysabri. Sales of our only marketed product Tysabri represented approximately 100% of our total continuing and discontinued revenues during 2012. If the Tysabri Transaction is consummated, we will no longer have any commercialized products and we will continue to be dependent on sales of Tysabri through a future royalty interest based on Tysabri global net sales. Any negative developments relating to Tysabri, such as safety, efficacy or reimbursement issues, the introduction or greater acceptance of competing products, including biosimilars, or adverse regulatory or legislative developments may reduce our revenues and adversely affect our results of operations. New competing products for use in multiple sclerosis (MS) are beginning to (or will soon) enter the market, including BG-12 for which Biogen Idec has filed for marketing approval in the United States and Europe. If any of these competing products have a similar or more attractive profile in terms of efficacy, convenience or safety, future sales of Tysabri could be limited, which would reduce our revenues. If we complete the Tysabri Transaction we will exercise no control over sales of Tysabri and will be totally dependent on the efforts of Biogen Idec to realize on our royalty interest. Tysabri’s sales growth cannot be assured given the significant restrictions on its use and the significant safety warnings in the label, including the risk of developing PML, a serious brain infection. The risk of developing PML increases with prior immunosuppressant (IS) use, which may cause patients who have previously received IS or their physicians to refrain from using or prescribing Tysabri. The risk of developing PML also increases with longer treatment duration, with limited experience beyond four years. This may cause prescribing physicians or patients to suspend treatment with Tysabri. In addition, the risk of developing PML is heightened when a patient has anti-JC virus (JCV) antibodies. In January 2012, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved a product label change for Tysabri that identifies anti-JCV antibody status as a risk factor for PML. This risk had already been incorporated into the European label for Tysabri in June 2011. Physicians have discontinued treatment and are likely to continue to discontinue treatment with Tysabri in patients who test positive for JCV antibodies. Increased incidence of PML could limit sales growth, prompt regulatory review, require significant changes to the label or result in market withdrawal. Additional regulatory restrictions on the use of Tysabri or safety-related label changes, including enhanced risk management programs, whether as a result of additional cases of PML or otherwise, may significantly reduce expected revenues and require significant expense and management time to address the associated legal and regulatory issues. In addition, ongoing or future clinical trials involving Tysabri, efforts at stratifying patients into groups with lower or higher risk for developing PML and the commercial availability of the JCV antibody assay may have an adverse impact on prescribing behavior and reduce sales of Tysabri. Further, the utility of the JCV antibody assay may be diminished as a result of the assay’s false negative rate and because a patient who tests negative for JCV antibodies may be infected by the JCV after testing. Any or all of the above factors could lead to volatility in the number of patients who begin or continue to use Tysabri or discontinue the use of Tysabri in any period. If the Tysabri Transaction is consummated we will no longer have any commercialized products and our revenue will continue to be dependent on sales of Tysabri, the development, manufacturing and commercialization of which will be controlled exclusively by Biogen Idec with no participation by us. If the Tysabri Transaction is consummated, our revenues will be generated primarily through a royalty interest based on the global net sales of Tysabri. Thus, any future revenues from the commercialization of Tysabri will depend solely upon the commercialization efforts of Biogen Idec. While we will be entitled to royalties based on the global net sales of Tysabri, we will not have any control over, and Biogen Idec will not be subject to, any express contractual standard related to the level of effort or resources that Biogen Idec will devote to the commercialization of Tysabri. In addition, Biogen Idec markets a competing MS therapy, Avonex®, and has another potentially competitive MS therapy (BG-12) awaiting regulatory approval in the United States and Europe. As a result of these competitive drugs, Biogen Idec’s management attention and resources may be diverted from Tysabri and Biogen Idec’s financial interest in the marketing of Tysabri may not be wholly aligned with ours. If Biogen Idec does not allocate sufficient resources or effort to its commercialization of Tysabri, our financial performance and prospects may be adversely affected. Following the Tysabri Transaction, we may be deemed an Investment Company and subjected to related restrictions under the Investment Company Act of 1940. The regulatory scope of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the “Investment Company Act”), which was enacted principally for the purpose of regulating vehicles for pooled investments in securities, extends generally to companies engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities. The Investment Company Act may, however, also be deemed to be applicable to a company that does not intend to be characterized as an investment company but that, nevertheless, engages in activities that may be deemed to be within the definitional scope of certain provisions of the Investment Company Act. We believe that our anticipated principal activities following the Tysabri Transaction will not subject us to regulation 8 Table of Contents under the Investment Company Act. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that we will not be deemed to be an investment company. If we are deemed to be an investment company, we would intend to rely on Rule 3a-2 under the Investment Company Act, which provides a safe harbor exemption from investment company status, not to exceed one year, for companies that have a bona fide intent to be engaged in an excepted activity but that temporarily do not to meet the requirements for another exemption from registration as an investment company. If, following expiration of such safe harbor, we are deemed to be an investment company, we may become subject to certain restrictions relating to our activities (unless we determine to seek and are successful in obtaining exemptive relief from the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission), including restrictions on the nature of our investments and the issuance of securities. In addition, the Investment Company Act imposes certain requirements on companies deemed to be within its regulatory scope, including registration as an investment company, adoption of a specific form of corporate structure and compliance with certain reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy, disclosure and other rules and regulations. In the event of our characterization as an investment company, our inability to satisfy such regulatory requirements, whether on a timely basis or at all, would, under certain circumstances, have a material adverse effect on us. If we were determined to be a PFIC, U.S. Tax Residents could suffer adverse tax consequences. We believe that we are not currently a PFIC and, based on our management’s current projections of our future income and assets, and the anticipated use of our cash, that we will not become a PFIC in the foreseeable future, including following consummation of the Tysabri Transaction. However, our status in any taxable year will depend on our assets and activities in each year, and because this is a factual determination made annually after the end of each taxable year, there can be no assurance that we will not be considered a PFIC for the current taxable year or any future taxable year. If we are treated as a PFIC for any taxable year in which a United States taxpayer (U.S. tax resident) holds ordinary shares or ADSs, certain adverse consequences could apply, including that gain on the sale of ADS or ordinary shares could be treated as ordinary income and subject to additional tax in the nature of interest, distributions on the ADS or ordinary shares would fail to qualify as “qualified dividend income” subject to reduced rates and could be subject to additional tax in the nature of interest, and additional reporting requirements would apply. U.S. tax residents should consult with their tax advisors as to the effect of these rules. Our long-term success depends, in part, on the successful development and commercialization of other product candidates and we may not be successful in advancing ELND005 or in identifying, in-licensing and acquiring clinical stage product candidates on acceptable terms, or at all. Our long-term viability and growth will depend, in part, on the successful development and commercialization of other products. On August 6, 2012, Johnson & Johnson issued a press release announcing that Janssen Alzheimer Immunotherapy (Janssen AI) and Pfizer had determined to discontinue the development of bapineuzumab intravenous in mild to moderate Alzheimer’s disease. We have an approximate 25% economic interest in the AIP collaboration between Janssen AI and Pfizer, which includes bapineuzumab. We currently have only one product candidate in clinical trials, ELND005 (Scyllo-inositol). In 2012, we commenced Phase 2 clinical trials of ELND005 in two indications. In a previous Phase 2 clinical trial of ELND005 for mild to moderate Alzheimer’s disease, ELND005 failed to meet the trial’s primary endpoints. Following the separation of a substantial portion of our drug discovery business platform into a new publicly traded company incorporated in Ireland and the discontinuation of our remaining early stage research activities, we have no material pre-clinical programs or capability. As a result, other than ongoing and future clinical development of Tysabri (which will be the sole responsibility of Biogen Idec from and after consummation of the Tysabri Transaction), clinical development of ELND005 and our approximate 25% economic interest in the AIP collaboration, our development and commercialization of future products will be dependent on the in-licensing or acquisition of products or clinical stage product candidates. We may not be successful at identifying, in-licensing or acquiring products or clinical stage product candidates on acceptable terms, or at all. Product development and commercialization are very expensive and involve a high degree of risk. Success in preclinical work or early stage clinical trials does not ensure that later stage or larger scale clinical trials will be successful. Even if later stage clinical trials are successful, product candidates may not receive marketing approval if regulatory authorities disagree with our view of the data or require additional studies. 9 Table of Contents We have substantial cash needs and we may not be successful in generating or otherwise obtaining the funds necessary to meet our cash needs. As of December 31, 2012, we had $600.0 million of debt falling due in October 2019 (2011: $624.5 million due in October 2016). As of December 31, 2012, we had total cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash and cash equivalents and investments of $624.1 million (2011: $298.1 million). If the Tysabri Transaction is consummated, revenues and cash flows will be substantially reduced, which may negatively impact us. Our indebtedness could have important adverse consequences to us. For example, it does or could: • Increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • Require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund research and development (R&D) (including our funding commitments to Janssen AI (for the AIP), working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments and other general corporate purposes); • Cause us to elect to redeem our indebtedness at a premium in order to avoid potential debt covenant breaches; • Limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets in which we operate; • Place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • Limit our ability to borrow additional funds. We estimate that we have sufficient cash, liquid resources and current assets and investments to meet our liquidity requirements for at least the next 12 months. Our future operating performance will be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and business conditions and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Even if our future operating performance does meet our expectations, including future Tysabri revenues, we may need to obtain additional funds to meet our longer term liquidity requirements. We may not be able to obtain those funds on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, which would force us to curtail programs, sell assets or otherwise take steps to reduce expenses or cease operations. Any of these steps may have a material adverse effect on our prospects. Restrictive covenants in our debt instruments restrict or prohibit our ability to engage in or enter into a variety of transactions and could otherwise adversely affect us. The agreement governing our outstanding indebtedness contains various restrictive covenants that limit our financial, operating and strategic flexibility. The covenants do not require us to maintain or adhere to any specific financial ratio, but do restrict within limits our ability to, among other things: • Incur additional debt; • Create liens; • Enter into transactions with affiliates, except on an arm’s-length basis; • Enter into certain types of investment transactions; • Engage in certain asset sales or sale and leaseback transactions; • Pay dividends; and • Consolidate, merge with, or sell all or substantially all of its assets to another entity. The breach of any of these covenants may result in a default, which could result in the indebtedness under the agreement becoming immediately due and payable. If this were to occur, we might not be able to pay our debts or obtain sufficient funds to refinance them on reasonable terms, or at all. Alternatively, we might elect (assuming we then had sufficient cash resources) to redeem our outstanding indebtedness at a premium and discharge the agreement governing our indebtedness as we are permitted to do 10 Table of Contents thereunder, which would consume significant cash resources and could materially restrict our financial, operating and strategic flexibility. In addition, complying with these covenants may make it more difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategies and compete against companies not subject to similar constraints. We depend on Janssen AI, in addition to Pfizer, for the clinical development and potential commercialization of AIP products. As a result of the discontinuation of further development of bapineuzumab intravenous in mild to moderate Alzheimer’s disease, we may never realize any return on our approximate 25% economic interest in the AIP collaboration. Johnson & Johnson exercises effective control over Janssen AI and, consequently, over our economic interest in the AIP collaboration. The interests of Johnson & Johnson may not be aligned with our interests. On August 6, 2012, Johnson & Johnson issued a press release announcing that Janssen AI and Pfizer had determined to discontinue the development of bapineuzumab intravenous in mild to moderate Alzheimer’s disease based on the co-primary clinical endpoints not being met in the Janssen AI-led Phase 3 clinical studies (Studies 301 and 302). We have a 49.9% shareholding in Janssen AI, which represents an approximate 25% economic interest in the AIP collaboration. As a result of the discontinuation, we may never realize any return on our economic interest in the AIP collaboration, although we are nonetheless required to satisfy our commitment to fund up to $200.0 million to Janssen AI by the end of 2014. Following the provision of $29.9 million of funding to Janssen AI in January 2013, we have a remaining funding commitment of $93.2 million to Janssen AI. We recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $117.3 million on our equity method investment in Janssen AI during 2012, representing the full initial estimated value of our 49.9% share of the Janssen AI AIP assets. Our industry is highly competitive. Our principal pharmaceutical competitors consist of major international companies, many of which are larger and have greater financial resources, technical staff, manufacturing, R&D and marketing capabilities than us. We also compete with smaller research companies and generic and biosimilar drug manufacturers. In addition Biogen Idec, markets a competing MS therapy, Avonex and has another potentially competitive MS therapy (BG-12) awaiting regulatory approval in the United States and Europe. As a result of these competitive drugs, Biogen Idec’s management attention and resources may be diverted from Tysabri and Biogen Idec’s financial interest in the marketing of Tysabri may not be wholly aligned with ours. If the Tysabri Transaction with Biogen Idec is consummated, we will exercise no control over sales of Tysabri and will be totally dependent on Biogen Idec to realize our royalty interest. A drug may be subject to competition from alternative therapies during the period of patent protection or regulatory exclusivity and, thereafter, it may be subject to further competition from generic or biosimilar products. Tysabri is covered by a number of issued patents and pending patent applications in the United States and many other countries. A primary U.S. patent covering the humanized antibody expires in 2020. Additional U.S. patents and pending patent applications of Elan and/or our collaborator, Biogen Idec, covering (i) methods of use, including the use of Tysabri to treat MS, irritable bowel disease and a variety of other indications, and (ii) methods of manufacturing Tysabri, generally expire between 2013 and 2024. Outside the United States, patents and pending patent applications covering Tysabri, methods of using Tysabri and methods of manufacturing Tysabri generally expire between 2013 and 2024. If the Tysabri Transaction closes we will transfer all of our rights in Tysabri IP and other assets related to Tysabri to Biogen Idec. The price of pharmaceutical products typically declines as competition increases. Tysabri sales may be very sensitive to additional new competing products (in particular, from oral therapies approved or filed for U.S. and European approvals or under development such as Biogen Idec’s BG-12). If these products have a similar or more attractive overall profile in terms of efficacy, convenience and/or safety, future sales of Tysabri could be adversely impacted. Generic and biosimilar competitors do not have to bear the same level of R&D and other expenses associated with bringing a new branded product to market. As a result, they can charge less for a competing version of a product. Managed care organizations (MCOs) typically favor generics over brand name drugs, and governments encourage, or under some circumstances mandate, the use of generic products, thereby reducing the sales of branded products that are no longer patent protected. Governmental and other pressures toward the dispensing of generic or biosimilar products may rapidly and significantly reduce, or slow the growth in, the sales and profitability of any products not protected by patents or regulatory exclusivity and may adversely affect our future results and financial condition. The launch of competitive products, including generic or biosimilar versions of products, has had and may have a material and adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents If the Tysabri Transaction is consummated we have agreed that we will not research, develop or commercialize products that act through or on Alpha 4 Integrin, such as Tysabri. Our inability to compete in this area may materially and adversely affect our prospects. We have no material pre-clinical programs or capabilities. Our competitive position depends, in part, upon our ability to acquire or develop innovative, cost-effective new products, and to protect all of this with patents and other IP rights. If we fail to maintain our competitive position, then our revenues and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to obtain or enforce patent rights, trade secrets or other IP, then our revenues and potential revenues may be materially reduced. Because of the significant time and expense involved in developing new products in our industry and obtaining regulatory approvals, it is very important to obtain patent and other IP protection for new technologies, products and processes. Our success depends in large part on our continued ability to obtain patents for products and technologies, maintain patent protection for both acquired and developed products, preserve our trade secrets, obtain and preserve other IP such as trademarks and copyrights, and operate without infringing the valid and enforceable proprietary rights of third parties. The degree of patent protection that will be afforded to technologies, products and processes, including ours, in the United States and in other markets is dependent upon the scope of protection provided by patent offices, courts and legislatures in these countries. There is no certainty that our existing patents or, if obtained, future patents, will provide us with substantial protection or commercial benefit. In addition, there is no assurance that our patent applications or patent applications licensed from third parties will ultimately be granted or that those patents that have been issued or are issued in the future will prevail in any court challenge. Our competitors may also develop products, including generic or biosimilar products, similar to ours using methods and technologies that are beyond the scope of our patent protection, which could adversely affect the sales of Tysabri or our other products, if any. Although we believe that we make reasonable efforts to protect our IP rights and to ensure that our proprietary technology does not infringe the valid and enforceable rights of other parties, we cannot ascertain the existence of all potentially conflicting claims. Therefore, there is a risk that third parties may make claims of infringement against Tysabri or our other products, if any. In addition, third parties may be able to obtain patents that prevent the sale or use of Tysabri or our other products, if any, or require us to obtain a license and pay significant fees or royalties in order to continue selling Tysabri or our other products, if any. There has been, and we expect there will continue to be, significant litigation in the industry regarding patents and other IP rights. Litigation and other proceedings concerning patents and other IP rights in which we are involved have been and will continue to be protracted and expensive and could be distracting to our management and business operations. Our competitors have sued and may sue us or our collaborators as a means of delaying the introduction of products, or to extract royalties against a marketed product. In particular, a patent claim is pending against Biogen Idec with trial set for early 2014. In the event of an adverse result in the litigation, or pursuant to a settlement, Biogen Idec may have to agree to pay damages and/or a royalty on sales of Tysabri and under our Collaboration Agreement with Biogen Idec, or under the Tysabri Transaction, we may be required to pay approximately 50% of such damages or royalty, which may result in a material diminution of our Tysabri revenue. Any litigation, interference proceedings, re-examinations or oppositions against us or our licensors, may be costly and time consuming and could adversely affect us. In addition, litigation has been and may be instituted to determine the validity, scope or non-infringement of patent rights claimed by third parties to be pertinent to the manufacturing, use or sale of Tysabri or our other products, if any, or their products. The outcome of any such litigation could adversely affect the validity and scope of our patents or other IP rights, hinder, delay or prevent the marketing and sale of Tysabri or our other products, if any, and cost us substantial sums of money. If there are significant delays in the manufacture or supply of Tysabri or in the supply of raw materials for Tysabri, then sales of Tysabri could be materially and adversely affected. Biogen Idec manufactures Tysabri with no participation from us. Our dependence upon Biogen Idec for the manufacture of Tysabri may result in unforeseen delays or other problems beyond our control. For example, if Biogen Idec is not in compliance with current good manufacturing practices (cGMP) or other applicable regulatory requirements, then the supply of Tysabri could be materially and adversely affected. If Biogen Idec experiences delays or difficulties in producing Tysabri, then sales of Tysabri could be materially and adversely affected. Biogen Idec requires supplies of raw materials for the manufacture of Tysabri. Biogen Idec does not have dual sourcing of all required raw materials. In addition, although a second manufacturing facility is in development, Biogen Idec currently relies on its manufacturing facility in Research Triangle Park, North Carolina to manufacture Tysabri. The inability to obtain sufficient quantities of required raw materials could materially and adversely affect the supply of Tysabri. 12 Table of Contents We are subject to pricing pressures and uncertainties regarding healthcare reimbursement and reform. In the United States, many pharmaceutical products and biologics are subject to increasing pricing pressures. Our ability to commercialize products successfully depends, in part, upon the extent to which healthcare providers are reimbursed by third-party payers, such as governmental agencies, including the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, private health insurers and other organizations, such as health maintenance organizations (HMOs), for the cost of such products and related treatments. In addition, if healthcare providers do not view current or future Medicare reimbursements for Tysabri or our other products, if any, favorably, then they may not prescribe Tysabri or our other products, if any. Third party payers are increasingly challenging the pricing of pharmaceutical products by, among other things, limiting the pharmaceutical products that are on their formulary lists. As a result, competition among pharmaceutical companies to place their products on these formulary lists has reduced product prices. If reasonable reimbursement for Tysabri or our other products, if any, is unavailable or if significant downward pricing pressures in the industry occur, then we could be materially and adversely affected. The Obama Administration and the Congress in the United States have significantly changed U.S. healthcare law and regulation, which may change the manner by which drugs and biologics are developed, marketed and purchased. In addition, MCOs, HMOs, preferred provider organizations, institutions and other government agencies continue to seek price discounts. Further, some states in the United States have proposed and some other states have adopted various programs to control prices for their seniors’ and low-income drug programs, including price or patient reimbursement constraints, restrictions on access to certain products, importation from other countries, such as Canada, and bulk purchasing of drugs. We encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most other countries. In the European Union and some other international markets, the government provides healthcare at low direct cost to consumers and regulates pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system. Many countries are seeking to reduce their public expenditures on healthcare. These efforts may result in patient access restrictions, increased pressure on drug pricing, including denial of price increases, prospective and retrospective price decreases and increased mandatory discounts or rebates. For instance, a revenue reserve of $30.6 million was recorded in 2012 and $37.5 million to date on Tysabri in-market sales in Italy, arising from a disagreement between Biogen Idec and the Italian National Medicines Agency (Medicines Agency) on a contract interpretation of a limit established by the Medicines Agency in 2007. In December 2011, Biogen Idec filed an appeal against the Medicines Agency seeking a ruling that the reimbursement limit does not apply and that the position of the Medicines Agency is unenforceable. Until this dispute is resolved, we will continue to defer Tysabri revenue. The revenue reserve is discussed further on page 48. The sovereign debt crisis in Europe and elsewhere may accelerate efforts by governments to control public expenditures on healthcare, which may limit, reduce or delay reimbursements for Tysabri. These efforts may negatively impact Tysabri revenue. Even if the Tysabri Transaction is consummated, negative impacts on Tysabri revenue will result in lower royalty payments to us. We settled with the U.S. government with respect to its investigation of the marketing practices concerning our former Zonegran product which required us to pay $203.5 million in criminal and civil fines and penalties and take other actions that could have a material adverse effect on us. In December 2010, we resolved all aspects of the U.S. Department of Justice’s investigation of sales and marketing practices for Zonegran, an antiepileptic prescription medicine that we divested in 2004. In the first quarter of 2011, we paid $203.5 million pursuant to the terms of a global settlement of all U.S. federal and related state Medicaid claims. In addition, we pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor violation of the U.S. Federal Food Drug & Cosmetic Act (FD&C Act) and entered into a Corporate Integrity Agreement with the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services to promote our compliance with the requirements of U.S. federal healthcare programs and the FDA. If we materially fail to comply with the requirements of U.S. federal healthcare programs or the FDA, or otherwise materially breach the terms of the Corporate Integrity Agreement, such as by a material breach of the compliance program or reporting obligations of the Corporate Integrity Agreement, severe sanctions could be imposed upon us. This resolution of the Zonegran investigation could give rise to other investigations or litigation by state government entities or private parties. The pharmaceutical industry is subject to anti-kickback, bribery and false claims laws in the United States and elsewhere. In addition to the FDA restrictions on marketing of pharmaceutical products, several other types of state and federal laws have been applied to restrict some marketing practices in the pharmaceutical industry in recent years. These laws include anti-kickback, bribery and false claims statutes. The federal healthcare program anti-kickback statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting, or receiving remuneration to induce or in return for, purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any healthcare item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid or other federally financed 13 Table of Contents healthcare programs. This statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on one hand, and prescribers, purchasers and formulary managers on the other. Although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting some common activities from prosecution, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that involve remuneration intended to induce prescribing, purchases or recommendations may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor. Our practices may not in all cases meet all of the criteria for safe harbor protection from anti-kickback liability. Federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. In recent years, many pharmaceutical and other healthcare companies have been prosecuted under these laws for allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product. Additionally, we and other pharmaceutical companies have settled charges under the federal False Claims Act, and related state laws, relating to off-label promotion. We are now operating under a Corporate Integrity Agreement with the Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to promote our compliance with the requirements of U.S. federal healthcare programs and the FDA. If we materially fail to comply with the requirements of U.S. federal healthcare programs or the FDA, or otherwise materially breach the terms of the Corporate Integrity Agreement, such as by a material breach of the compliance program or reporting obligations of the Corporate Integrity Agreement, severe sanctions could be imposed upon us. The majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items, and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payer. Sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a manufacturer’s products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines, and imprisonment. Pursuant to an Order filed on August 6, 2012, we are aware of a lawsuit pending in the United States District Court for the Western District of Virginia against Biogen Idec and Elan pursuant to the federal False Claims Act and similar state statues. We have neither seen, nor been served with, a copy of the related complaint. In addition to any penalties or charges that may result in the ordinary course from this lawsuit, if we are found to have engaged in conduct prohibited under our Corporate Integrity Agreement, severe sanctions could be imposed on us. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and the United Kingdom Bribery Act (U.K. Bribery Act) prohibits companies and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to foreign officials (and some private individuals under the U.K. Bribery Act) for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business abroad. In many countries, the healthcare professionals we interact with may meet the definition of a foreign government official for purposes of the FCPA. Failure to comply with domestic or foreign laws could result in various adverse consequences, including possible delay in approval or refusal to approve a product, recalls, seizures, withdrawal of an approved product from the market, the imposition of civil or criminal sanctions and the prosecution of executives overseeing our international operations. We are subject to extensive government regulation, which may adversely affect our ability to bring new products to market and may adversely affect Tysabri. The pharmaceutical industry is subject to significant regulation by state, local, national and international governmental regulatory authorities. In the United States, the FDA, and in the European Union, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) regulate the design, development, preclinical and clinical testing, manufacturing, labeling, storing, distribution, import, export, record keeping, reporting, marketing and promotion of pharmaceutical products, which include drugs, biologics and medical devices. Failure to comply with regulatory requirements at any stage during the regulatory process could result in, among other things, delays in the approval of applications or supplements to approved applications, refusal of a regulatory authority to review pending market approval applications or supplements to approved applications, warning letters, fines, import or export restrictions, product recalls or seizures, injunctions, total or partial suspension of production, civil penalties, withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications or licenses, recommendations by the FDA or other regulatory authorities against governmental contracts, and criminal prosecutions. We must obtain and maintain approval for products from regulatory authorities before such products may be sold in a particular jurisdiction. The submission of an application to a regulatory authority with respect to a product does not guarantee that approval to market the product will be granted. Each authority generally imposes its own requirements and may delay or refuse to grant approval, even though a product has been approved in another country. In our principal markets, including the United States, the approval process for a new product is complex, lengthy, expensive and subject to unanticipated delays. We cannot be sure when or whether approvals from regulatory authorities will be received or that the terms of any approval will not impose significant limitations that could negatively impact the potential profitability of the approved product. Even after a product is approved, it may be subject to regulatory action based on newly discovered facts about the safety and efficacy of the product, on any activities that regulatory 14 Table of Contents authorities consider to be improper or as a result of changes in regulatory policy. Regulatory action may have a material adverse effect on the marketing of a product, require changes in the product’s labeling or even lead to the withdrawal of the regulatory marketing approval of the product. All facilities and manufacturing techniques used for the manufacture of products and devices for clinical use or for sale in the United States must be operated in conformity with cGMPs, the FDA’s regulations governing the production of pharmaceutical products. There are comparable regulations in other countries, including regulations issued by the EMA for the European Union. Any finding by the FDA, the EMA or other regulatory authority that we are not in substantial compliance with cGMP regulations or that we have engaged in activities in violation of these regulations could interfere with the continued manufacture and distribution of the affected products, up to the entire output of such products, and, in some cases, might also require the recall of previously distributed products. Any such finding by the FDA, the EMA or other regulatory agency could also affect our ability to obtain new approvals until such issues are resolved. The FDA, the EMA and other regulatory authorities conduct scheduled periodic regulatory inspections of facilities to ensure compliance with cGMP regulations. Any determination by the FDA, the EMA or other regulatory authority that we, or one of our suppliers, in particular Biogen Idec, are not in substantial compliance with these regulations or are otherwise engaged in improper or illegal activities could result in substantial fines and other penalties and could cut off our product supply. Our business exposes us to risks of environmental liabilities. We use hazardous materials, chemicals and toxic compounds that could expose people or property to accidental contamination and result in events of non-compliance with environmental laws, regulatory enforcement and claims related to personal injury and property damage. If an accident occurred or if we were to discover contamination caused by prior operations, then we could be liable for cleanup, damages or fines, which could have an adverse effect on us. The environmental laws of many jurisdictions impose actual and potential obligations on us to remediate contaminated sites. These obligations may relate to sites that we currently own or lease, sites that we formerly owned or operated, or sites where waste from our operations was disposed. These environmental remediation obligations could significantly impact our operating results. Stricter environmental, safety and health laws and enforcement policies could result in substantial costs and liabilities to us, and could subject our handling, manufacture, use, reuse or disposal of substances or pollutants to more rigorous scrutiny than is currently the case. Consequently, compliance with these laws could result in significant capital expenditures, as well as other costs and liabilities, which could materially adversely affect us. If we fail to comply with our reporting and payment obligations under the Medicaid rebate program or other governmental pricing programs, then we could be subject to material reimbursements, penalties, sanctions and fines. As a condition of reimbursement under Medicaid, we participate in the U.S. federal Medicaid rebate program, as well as several state rebate programs. Under the federal and state Medicaid rebate programs, we pay a rebate to each state for a product that is reimbursed by those programs. The amount of the rebate for each unit of product is set by law, based on reported pricing data. The rebate amount may also include a penalty if our prices increase faster than the rate of inflation. For manufacturers of single-source, innovator and non-innovator multiple-source products, rebate calculations vary among products and programs. The calculations are complex and, in some respects, subject to interpretation by governmental or regulatory agencies, the courts and us. The Medicaid rebate amount is computed each quarter based on our pricing data submission to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The terms of our participation in the program impose an obligation to correct the prices reported in previous quarters, as may be necessary. Any such corrections could result in an overage or shortfall in our rebate liability for past quarters (up to 12 past quarters), depending on the direction of the correction. Governmental agencies may also make changes in program interpretations, requirements or conditions of participation, some of which may have implications for amounts previously estimated or paid. U.S. federal law requires that any company that participates in the federal Medicaid rebate program extend comparable discounts to qualified purchasers under the Public Health Service’s (PHS) pharmaceutical pricing program. This pricing program extends discounts comparable to the Medicaid net price to a variety of community health clinics and other entities that receive health services grants from the PHS, as well as outpatient utilization at hospitals that serve a disproportionate share of poor patients. Additionally, each calendar quarter, we calculate and report an Average Sales Price (ASP) for Tysabri, which is covered by Medicare Part B (primarily injectable or infused products). We submit ASP information for Tysabri within 30 days of the end of each calendar quarter. This information is then used to set reimbursement levels to reimburse Part B providers for the drugs and biologicals dispensed to Medicare Part B participants. Furthermore, pursuant to the Veterans Health Care Act, a Non-Federal Average 15 Table of Contents Manufacturer Price is calculated each quarter and a Federal Ceiling Price is calculated each year for Tysabri. These prices are used to set pricing for purchases by the military arm of the government. These price reporting obligations are complicated and often involve decisions regarding issues for which there is no clear-cut guidance from the government. Failure to submit correct pricing data can subject us to material civil, administrative and criminal penalties. If the Tysabri Transaction is consummated, we will transfer these reporting obligations with respect to Tysabri to Biogen Idec. We will retain responsibility for all discounts and allowances liabilities related to Tysabri sales up to the consummation of the Tysabri Transaction. Refer to pages 32 to 36 for additional information on Tysabri sales discounts and allowances. We are subject to continuing potential product liability risks, in particular with respect to Tysabri, which could cost us material amounts of money. Risks relating to product liability claims are inherent in the development, manufacturing and marketing of products. Any person who is injured while using Tysabri, or products that we are responsible for, may have a product liability claim against us. Persons who participate in our clinical trials may also bring liability claims. We are a defendant in product liability actions related to products that we marketed. In addition, we are defendants in product liability lawsuits arising out of serious adverse events, including deaths, which occurred in patients taking Tysabri. We expect additional product liability lawsuits related to Tysabri usage to be filed. While we or Biogen Idec intend to vigorously defend these lawsuits, we cannot predict how these cases will be resolved. If the Tysabri Transaction closes, we will continue to be responsible for 50 percent of losses and expenses arising out of Tysabri product liability claims. Adverse results in one or more of these cases could result in substantial monetary judgments. Excluding any self-insured arrangements, we do not maintain product liability insurance for the first $10.0 million of aggregate claims, but do maintain coverage with our insurers for the next $140.0 million. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover fully all potential claims, nor can we guarantee the solvency of any of our insurers. If our claims experience results in higher rates, or if product liability insurance otherwise becomes costlier because of general economic, market or industry conditions, then we may not be able to maintain product liability coverage on acceptable terms. If sales of our product increase materially, or if we add significant products to our portfolio, then we will require increased coverage and may not be able to secure such coverage at reasonable rates or terms. Our sales and operations are subject to the risks of fluctuations in currency exchange rates and to the risk of a partial or total collapse of the euro. Our headquarters are in Ireland and three of the major markets for Tysabri are Germany, France and Italy. As a result, changes in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the euro can have significant effects on our results of operations. In addition, the partial or total collapse of the euro would cause severe and adverse consequences to sales of Tysabri in Europe and to reimbursements for sales of Tysabri in Europe. Our auditor is not inspected by the PCAOB, and as such, our investors currently do not have the benefits of PCAOB oversight. As an auditor of companies that are publicly traded in the United States and a firm registered with the PCAOB, our independent registered public accounting firm is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and the professional standards of the PCAOB. However, because our auditor is located in Ireland, a jurisdiction where the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections, our auditor is not currently inspected by the PCAOB. Inspections of other auditors conducted by the PCAOB outside of Ireland have at times identified deficiencies in those auditor’s audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. The lack of PCAOB inspections in Ireland prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating our auditor’s audits and its quality control procedures. In addition, the inability of the PCAOB to conduct auditor inspections in Ireland makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to auditors located outside of Ireland that are subject to regular PCAOB inspections. As a result, investors will be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections, and may lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements. 16 Table of Contents Provisions of agreements to which we are a party may discourage or prevent a third party from acquiring us and could prevent our shareholders from receiving a premium for their shares. We are a party to agreements that may discourage a takeover attempt that might be viewed as beneficial to our shareholders who wish to receive a premium for their shares from a potential bidder. For example: • Our Collaboration Agreement with Biogen Idec provides Biogen Idec with an option to buy the rights to Tysabri in the event that we undergo a change of control, which may limit our attractiveness to potential acquirers. If the Tysabri Transaction is consummated the Collaboration Agreement (and as a result, the purchase option) will terminate. If the Tysabri Transaction is not consummated due to the Regulatory Conditions having not been satisfied, then the parties have agreed that the purchase option will terminate; • Johnson & Johnson is our largest shareholder and is largely in control of our share of the AIP; however, Johnson & Johnson and its affiliates are subject to a standstill agreement until September 17, 2014, pursuant to which, subject to limited exceptions, they will not be permitted to acquire additional shares in Elan or take other actions to acquire control of Elan; • The Corporate Integrity Agreement that we entered into with the U.S. government with respect to the settlement of the Zonegran matter contains provisions that may require any acquirer to assume the obligations imposed by the Corporate Integrity Agreement, which may limit our attractiveness to a potential acquirer; • Under the terms of the indenture governing our debt, any acquirer would be required to make an offer to repurchase the debt for cash in connection with some change of control events; and • If the Tysabri Transaction is consummated, we have agreed not to research, develop or commercialize products which act on or through Alpha 4 Integrin, such as Tysabri. 