ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Investing in our common stock involves various risks which are particular to our company, our industry and our market area. Several risk factors regarding investing in our common stock are discussed below. This listing should not be considered as all-inclusive. If any of the following risks were to occur, we may not be able to conduct our business as currently planned and our financial condition or operating results could be negatively impacted. These matters could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline in future periods. We can provide no assurance that our medical centers will be able to compete effectively with other existing healthcare providers. The business of providing healthcare-related services is highly competitive. Many companies, including professionally managed physician practice management companies like ours, manage medical clinics, and employ clinic physicians at the clinics. Large hospitals, other physician practice centers, retail healthcare providers, private doctor's offices and healthcare companies, HMOs, and insurance companies are also involved in activities similar to ours. Because our main business is the provision of medical services to the general public, our primary competitors are the local physician practices and hospital emergency rooms in the markets where we own medical centers. Increased competition is expected in our markets from retail healthcare providers, often located in retail businesses such as drug stores and discount store operations, which offer treatment without an appointment for certain permitted routine diagnoses. Some of these competitors have longer operating histories or significantly greater resources than we do. In addition, traditional sources of medical services, such as hospital emergency rooms and private physicians, have had in the past a higher degree of recognition and acceptance than the medical centers that we operate. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete effectively or that additional competitors will not enter the market in the future. If a regulatory authority finds that our organization and relationships do not comply with existing or future laws and regulations, our operations could be materially adversely affected. As a participant in the healthcare industry, our operations and relationships are subject to extensive and increasing regulation by a number of governmental bodies at the federal, state and local levels. Although we have tried to structure our business to comply with these existing laws and regulations, we have had little guidance as to whether we comply or not because of the unique structure of our business operations. We cannot assure you that a review by the courts or regulatory authorities of our former or current business will not result in a determination that could adversely affect our operations. In particular, we can provide you with no assurance that a court or regulatory body would find that our structure and business operations comply with the following: o State and federal laws limiting the provision of medical services by business corporations; o State and federal anti-kickback and self-referral laws; o Antitrust laws; and o Federal and state laws and regulations governing insurance companies, HMOs, and other managed care organizations. We have provided you with a discussion of each of these areas in the section titled "Government Regulation" under Item 1 above. Furthermore, the laws and regulations governing the healthcare industry change rapidly and constantly. In the future, the regulatory environment may change in a manner as to require us to modify or restrict our existing operations and any proposed expansion of our business. Restrictions on or modifications of our operations because of a changing regulatory environment could materially adversely affect our business. If the laws, regulations, and policies governing government-sponsored healthcare programs are changed, our operations could be materially adversely affected. Historically, we derive approximately 13 percent of our revenues from payments made by government-sponsored healthcare programs (principally, Medicare and Medicaid). As a result, any change in the laws, regulations, or policies governing reimbursements could adversely affect our operations. Additionally, state and federal civil and criminal statutes impose substantial penalties, including civil and criminal fines and imprisonment, on healthcare providers that fraudulently or wrongfully bill governmental or other third-party payors for healthcare services. We believe we are in material compliance with these laws, but we cannot assure you that our activities will not be challenged or scrutinized by governmental authorities. Departures of our key personnel or directors will impair our operations. We have the following executive officers: D. Michael Stout, M.D., our President, Chief Executive Officer and Director of Medical Affairs; and Jerry F. Wells, Jr., CPA, our Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and Corporate Secretary. They are instrumental in our organization and are the key management officials in charge of our daily business operations. We cannot be assured of the continued service of either of them, and each of them would be difficult to replace. Additionally, our directors' community involvement, diverse backgrounds, and extensive business relationships are important to our success. Because of the nature of our business, we run the risk that we will be unable to collect the fees that we have earned. Virtually all of our consolidated net revenue was derived in the past, and we believe will be derived in the future, from our medical centers' charges for services on a fee-for-service basis. Accordingly, we assume the financial risk related to collection, including the potential uncollectability of accounts, long collection cycles for accounts receivable, and delays attendant to reimbursement by third party payors, such as governmental programs, private insurance plans and managed care organizations. Increases in write-offs of doubtful accounts, delays in receiving payments or potential retroactive adjustments, and penalties resulting from audits by payors may require us to borrow funds to meet our current obligations or may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to certain special risks in connection with the intangible assets reported on our balance sheet. As a result of our various acquisition transactions, intangible assets (net of accumulated amortization) of approximately $3.4 million have been recorded on our balance sheet as of September 30, 2007. Because of a change in accounting principles adopted by the accounting profession, we ceased amortizing our intangible assets in the fiscal year ending September 30, 2002. Instead, after an initial review of our intangible assets for impairment in connection with our adoption of this new accounting principle, we analyze our intangible assets on an annual basis for impairment of value. Under these current accounting standards, our net unamortized balance of intangible assets acquired was not considered to be impaired as of September 30, 2007. In the past, however, we have recorded impairments to our intangible assets when appropriate. For example, effective September 30, 2001, we recorded impairment in the approximate amount of $750,000 to reduce our intangible assets to fair value. We recorded this impairment because we combined two of our Knoxville, Tennessee locations, and we also had decreased profitability in a Columbia and Greenville center. Therefore, we deemed that the goodwill associated with these three locations was impaired and should be written off. We cannot assure you that we will ever realize the value of our remaining intangible assets in the future. We may be required to recognize that the value of our intangible assets has been further impaired in our subsequent annual reviews upon analyzing our operating results. Any future determination that a significant impairment has occurred would require us to write-off the impaired portion of our remaining intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in accounting standards could impact reported earnings. The accounting standard setters, including the FASB, SEC and other regulatory bodies, periodically change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the restatement of prior period financial statements. You may have difficulty in selling your shares because of the absence of an active public market. On October 20, 1998, our common stock was delisted for trading on the NASDAQ SmallCap Market. Shortly before our delisting, NASDAQ raised its criteria to remain listed on the NASDAQ SmallCap Market. Our delisting was a consequence of our failure to meet the increased requirements for the value of assets for companies traded on the NASDAQ SmallCap Market. Because our stock is no longer listed on the NASDAQ SmallCap Market, trading in our common stock is conducted in the over-the-counter market. Consequently, our stockholders may find disposing of shares of our common stock and obtaining accurate quotations of its market value more difficult. In addition, the delisting may make our common stock substantially less attractive as: o collateral for loans; o an investment by financial institutions because of their internal policies or state legal investment laws; o consideration to finance any future acquisitions of medical practices; and, o an investment opportunity by investors should we desire to raise additional capital in the future. Although our common stock is currently eligible for quotation on the over-the-counter bulletin board, we have been informed that the NASD may be considering higher standards for permitting quotations of securities on the bulletin board. If the NASD does raise its standards, the over-the-counter bulletin board may no longer be available as a trading market for our stockholders as well. Consequently, potential investors should only invest in our common stock if they have a long-term investment intent. If an active market does not develop and a shareholder desires to sell its shares of our common stock, the shareholder will be required to locate a buyer on its own and may not be able to do so. The absence of a public market makes the price of our common stock particularly volatile and susceptible to market fluctuations. Trading in our common stock has historically been very limited, and we cannot assure stockholders that an active trading market for our common stock will ever develop or be sustained. Because of the limited trading liquidity in our common stock, the market price of our common stock has been vulnerable to significant fluctuations in response to very limited market trading in our shares. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the availability of substantial amounts of our common stock for future sale, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock will remain subject to significant fluctuations in response to these factors as well as in response to operating results and other factors affecting stock prices generally. The stock market in recent years has experienced price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. These fluctuations, as well as general economic and market conditions, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock in the future. Shareholders may have difficulty selling their shares because our common stock is a "penny stock" and is subject to special SEC rules that make transactions in our common stock burdensome for broker-dealers. As long as the trading price of our common stock is less than $5.00 per share, our common stock will be considered to be a "penny stock" under SEC rules. Generally, a "penny stock" is any non-NASDAQ equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share. If a penny stock is traded in the secondary market, these SEC rules require the broker-dealer to provide to the purchaser a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated with it. These SEC rules also require broker-dealers to abide by various sales practices if they sell penny stocks to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. For these penny stock transactions, the broker-dealer must make a special determination that the investment in the penny stock is suitable for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written consent to the purchase before the transaction. The additional burdens that these SEC rules impose upon broker-dealers may discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our common stock and could severely limit a shareholder's ability to sell its shares in the secondary market. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely in the future. The trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to quarter-to-quarter variations in our operating results, material announcements made by us from time to time, governmental regulatory action, general conditions in the healthcare industry, or other events, or factors, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, which have particularly affected the market prices of many healthcare services companies and which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Our operating results in future quarters may be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In this event, the price of our common stock would likely decline, perhaps substantially. The market price of our common stock may decline should a substantial number of shares of our common stock be offered for sale on the open market. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock and could impair our future ability to raise capital through the sale of our equity securities. We are unable to predict the effect, if any, that future sales of our common stock or the availability of our common stock for sale may have on the market price of our common stock from time to time. Anti-takeover provisions in our certificate of incorporation and state corporate laws could deter or prevent take-over attempts by a potential purchaser of our common stock and deprive you of the opportunity to obtain a takeover premium for your shares. In many cases, stockholders receive a premium for their shares when a company is purchased by another. Various provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and state corporate laws could deter and make it more difficult for a third party to bring about a merger, sale of control, or similar transaction without approval of our board of directors. These provisions tend to perpetuate existing management. As a result, our shareholders may be deprived of opportunities to sell some or all of their shares at prices that represent a premium over market prices. These provisions, which could make it less likely that a change in control will occur, include: provisions in our certificate of incorporation establishing three classes of directors with staggered terms, o which means that only one-third of the members of the board of directors is elected each year and each director serves for a term of three years. provisions in our certificate of incorporation authorizing the board of directors to issue a series of o preferred stock without shareholder action, which issuance could discourage a third party from attempting to acquire, or make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, a controlling interest in us. We do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We have no source of income other than dividends that we receive from our operating subsidiary, UCI-SC. Our ability to pay dividends to shareholders will therefore depend on the subsidiary's ability to pay dividends to us. The subsidiary intends to retain future earnings, if any, for use in the operation and expansion of our business. Consequently, we do not plan to pay dividends until we recover any losses that we have incurred and become profitable. Additionally, our future dividend policy will depend on our earnings, financial condition, and other factors that our Board of Directors considers relevant. Shareholders may suffer dilution in their interests in our common stock if we offer additional shares of common stock in the future or if certain third parties exercise their option rights to acquire additional shares of our common stock. There is no present intent to offer for sale additional shares of common stock. However, we cannot ensure that, in the future, we will not have to seek additional capital by offering and selling additional shares of common stock in order to continue to operate, acquire additional medical practices in our current or other markets, or achieve successful operations. If it becomes necessary to raise additional capital to support our operations, there is no assurance that additional capital will be available to us, that additional capital can be obtained on terms favorable to us, or that the price of any additional shares that may be offered by us in the future will not be less than the subscription price paid by our shareholders. The effect on existing stockholders of sales of additional shares of common stock cannot presently be determined. As of September 30, 2007, BlueChoice HealthPlan "BCHP", a wholly-owned subsidiary of BCBS, owned in the aggregate 6,726,019 shares, or approximately 67.84 percent, of our outstanding common stock. Under various agreements among BCHP and us, we have given these companies the right at any time to purchase from us the number of shares of our voting stock as is necessary for BCBS and its affiliated entity, as a group, to obtain and then maintain an aggregate ownership of 48 percent of our outstanding voting stock. To the extent the BCBS subsidiary exercises its right in conjunction with a sale of voting stock by us, the price to be paid by the BCBS subsidiary is the average price to be paid by the other purchasers in that sale. Otherwise, the price is the average closing bid price of our voting stock on the ten trading days immediately preceding the election by the BCBS subsidiary to exercise its purchase rights. Consequently, to the extent the BCBS subsidiary elects to exercise any or a portion of its rights under these anti-dilution agreements, the sale of shares of common stock to the BCBS subsidiary will have the effect of further reducing the percentage voting interest in us represented by a share of the common stock. Certain affiliates have the ability to exercise substantial influence. The substantial ownership of our common stock by the BCBS subsidiary and other of our affiliates may provide them with the ability to exercise substantial influence in the election of directors and other matters submitted for approval by our stockholders. As a result, other stockholders may be unable to successfully oppose matters that are presented by these entities for action by stockholders, or to take actions that are opposed by these entities. The ownership by these entities may also have the effect of delaying, deterring, or preventing a change in our control without the consent of these entities. These effects could reduce the value of our stock. In addition, sales of common stock by these entities could result in another stockholder obtaining control over us. We are dependent upon the good reputation of our physicians. The success of our business is dependent upon quality medical services being rendered by our physicians. As the patient-physician relationship involves inherent trust and confidence, any negative publicity, whether from civil litigation, allegations of criminal misconduct, or forfeiture of medical licenses, with respect to any of our physicians and/or our facilities could adversely affect our results of operations. Our revenues and profits could be diminished if we lose the services of key physicians. Substantially all of our revenues are derived from medical services performed by physicians. Some of our physicians produce more revenue than other physicians in our company. Certain of these higher producing physicians could retire, become disabled, terminate their employment agreements or provider contracts, or otherwise become unable or unwilling to continue generating revenues at the current level, or practicing medicine within our organization. Patients who have been served by those physicians could choose to request medical services from our competitors, reducing our revenues and profits. Moreover, we may not be able to attract or retain other qualified physicians into our company to replace the services of such physicians. We may become subject to claims of medical malpractice for which our insurance coverage may not be adequate. Such claims could materially increase our costs and reduce our profitability. Since we are involved in the delivery of healthcare services to the public, we are exposed to the risk of professional liability claims. Claims of this nature, if successful, could result in substantial damage awards to the claimants, which may exceed the limits of any applicable insurance coverage. We are currently insured under policies in amounts management deems appropriate, based upon historical claims and the nature and risk of our business. Nevertheless, there are exclusions and exceptions to coverage under each insurance policy that may make coverage for any claim unavailable, future claims could exceed the limits of available insurance coverage, existing insurers could become insolvent and fail to meet their obligations to provide coverage for such claims, and such coverage may not always be available with sufficient limits and at reasonable cost to adequately and economically insure us in the future. A judgment against us could materially increase our costs and reduce our profitability. Our business is concentrated in specific geographic locations and could be affected by a depressed economy in these areas. We provide our services to areas in South Carolina and Tennessee. A stagnant or depressed economy in these states could affect all of our markets and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Terrorist attacks, acts of war, or military actions, such as continued military actions in Iraq or elsewhere, may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Future terrorist attacks, the military response, and other future developments, may adversely affect prevailing economic conditions. These developments, depending on their magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. There are no comments from the staff of the SEC regarding our periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act that remain unresolved. 