ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Investors in our company should consider the following matters, in addition to the other information we have provided in this report and the documents we incorporate by reference. We derive most of our revenue from companies in the offshore oil and gas industry, a historically cyclical industry with levels of activity that are significantly affected by the levels and volatility of oil and gas prices. We derive most of our revenue from customers in the offshore oil and gas exploration, development and production industry. The offshore oil and gas industry is a historically cyclical industry characterized by significant changes in the levels of exploration and development activities. Oil and gas prices, and market expectations of potential changes in those prices, significantly affect the levels of those activities. Worldwide political, economic and military events have contributed to oil and gas price volatility and are likely to continue to do so in the future. Any prolonged reduction in the overall level of offshore oil and gas exploration and development activities, whether resulting from changes in oil and gas prices or otherwise, could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in our segments within our Oil and Gas business. Some factors that have affected and are likely to continue affecting oil and gas prices and the level of demand for our services and products include the following: • worldwide demand for oil and gas; • general economic and business conditions and industry trends; • the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC, to set and maintain production levels and pricing; • the level of production by non-OPEC countries; 12 Table of Contents • domestic and foreign tax policy; • laws and governmental regulations that restrict exploration and development of oil and gas in various offshore jurisdictions; • rapid technological changes; • the political environment of oil-producing regions; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; and • overall economic conditions. Our international operations involve additional risks not associated with domestic operations. A significant portion of our revenue is attributable to operations in foreign countries. These activities accounted for approximately 47% of our consolidated revenue in the year ended December 31, 2006. Risks associated with our operations in foreign areas include risks of: • war and civil disturbances or other risks that may limit or disrupt markets; • expropriation, confiscation or nationalization of assets; • renegotiation or nullification of existing contracts; • foreign exchange restrictions; • foreign currency fluctuations; • foreign taxation; • the inability to repatriate earnings or capital; • changing political conditions; • changing foreign and domestic monetary policies; • social, political, military and economic situations in foreign areas where we do business and the possibilities of war, other armed conflict or terrorist attacks; and • regional economic downturns. Additionally, in some jurisdictions we are subject to foreign governmental regulations favoring or requiring the awarding of contracts to local contractors or requiring foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. These regulations may adversely affect our ability to compete. Our exposure to the risks we described above varies from country to country. In recent periods, political instability and civil unrest in Indonesia and West Africa have been our greatest concerns. There is a risk that a continuation or worsening of these conditions could materially and adversely impact our future business, operations, financial condition and results of operations. Of our total consolidated revenue for the year ended December 31, 2006, we generated approximately 12% from our operations in West Africa. Our offshore oilfield operations involve a variety of operating hazards and risks that could cause losses. Our operations are subject to the hazards inherent in the offshore oilfield business. These include blowouts, explosions, fires, collisions, capsizings and severe weather conditions. These hazards could result in personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment, pollution or environmental damage and suspension of operations. We may incur substantial liabilities or losses as a result of these hazards. While we maintain insurance protection against some of these risks, and seek to obtain indemnity agreements from our customers requiring the customers to hold us harmless from some of these risks, our insurance and contractual indemnity protection may not be sufficient or effective to protect us under all circumstances or against all risks. The occurrence of a significant event not fully insured or indemnified against or the failure of a customer to meet its indemnification obligations to us could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Laws and governmental regulations may add to our costs or adversely affect our operations. Our business is affected by changes in public policy and by federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the offshore oil and gas industry. Offshore oil and gas exploration and production operations are affected by tax, environmental, safety and other laws, by changes in those laws and changes in related administrative regulations. It is also possible that these laws and regulations may in the future add significantly to our operating costs or those of our customers or otherwise directly or indirectly affect our operations. 13 Table of Contents Environmental laws and regulations can increase our costs, and our failure to comply with those laws and regulations can expose us to significant liabilities. Risks of substantial costs and liabilities related to environmental compliance issues are inherent in our operations. Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the generation, storage, handling, emission, transportation and discharge of materials into the environment. Permits are required for the operation of various facilities, and those permits are subject to revocation, modification and renewal. Governmental authorities have the power to enforce compliance with their regulations, and violations are subject to fines, injunctions or both. In some cases, those governmental requirements can impose liability for the entire cost of cleanup on any responsible party without regard to negligence or fault and impose liability on us for the conduct of or conditions others have caused, or for our acts that complied with all applicable requirements when we performed them. It is possible that other developments, such as stricter environmental laws and regulations, and claims for damages to property or persons resulting from our operations, would result in substantial costs and liabilities. Our insurance policies and the contractual indemnity protection we seek to obtain from our customers may not be sufficient or effective to protect us under all circumstances or against all risks involving compliance with environmental laws and regulations. We may issue preferred stock whose terms could adversely affect the voting power or value of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our shareholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such preferences, powers and relative, participating, optional and other rights, including preferences over our common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our board of directors may determine. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could adversely impact the voting power or value of our common stock. For example, we might grant holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of our directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we might assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of the common stock. Provisions in our corporate documents and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control of our company, even if that change would be beneficial to our shareholders. The existence of some provisions in our corporate documents and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control of our company, even if that change would be beneficial to our shareholders. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may make acquiring control of our company difficult, including: • provisions relating to the classification, nomination and removal of our directors; • provisions regulating the ability of our shareholders to bring matters for action at annual meetings of our shareholders; • provisions requiring the approval of the holders of at least 80% of our voting stock for a broad range of business combination transactions with related persons; and • the authorization given to our board of directors to issue and set the terms of preferred stock. In addition, we have adopted a shareholder rights plan that would cause extreme dilution to any person or group who attempts to acquire a significant interest in Oceaneering without advance approval of our board of directors, while the Delaware General Corporation Law would impose some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 