ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Investing in our common stock involves various risks which are particular to our Company, our industry and our market area. Several risk factors regarding investing in our common stock are discussed below. This listing should not be considered as all-inclusive. Any of the following risks, as well as other risks, uncertainties, and possibly inaccurate assumptions underlying our plans and expectations, could result in material harm to our business, results of operations and financial condition and cause the value of our securities to decline, which in turn could cause investors to lose all or part of their investment in our Company. These factors, among others, could also cause actual results to differ from those we have experienced in the past or those we may express or imply from time to time in any forward-looking statements we make. See “Advisory Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” above in this Report. Investors are advised that it is impossible to identify or predict all risks, and that risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also could affect us in the future. We can provide no assurance that our medical centers will be able to compete effectively with other existing healthcare providers. The business of providing healthcare-related services is highly competitive. Many companies, including professionally managed physician practice management companies like ours, manage medical clinics, and employ clinic physicians at the clinics. Large hospitals, other physician practice centers, retail healthcare providers, private doctor’s offices and healthcare companies, HMOs, and insurance companies are also involved in activities similar to ours. Because our main business is the provision of medical services to the general public, our primary competitors are the local physician practices and hospital emergency rooms in the markets where we operate medical centers. Increased competition is expected in our markets from retail healthcare providers, often located in retail businesses such as drug stores and discount store operations, which offer treatment without an appointment for certain permitted routine diagnoses. Some of these competitors have longer operating histories or significantly greater resources than we do. In addition, traditional sources of medical services, such as hospital emergency rooms and private physicians, have had in the past a higher degree of recognition and acceptance than the medical centers that we operate. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete effectively or that additional competitors will not enter the market in the future. 11 Table of Contents If a regulatory authority finds that our organization and relationships do not comply with existing or future laws and regulations, our operations could be materially adversely affected. As a participant in the healthcare industry, our operations and relationships are subject to extensive and increasing regulation by a number of governmental bodies at the federal, state and local levels. Although we have tried to structure our business to comply with these existing laws and regulations, we have had little guidance as to whether we comply or not because of the unique structure of our business operations. We cannot assure you that a review by the courts or regulatory authorities of our former or current business will not result in a determination that could adversely affect our operations. In particular, we can provide you with no assurance that a court or regulatory body would find that our structure and business operations comply with the following: • State and federal laws limiting the provision of medical services by business corporations; • State and federal anti-kickback and self-referral laws; • Antitrust laws; and, • Federal and state laws and regulations governing insurance companies, HMOs, and other managed care organizations. We have provided you with a discussion of each of these areas in the section titled “Government Regulation” under PART 1 – ITEM 1, above. Furthermore, the laws and regulations governing the healthcare industry change rapidly and constantly. Political, economic and regulatory influences are currently subjecting the healthcare industry to fundamental changes. We anticipate that the current presidential administration, Congress and certain state legislatures will continue to review and assess alternative healthcare delivery systems and payment methods with an objective of ultimately reducing healthcare costs and expanding access. Public debate of these issues will likely continue in the future. At this time, we cannot predict which, if any, healthcare reform proposals will be adopted, but any initiatives that force us to modify or restrict our existing operations and any proposed expansion of our business could materially affect our business. Changes to the laws, regulations, and policies governing government-sponsored healthcare programs could materially adversely affect our operations. We have derived approximately 15%, 13% and 13% of our revenues in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, from payments made by government-funded healthcare programs (principally, Medicare and Medicaid). Congress recently adopted the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the “2010 Act”) which reforms the structure and funding for the U.S. healthcare system, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Various items of the 2010 Act could have a material adverse impact on government-sponsored healthcare programs, such as Medicare payments and increased taxes. Also, many states have enacted or are considering enacting measures designed to reduce Medicaid expenditures. States have also adopted, or are considering, legislation designed to reduce coverage and program eligibility and/or impose additional taxes on hospitals to help finance or expand states’ Medicaid systems. We are unable to predict the future course of federal or state healthcare legislation. The 2010 Act and further changes in the law or regulatory framework that reduce our revenues or increase our costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operation. We are subject to healthcare fraud and abuse regulations that could result in significant liability, require us to change our business practices and restrict our operations in the future. We are subject to various U.S. federal and state laws targeting fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry, including anti-kickback and false claims laws. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal or civil sanctions, including substantial fines, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Additionally, state and federal civil and criminal statutes impose substantial penalties, including civil and criminal fines and imprisonment, on healthcare providers that fraudulently or wrongfully bill governmental or other third-party payers for healthcare services. We believe we are in material compliance with these laws, but we cannot assure you that our activities will not be challenged or scrutinized by governmental authorities. 12 Table of Contents We are required to comply with laws governing the transmission, security and privacy of healthcare information that require significant compliance costs, and any failure to comply with these laws could result in material criminal and civil penalties. Numerous state and federal laws and regulations govern the collection, dissemination, use and confidentiality of patient-identifiable healthcare information, including HIPAA and its related rules and regulations. The HIPAA privacy rules restrict the use and disclosure of patient information and requires entities to safeguard that information and to provide certain rights to individuals with respect to that information. The HIPAA security rules establish elaborate requirements for safeguarding patient information transmitted or stored electronically. We conduct our operations in an attempt to comply with all applicable HIPAA requirements. Given the complexity of the HIPAA regulations, the possibility that the regulations may change and the fact that the regulations are subject to changing and sometimes conflicting interpretation, our ongoing ability to comply with the HIPAA requirements is uncertain. Additionally, the costs of complying with any changes to the HIPAA regulations may have a negative impact on our operations. Sanctions for failing to comply with the HIPAA healthcare information provisions include criminal penalties and civil sanctions, including significant monetary penalties. A failure by us to comply with state healthcare laws that may be more restrictive than the HIPAA regulations could result in additional penalties. In 2008, we determined that our previously issued consolidated financial statements should no longer be relied upon and we restated our consolidated financial statements for the six year period ended September 30, 2007. The restatements subjected us to significant cost and a number of additional risks and uncertainties, including increased costs for accounting and legal fees and the increased possibility of legal proceedings. As previously disclosed in our 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K which was filed on February 2, 2010, we determined that our previously issued financial statements for all prior years and interim periods dating back to our fiscal year ended September 30, 2002 should no longer be relied upon because of errors in such financial statements. The restatement subjected us to significant cost and a number of additional risks and uncertainties, including the following: • Substantial unanticipated costs in the form of accounting, legal fees and similar professional fees, in addition to the substantial diversion of time and attention of our Chief Financial Officer and members of our finance department in preparing the restatement. Although the restatement is complete, we can give no assurance that we will not incur additional costs associated with the restatement. • As a result of the determination that our previously issued financial statements could no longer be relied upon and the restatement of certain prior financial statements, we may be susceptible to legal claims by current or former stockholders, regulators or others. If such events occur, we may incur substantial defense costs regardless of the outcome of these actions and insurance and indemnification may not be sufficient to cover the losses we may incur. Likewise, such events might cause a further diversion of our management’s time and attention. If we do not prevail in one or more of these potential actions, we could be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Departures of our key personnel or directors may impair our operations. We have two executive officers. D. Michael Stout, M.D., serves as our President, Chief Executive Officer and Director of Medical Affairs. Joseph A. Boyle, CPA, serves as our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. They are instrumental in our organization and are the key executives in charge of our medical and business operations. We cannot be assured of the continued service of either of them and each of them would be difficult to replace. Additionally, our directors’ community involvement, diverse backgrounds, and extensive business relationships are important to our success. Because of the nature of our business, we run the risk that we will be unable to collect the fees that we have earned. Virtually all of our consolidated net revenue was derived in the past, and we believe will be derived in the future, from our medical centers’ charges for services on a fee-for-service basis. Accordingly, we assume the financial risk related to collection, including the potential uncollectability of accounts, long collection cycles for accounts receivable, and delays associated with reimbursement by third-party payers, such as governmental programs, private insurance plans and managed care organizations. Increases in write-offs of doubtful accounts, delays in receiving payments or potential retroactive adjustments, and penalties resulting from audits by payers may require us to borrow funds to meet our current obligations or may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. 13 Table of Contents We are subject to certain special risks in connection with goodwill reported on our balance sheet. As a result of our various acquisition transactions, goodwill (net of accumulated amortization) of approximately $3.4 million has been recorded on our balance sheet as of September 30, 2009. Because of a change in accounting principles adopted by the accounting profession, we ceased amortizing our goodwill in the fiscal year ending September 30, 2002. Instead, after an initial review of our goodwill for impairment in connection with our adoption of this new accounting principle, we analyze our goodwill on an annual basis for impairment of value. During 2009, we deemed $41,000 of goodwill to be impaired due to the closure of the center with which it was related. Otherwise, under these current accounting principles, our net unamortized balance of goodwill was not considered to be impaired as of September 30, 2009. We cannot assure you that we will ever realize the value of our remaining goodwill in the future. We may be required to recognize that the value of our goodwill has been impaired in our subsequent annual reviews upon analyzing our operating results. Any future determination that a significant impairment has occurred would require us to write-off the impaired portion of our remaining goodwill, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in accounting standards could impact reported earnings. The accounting standard setters, including the FASB, the SEC and other regulatory bodies, periodically change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Among other possible impacts, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, which could result in material changes to, and restatements of, prior period financial statements. You may have difficulty in selling your shares because of the absence of an active public market. On February 13, 2009, our common stock was delisted from the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board (“OTCBB”) as a result of our failure to timely file with the SEC our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Such failure was due to an investigation of our former Chief Financial Officer. Since February 13, 2009, our common stock has traded on the Pink Sheets Electronic Over-the-Counter Market (“Pink Sheets”). Consequently, our stockholders may find disposing of shares of our common stock and obtaining accurate quotations of its market value more difficult. In addition, the delisting may make our common stock substantially less attractive as: • collateral for loans; • an investment by financial institutions because of their internal policies or state legal investment laws; • consideration to finance any future acquisitions of medical practices; and, • an investment opportunity by investors should we desire to raise additional capital in the future. We have been informed that the NASD may be considering higher standards for permitting quotations of securities on the OTCBB. If the NASD does raise its standards, relisting on the OTCBB may no longer be available as a trading market for our stockholders. Consequently, potential investors should only invest in our common stock if they have a long-term investment intent. If an active market does not develop and a stockholder desires to sell its shares of our common stock, the stockholder will be required to locate a buyer on its own and may not be able to do so. 14 Table of Contents The absence of a public market makes the price of our common stock particularly volatile and susceptible to market fluctuations. Trading in our common stock has historically been very limited, and we cannot assure stockholders that an active trading market for our common stock will ever develop or be sustained. Because of the limited trading activity in our common stock, the market price of our common stock has been vulnerable to significant fluctuations in response to very limited market trading in our shares. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock and could impair our future ability to raise capital through the sale of our equity securities. The market price of our common stock will remain subject to significant fluctuations in response to these factors as well as in response to operating results and other factors affecting stock prices generally. The stock market in recent years has experienced price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. These fluctuations, as well as general economic and market conditions, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock in the future. We are unable to predict the effect, if any, that future sales of our common stock or the availability of our common stock for sale may have on the market price of our common stock from time to time. Stockholders may have difficulty selling their shares because our common stock is a “penny stock” and is subject to special SEC rules that make transactions in our common stock burdensome for broker-dealers. Our stock is a “penny stock.” The Commission has adopted regulations which generally define “penny stock” as any equity security that has a market price (as defined) less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Our common stock is covered by the Commission’s penny stock rules, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell to persons other than established customers and “accredited investors.” The term “accredited investor” refers generally to institutions with assets in excess of $5,000,000 or individuals with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000 or $300,000 jointly with their spouse. If a penny stock is traded in the secondary market, the Commission rules require the broker-dealer to provide to the purchaser a standardized risk disclosure schedule prepared by the Commission explaining the nature of the penny stock market and the risks associated with it. The broker-dealer also must provide to the purchaser the current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation payable to both the broker-dealer and its registered representative, and the rights and remedies available to an investor in cases of fraud in penny stock transactions. If the broker-dealer is the sole market maker, the broker-dealer must disclose to the purchaser this fact and the broker-dealer’s presumed control over the market. The foregoing information must be given to the purchaser orally or in writing prior to effecting the transaction and must be given to the purchaser in writing before or with the purchaser’s confirmation. In addition, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and that the purchaser has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial matters to be capable of evaluating the risks of transactions in penny stocks and must receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction. Finally, after the sale, the broker-dealer must provide to the purchaser monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the purchaser’s account and containing information on the limited market in penny stocks. The additional burdens that these Commission rules impose upon broker-dealers may discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our common stock and could severely limit a stockholder’s ability to sell its shares in the secondary market. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely in the future. The trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to quarter-to-quarter variations in our operating results, material announcements made by us from time to time, governmental regulatory action, general conditions in the healthcare industry, or other events, or factors, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, which have particularly affected the market prices of many healthcare services companies and which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Our operating results in future quarters may be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In this event, the price of our common stock would likely decline, perhaps substantially. 15 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions in our certificate of incorporation and state corporate laws could deter or prevent take-over attempts by a potential purchaser of our common stock and deprive you of the opportunity to obtain a takeover premium for your shares. In many cases, stockholders receive a premium for their shares when a company is purchased by another. Various provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and state corporate laws could deter and make it more difficult for a third party to bring about a merger, sale of control, or similar transaction without approval of our board of directors. These provisions tend to perpetuate existing management. As a result, our stockholders may be deprived of opportunities to sell some or all of their shares at prices that represent a premium over market prices. These provisions, which could make it less likely that a change in control will occur, include: • provisions in our certificate of incorporation establishing three classes of directors with staggered terms, which means that only one-third of the members of the board of directors is elected each year and each director serves for a term of three years. • provisions in our certificate of incorporation authorizing the board of directors to issue a series of preferred stock without stockholder action, which issuance could discourage a third party from attempting to acquire, or make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, a controlling interest in us. We do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain future earnings, if any, for use in the operation and expansion of our business. Consequently, we do not plan to pay dividends until we recover any losses that we have incurred. Additionally, our future dividend policy will depend on our earnings, financial condition, liquidity and other factors that our Board of Directors considers relevant. Stockholders may suffer dilution in their interests in our common stock if we offer additional shares of common stock in the future or if certain third parties exercise their option rights to acquire additional shares of our common stock. Although we have no present intent to offer for sale additional shares of common stock, we cannot ensure that, in the future, we will not have to seek additional capital by offering and selling additional shares of common stock in order to continue to operate, acquire additional medical practices in our current or other markets, or achieve successful operations. If it becomes necessary to raise additional capital to support our operations, there is no assurance that additional capital will be available to us, that additional capital can be obtained on terms favorable to us, or that the price of any additional shares that may be offered by us in the future will not be less than the subscription price paid by our stockholders. Although the precise effect on existing stockholders of sales of additional shares of common stock cannot presently be determined, either or both the ownership and voting percentage and the relative value of shares of common stock held by our existing stockholders could be diluted by our issuance of additional stock. As of February 28, 2010, BCBS owned in the aggregate 6,726,019 shares, or approximately 67.71 percent, of our outstanding common stock. Under various agreements among BCHP and us, we have given these companies the right at any time to purchase from us the number of shares of our voting stock as is necessary for BCBS and its affiliated entity, as a group, to obtain and then maintain an aggregate ownership of not less than 48 percent of our outstanding voting stock. To the extent the BCBS subsidiary exercises its right in conjunction with a sale of voting stock by us to other parties, the price to be paid by the BCBS subsidiary is the average price to be paid by the other purchasers in that sale. Otherwise, the price is the average closing bid price of our voting stock on the ten trading days immediately preceding the election by the BCBS subsidiary to exercise its purchase rights. Consequently, to the extent the BCBS subsidiary elects to exercise any or a portion of its rights under these anti-dilution agreements, the sale of shares of common stock to the BCBS subsidiary will have the effect of further reducing the percentage voting interest in us represented by a share of the common stock. Certain affiliates have the ability to exercise substantial influence. The substantial ownership of our common stock by the BCBS subsidiary and other of our affiliates may provide them with the ability to exercise substantial influence over, or based on the present ownership of the BCBS subsidiary, determine the outcome of, the election of directors and other matters submitted for approval by our stockholders. As a result, other stockholders may be unable to successfully oppose matters that are presented by these entities for action by stockholders, or to take actions that are opposed by these entities. The ownership by these entities may also have the effect of delaying, deterring, or preventing a change in our control without the consent of these entities. These effects could reduce the value of our stock. In addition, sales of common stock by these entities could result in another stockholder obtaining control over us. 16 Table of Contents We are dependent upon the good reputation of our physicians. The success of our business is dependent upon quality medical services being rendered by our physicians. As the patient-physician relationship involves inherent trust and confidence, any negative publicity, whether from civil litigation, allegations of criminal misconduct, or forfeiture of medical licenses, with respect to any of our physicians and/or our facilities could adversely affect our results of operations. Our revenues and profits could be diminished if we lose the services of key physicians. Substantially all of our revenues are derived from medical services performed by physicians. Some of our physicians produce more revenue than other physicians in our Company. Certain of these higher producing physicians could retire, become disabled, terminate their employment agreements or provider contracts, or otherwise become unable or unwilling to continue generating revenues at the current level, or discontinue practicing medicine within our organization. Patients who have been served by those physicians could choose to request medical services from our competitors, reducing our revenues and profits. Moreover, we may not be able to attract or retain other qualified physicians into our Company to replace the services of such physicians. We may become subject to claims of medical malpractice for which our insurance coverage may not be adequate. Such claims could materially increase our costs and reduce our profitability. Since we are involved in the delivery of healthcare services to the public, we are exposed to the risk of professional liability claims. Claims of this nature, if successful, could result in substantial damage awards to the claimants, which may exceed the limits of any applicable insurance coverage. We are currently insured under policies in amounts management deems appropriate, based upon historical claims and the nature and risk of our business. Nevertheless, there are exclusions and exceptions to coverage under each insurance policy that may make coverage for any claim unavailable, future claims could exceed the limits of available insurance coverage, existing insurers could become insolvent and fail to meet their obligations to provide coverage for such claims, and such coverage may not always be available with sufficient limits and at reasonable cost to adequately and economically insure us in the future. A judgment against us could materially increase our costs and reduce our profitability. Our business is concentrated in specific geographic locations and could be affected by a depressed economy in these areas. We provide our services primarily in South Carolina and have one center in Tennessee. A stagnant or depressed economy in South Carolina could affect all of our markets and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Terrorist attacks, acts of war, natural disasters or other catastrophic events may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Our centers are vulnerable to damage from hurricanes, tornados, fires, floods, power losses, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, acts of terrorism, acts of war and similar events that may cause an interruption in our business. Any such catastrophic event or other unexpected disruption of one or more of our centers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, future terrorist attacks, acts of war, natural disasters or other catastrophic events may adversely affect prevailing economic conditions generally. These events, depending on their magnitude, could have a material effect on our operating results and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no comments from the staff of the SEC regarding our periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act that remain unresolved. 