D. Risk Factors You should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this Form 20-F, including the following risk factors, when investing in our securities. The risks described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we presently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. We could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. This Form 20-F also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by such forward-looking statements. We are substantially dependent on revenues from Tysabri. Sales of our only marketed product Tysabri represented approximately 85% of our total revenues and approximately 100% of our pro forma revenues (see page 38 for a reconciliation Elan’s total GAAP revenues to 5 Table of Contents pro forma Elan revenues) during 2011. The Elan Drug Technologies (EDT) business, which we sold to Alkermes, Inc. on September 16, 2011, accounted for approximately 14% of our total revenues in 2011. Although we continue to seek to discover and develop additional products for commercial introduction, we may be substantially dependent on sales from Tysabri for many years. Any negative developments relating to Tysabri, such as safety, efficacy or reimbursement issues, the introduction or greater acceptance of competing products, including biosimilars, or adverse regulatory or legislative developments may reduce our revenues and adversely affect our results of operations. New competing products for use in multiple sclerosis (MS) are beginning to (or will soon) enter the market, including BG-12 which our collaborator, Biogen Idec has in late stage development, and if they have a similar or more attractive profile in terms of efficacy, convenience or safety, future sales of Tysabri could be limited, which would reduce our revenues. Tysabri’s sales growth cannot be assured given the significant restrictions on its use and the significant safety warnings in the label, including the risk of developing PML, a serious brain infection. The risk of developing PML increases with prior immunosuppressant (IS) use, which may cause patients who have previously received immunosuppressants or their physicians to refrain from using or prescribing Tysabri. The risk of developing PML also increases with longer treatment duration, with limited experience beyond four years. This may cause prescribing physicians or patients to suspend treatment with Tysabri. In addition, the risk of developing PML is heightened when a patient has anti-JC virus (JCV) antibodies. In January 2012, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved a product label change for Tysabri that identifies anti-JCV antibody status as a risk factor for PML. This risk had already been incorporated into the European label for Tysabri in June 2011. Physicians have discontinued treatment and are likely to continue to discontinue treatment with Tysabri in patients who test positive for JCV antibodies. Increased incidences of PML could limit sales growth, prompt regulatory review, require significant changes to the label or result in market withdrawal. Additional regulatory restrictions on the use of Tysabri or safety-related label changes, including enhanced risk management programs, whether as a result of additional cases of PML or otherwise, may significantly reduce expected revenues and require significant expense and management time to address the associated legal and regulatory issues. In addition, ongoing or future clinical trials involving Tysabri, efforts at stratifying patients into groups with lower or higher risk for developing PML and the commercial availability of the JCV antibody assay may have an adverse impact on prescribing behavior and reduce sales of Tysabri. Further, the utility of the JCV antibody assay may be diminished as a result of the assay’s false negative rate and because a patient who tests negative for JCV antibodies may be infected by the JCV after testing. Our long-term success depends upon the successful development and commercialization of other product candidates. Our long-term viability and growth will depend upon the successful discovery, development and commercialization of other products from our R&D activities, including bapineuzumab, which is being developed by Johnson & Johnson and Pfizer and in which we retain an approximate 25% economic interest. Product development and commercialization are very expensive and involve a high degree of risk. Only a small number of R&D programs result in the commercialization of a product. Success in preclinical work or early stage clinical trials does not ensure that later stage or larger scale clinical trials will be successful. Even if later stage clinical trials are successful, product candidates may not receive marketing approval if regulatory authorities disagree with our view of the data or require additional studies. We have substantial cash needs and we may not be successful in generating or otherwise obtaining the funds necessary to meet our cash needs. As of December 31, 2011, we had $624.5 million of debt falling due in October 2016 (2010: $1,285.0 million, comprised of $460.0 million that was due in December 2013 and $825.0 million due in October 2016). At such date, we had total cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash and cash equivalents and investments of $298.1 million (2010: $453.3 million). Our substantial indebtedness could have important adverse consequences to us. For example, it does or could: • Increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; 6 Table of Contents • Require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund R&D (including our funding commitments to Janssen Alzheimer Immunotherapy (Janssen AI) for the AIP), working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments and other general corporate purposes; • Limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the markets in which we operate; • Place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • Limit our ability to borrow additional funds. We estimate that we have sufficient cash, liquid resources and current assets and investments to meet our liquidity requirements for at least the next 12 months. Our future operating performance will be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and business conditions and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Even if our future operating performance does meet our expectations, including continuing to successfully commercialize Tysabri, we may need to obtain additional funds to meet our longer term liquidity requirements. We may not be able to obtain those funds on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, which would force us to curtail programs, sell assets or otherwise take steps to reduce expenses or cease operations. Any of these steps may have a material adverse effect on our prospects. Restrictive covenants in our debt instruments restrict or prohibit our ability to engage in or enter into a variety of transactions and could adversely affect us. The agreements governing our outstanding indebtedness contain various restrictive covenants that limit our financial and operating flexibility. The covenants do not require us to maintain or adhere to any specific financial ratio, but do restrict within limits our ability to, among other things: • Incur additional debt; • Create liens; • Enter into transactions with related parties; • Enter into some types of investment transactions; • Engage in some asset sales or sale and leaseback transactions; • Pay dividends or buy back our shares; and • Consolidate, merge with, or sell substantially all our assets to another entity. The breach of any of these covenants may result in a default under the applicable agreement, which could result in the indebtedness under the agreement becoming immediately due and payable. Any such acceleration would result in a default under our other indebtedness subject to cross-acceleration provisions. If this were to occur, we might not be able to pay our debts or obtain sufficient funds to refinance them on reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, complying with these covenants may make it more difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategies and compete against companies not subject to similar constraints. We depend on Johnson & Johnson, in addition to Pfizer, for the clinical development and potential commercialization of bapineuzumab and any other AIP products. On September 17, 2009, Janssen AI, a newly formed subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson, completed the acquisition of substantially all of our assets and rights related to the AIP. In addition, Johnson & Johnson, through its affiliate Janssen Pharmaceutical, invested $885.0 million in exchange for newly issued American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) of Elan, representing 18.4% of our outstanding Ordinary Shares at the time. Johnson & Johnson also committed to fund up to $500.0 million towards the further development and commercialization of AIP to the extent the funding is required by the collaboration. In the event that either an AIP product reaches market and Janssen AI is in a positive operating cash flow position, or the AIP is terminated 7 Table of Contents before the initial $500.0 million funding commitment has been spent, Johnson & Johnson is not required to contribute the full $500.0 million. As of December 31, 2011, the remaining unspent amount of the Johnson & Johnson $500.0 million funding commitment was $57.6 million (2010: $272.0 million), which reflects the $214.4 million utilized in 2011 (2010: $179.0 million). Any required additional expenditures in respect of Janssen AI’s obligations under the AIP collaboration in excess of the initial $500.0 million funding commitment is required to be funded by Elan and Johnson & Johnson in proportion to their respective shareholdings up to a maximum additional commitment of $400.0 million in total. Based on current spend levels, we anticipate that we will be called upon to provide funding to Janssen AI commencing in the second quarter of 2012. In the event that further funding is required beyond the $400.0 million, such funding will be on terms determined by the board of Janssen AI, with Johnson & Johnson and Elan having a right of first offer to provide additional funding. If we fail to provide our share of the $400.0 million commitment or any additional funding that is required for the development of the AIP, and if Johnson & Johnson elects to fund such an amount, our interest in Janssen AI could, at the option of Johnson & Johnson, be commensurately reduced. We refer to these transactions as the “Johnson & Johnson Transaction” in this Form 20-F. The Johnson & Johnson Transaction resulted in the assignment of our AIP collaboration agreement with Wyeth (which has been acquired by Pfizer) and associated business, which primarily constituted intellectual property, to Janssen AI. While we have a 49.9% equity interest in Janssen AI, Johnson & Johnson exercises effective control over Janssen AI and consequently over our share of the AIP collaboration. As a result of the Johnson & Johnson Transaction, our financial interest in the AIP collaboration has been reduced from approximately 50% to approximately 25%. The success of the AIP collaboration will be dependent, in part, on the efforts of Johnson & Johnson. The interests of Johnson & Johnson may not be aligned with our interests. The failure of Johnson & Johnson to pursue the development and commercialization of AIP products in the same manner we would have pursued such development and commercialization could materially and adversely affect us. Future returns from the Johnson & Johnson Transaction are dependent, in part, on the successful development and commercialization of bapineuzumab and other potential AIP products. Under the terms of the Johnson & Johnson Transaction, in general, we are entitled to a 49.9% share of all net profits generated by Janssen AI beginning from the date Janssen AI becomes net profitable, and certain royalty payments from Janssen AI in respect of sales of bapineuzumab and other potential AIP products. Royalties will generally only arise after Johnson & Johnson has earned profits from the AIP equal to Johnson & Johnson’s (up to) $500.0 million initial investment. Any such payments are dependent on the future commercial success of bapineuzumab and other potential AIP products. If no drug is successfully developed and commercialized, we may not receive any profit or royalty payments from Janssen AI. Almost all of our investments are shares of Alkermes plc which we are restricted in transferring or disposing. We own approximately 25% of the outstanding shares of Alkermes plc, which acquired our EDT business on September 16, 2011. The transfer or disposition of these shares is restricted by securities law and by contract. We do not know when or whether we will be able to dispose of these Alkermes plc shares, or, if we can dispose of these shares, what value we will receive for these Alkermes plc shares. If the value of Alkermes plc shares should fall substantially before we can dispose of our holdings of Alkermes plc shares, then the market value of our investment in Alkermes plc shares will be commensurately reduced. Our industry is highly competitive. Our principal pharmaceutical competitors consist of major international companies, many of which are larger and have greater financial resources, technical staff, manufacturing, R&D and marketing capabilities than us. We also compete with smaller research companies and generic and biosimilar drug manufacturers. In addition, our collaborator on Tysabri, Biogen Idec, markets a competing MS therapy, Avonex® and has another potentially competitive MS therapy (BG-12) in late stage development. 8 Table of Contents A drug may be subject to competition from alternative therapies during the period of patent protection or regulatory exclusivity and, thereafter, it may be subject to further competition from generic or biosimilar products. The price of pharmaceutical products typically declines as competition increases. Tysabri sales may be very sensitive to additional new competing products (in particular, from oral therapies approved or filed for U.S. and European approvals or under development). If these products have a similar or more attractive overall profile in terms of efficacy, convenience and/or safety, future sales of Tysabri could be adversely impacted. Generic and biosimilar competitors do not have to bear the same level of R&D and other expenses associated with bringing a new branded product to market. As a result, they can charge less for a competing version of a product. Managed care organizations (MCOs) typically favor generics over brand name drugs, and governments encourage, or under some circumstances mandate, the use of generic products, thereby reducing the sales of branded products that are no longer patent protected. Governmental and other pressures toward the dispensing of generic or biosimilar products may rapidly and significantly reduce, or slow the growth in, the sales and profitability of any products not protected by patents or regulatory exclusivity and may adversely affect our future results and financial condition. The launch of competitive products, including generic or biosimilar versions of products, has had and may have a material and adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. Our competitive position depends, in part, upon our continuing ability to discover, acquire and develop innovative, cost-effective new products, as well as new indications and product improvements, and to protect all of this with patents and other intellectual property rights. We also compete on the basis of price and product differentiation. If we fail to maintain our competitive position, then our revenues and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to obtain or enforce patent rights, trade secrets or other intellectual property, then our revenues and potential revenues may be materially reduced. Because of the significant time and expense involved in developing new products in our industry and obtaining regulatory approvals, it is very important to obtain patent and other intellectual property protection for new technologies, products and processes. Our success depends in large part on our continued ability to obtain patents for products and technologies, maintain patent protection for both acquired and developed products, preserve our trade secrets, obtain and preserve other intellectual property such as trademarks and copyrights, and operate without infringing the valid and enforceable proprietary rights of third parties. The degree of patent protection that will be afforded to technologies, products and processes, including ours, in the United States and in other markets is dependent upon the scope of protection provided by patent offices, courts and legislatures in these countries. There is no certainty that our existing patents or, if obtained, future patents, will provide us with substantial protection or commercial benefit. In addition, there is no assurance that our patent applications or patent applications licensed from third parties will ultimately be granted or that those patents that have been issued or are issued in the future will prevail in any court challenge. Our competitors may also develop products, including generic or biosimilar products, similar to ours using methods and technologies that are beyond the scope of our patent protection, which could adversely affect the sales of our products. Although we believe that we make reasonable efforts to protect our intellectual property rights and to ensure that our proprietary technology does not infringe the valid and enforceable rights of other parties, we cannot ascertain the existence of all potentially conflicting claims. Therefore, there is a risk that third parties may make claims of infringement against our product or technologies. In addition, third parties may be able to obtain patents that prevent the sale or use of our products or require us to obtain a license and pay significant fees or royalties in order to continue selling our products. There has been, and we expect there will continue to be, significant litigation in the industry regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. Litigation and other proceedings concerning patents and other intellectual property rights in which we are involved have been and will continue to be protracted and expensive and could be distracting to our management and business operations. Our competitors have sued and may sue us or our collaborators as a means of delaying the introduction of products, or to extract royalties against a marketed product. Any litigation, interference proceedings, re-examinations or oppositions against us or our licensors, may 9 Table of Contents be costly and time consuming and could adversely affect us. In addition, litigation has been and may be instituted to determine the validity, scope or non-infringement of patent rights claimed by third parties to be pertinent to the manufacturing, use or sale of our or their products. The outcome of any such litigation could adversely affect the validity and scope of our patents or other intellectual property rights, hinder, delay or prevent the marketing and sale of our products and cost us substantial sums of money. If there are significant delays in the manufacture or supply of Tysabri or in the supply of raw materials for Tysabri, then sales of Tysabri could be materially and adversely affected. Biogen Idec manufactures Tysabri. Our dependence upon Biogen Idec for the manufacture of Tysabri may result in unforeseen delays or other problems beyond our control. For example, if Biogen Idec is not in compliance with current good manufacturing practices (cGMP) or other applicable regulatory requirements, then the supply of Tysabri could be materially and adversely affected. If Biogen Idec experiences delays or difficulties in producing Tysabri, then sales of Tysabri could be materially and adversely affected. Biogen Idec requires supplies of raw materials for the manufacture of Tysabri. Biogen Idec does not have dual sourcing of all required raw materials. The inability to obtain sufficient quantities of required raw materials could materially and adversely affect the supply of Tysabri. We are subject to pricing pressures and uncertainties regarding healthcare reimbursement and reform. In the United States, many pharmaceutical products and biologics are subject to increasing pricing pressures. Our ability to commercialize products successfully depends, in part, upon the extent to which healthcare providers are reimbursed by third-party payers, such as governmental agencies, including the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, private health insurers and other organizations, such as health maintenance organizations (HMOs), for the cost of such products and related treatments. In addition, if healthcare providers do not view current or future Medicare reimbursements for our products favorably, then they may not prescribe our products. Third party payers are increasingly challenging the pricing of pharmaceutical products by, among other things, limiting the pharmaceutical products that are on their formulary lists. As a result, competition among pharmaceutical companies to place their products on these formulary lists has reduced product prices. If reasonable reimbursement for our products is unavailable or if significant downward pricing pressures in the industry occur, then we could be materially and adversely affected. The Obama Administration and the Congress in the United States have significantly changed U.S. healthcare law and regulation, which may change the manner by which drugs and biologics are developed, marketed and purchased. In addition, MCOs, HMOs, preferred provider organizations, institutions and other government agencies continue to seek price discounts. Further, some states in the United States have proposed and some other states have adopted various programs to control prices for their seniors’ and low-income drug programs, including price or patient reimbursement constraints, restrictions on access to certain products, importation from other countries, such as Canada, and bulk purchasing of drugs. We encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most other countries. In the European Union and some other international markets, the government provides healthcare at low direct cost to consumers and regulates pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system. Many countries are seeking to reduce their public expenditures on healthcare. These efforts may result in patient access restrictions, increased pressure on drug pricing, including denial of price increases, prospective and retrospective price decreases and increased mandatory discounts or rebates. For instance, a revenue reserve of $14.1 million was recorded in 2011 on Tysabri in-market sales in Italy, arising from a disagreement between Biogen Idec and the Italian Medicines Agency on a contract interpretation of a limit established by the agency in 2007. The revenue reserve is discussed further on page 40. The sovereign debt crisis in Europe and elsewhere may accelerate efforts by governments to cut public expenditures on healthcare. These efforts may negatively impact Tysabri. 10 Table of Contents We settled with the U.S. government with respect to its investigation of the marketing practices concerning our former Zonegran product which required us to pay $203.5 million in criminal and civil fines and penalties and take other actions that could have a material adverse effect on us. In December 2010, we resolved all aspects of the U.S. Department of Justice’s investigation of sales and marketing practices for Zonegran, an antiepileptic prescription medicine that we divested in 2004. In the first quarter of 2011, we paid $203.5 million pursuant to the terms of a global settlement of all U.S. federal and related state Medicaid claims. In addition, we pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor violation of the U.S. Federal Food Drug & Cosmetic Act (FD&C Act) and entered into a Corporate Integrity Agreement with the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services to promote our compliance with the requirements of U.S. federal healthcare programs and the FDA. If we materially fail to comply with the requirements of U.S. federal healthcare programs or the FDA, or otherwise materially breach the terms of the Corporate Integrity Agreement, such as by a material breach of the compliance program or reporting obligations of the Corporate Integrity Agreement, severe sanctions could be imposed upon us. This resolution of the Zonegran investigation could give rise to other investigations or litigation by state government entities or private parties. The pharmaceutical industry is subject to anti-kickback, bribery and false claims laws in the United States and elsewhere. In addition to the FDA restrictions on marketing of pharmaceutical products, several other types of state and federal laws have been applied to restrict some marketing practices in the pharmaceutical industry in recent years. These laws include anti-kickback, bribery and false claims statutes. The federal healthcare program anti-kickback statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting, or receiving remuneration to induce or in return for, purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any healthcare item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid or other federally financed healthcare programs. This statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on one hand, and prescribers, purchasers and formulary managers on the other. Although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting some common activities from prosecution, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that involve remuneration intended to induce prescribing, purchases or recommendations may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor. Our practices may not in all cases meet all of the criteria for safe harbor protection from anti-kickback liability. Federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. In recent years, many pharmaceutical and other healthcare companies have been prosecuted under these laws for allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product. Additionally, we and other pharmaceutical companies have settled charges under the federal False Claims Act, and related state laws, relating to off-label promotion. We are now operating under a Corporate Integrity Agreement with the Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to promote our compliance with the requirements of U.S. federal healthcare programs and the FDA. If we materially fail to comply with the requirements of U.S. federal healthcare programs or the FDA, or otherwise materially breach the terms of the Corporate Integrity Agreement, such as by a material breach of the compliance program or reporting obligations of the Corporate Integrity Agreement, severe sanctions could be imposed upon us. The majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items, and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payer. Sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a manufacturer’s products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines, and imprisonment. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and the United Kingdom Bribery Act (U.K. Bribery Act) prohibits companies and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to foreign officials (and some private individuals under the U.K. Bribery Act) for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business abroad. In many countries, the healthcare professionals we interact with may meet the 11 Table of Contents definition of a foreign government official for purposes of the FCPA. Failure to comply with domestic or foreign laws could result in various adverse consequences, including possible delay in approval or refusal to approve a product, recalls, seizures, withdrawal of an approved product from the market, the imposition of civil or criminal sanctions and the prosecution of executives overseeing our international operations. We are subject to extensive government regulation, which may adversely affect our ability to bring new products to market and may adversely affect Tysabri. The pharmaceutical industry is subject to significant regulation by state, local, national and international governmental regulatory authorities. In the United States, the FDA, and in the European Union, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) regulate the design, development, preclinical and clinical testing, manufacturing, labeling, storing, distribution, import, export, record keeping, reporting, marketing and promotion of pharmaceutical products, which include drugs, biologics and medical devices. Failure to comply with regulatory requirements at any stage during the regulatory process could result in, among other things, delays in the approval of applications or supplements to approved applications, refusal of a regulatory authority to review pending market approval applications or supplements to approved applications, warning letters, fines, import or export restrictions, product recalls or seizures, injunctions, total or partial suspension of production, civil penalties, withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications or licenses, recommendations by the FDA or other regulatory authorities against governmental contracts, and criminal prosecutions. We must obtain and maintain approval for products from regulatory authorities before such products may be sold in a particular jurisdiction. The submission of an application to a regulatory authority with respect to a product does not guarantee that approval to market the product will be granted. Each authority generally imposes its own requirements and may delay or refuse to grant approval, even though a product has been approved in another country. In our principal markets, including the United States, the approval process for a new product is complex, lengthy, expensive and subject to unanticipated delays. We cannot be sure when or whether approvals from regulatory authorities will be received or that the terms of any approval will not impose significant limitations that could negatively impact the potential profitability of the approved product. Even after a product is approved, it may be subject to regulatory action based on newly discovered facts about the safety and efficacy of the product, on any activities that regulatory authorities consider to be improper or as a result of changes in regulatory policy. Regulatory action may have a material adverse effect on the marketing of a product, require changes in the product’s labeling or even lead to the withdrawal of the regulatory marketing approval of the product. All facilities and manufacturing techniques used for the manufacture of products and devices for clinical use or for sale in the United States must be operated in conformity with cGMPs, the FDA’s regulations governing the production of pharmaceutical products. There are comparable regulations in other countries, including regulations issued by the EMA for the European Union. Any finding by the FDA, the EMA or other regulatory authority that we are not in substantial compliance with cGMP regulations or that we or our employees have engaged in activities in violation of these regulations could interfere with the continued manufacture and distribution of the affected products, up to the entire output of such products, and, in some cases, might also require the recall of previously distributed products. Any such finding by the FDA, the EMA or other regulatory agency could also affect our ability to obtain new approvals until such issues are resolved. The FDA, the EMA and other regulatory authorities conduct scheduled periodic regulatory inspections of facilities to ensure compliance with cGMP regulations. Any determination by the FDA, the EMA or other regulatory authority that we, or one of our suppliers, are not in substantial compliance with these regulations or are otherwise engaged in improper or illegal activities could result in substantial fines and other penalties and could cut off our product supply. Our business exposes us to risks of environmental liabilities. We use hazardous materials, chemicals and toxic compounds that could expose people or property to accidental contamination and result in events of non-compliance with environmental laws, regulatory enforcement and claims related to personal injury and property damage. If an accident occurred or if we were to discover contamination caused by prior operations, then we could be liable for cleanup, damages or fines, which could have an adverse effect on us. 12 Table of Contents The environmental laws of many jurisdictions impose actual and potential obligations on us to remediate contaminated sites. These obligations may relate to sites that we currently own or lease, sites that we formerly owned or operated, or sites where waste from our operations was disposed. These environmental remediation obligations could significantly impact our operating results. Stricter environmental, safety and health laws and enforcement policies could result in substantial costs and liabilities to us, and could subject our handling, manufacture, use, reuse or disposal of substances or pollutants to more rigorous scrutiny than is currently the case. Consequently, compliance with these laws could result in significant capital expenditures, as well as other costs and liabilities, which could materially adversely affect us. If we fail to comply with our reporting and payment obligations under the Medicaid rebate program or other governmental pricing programs, then we could be subject to material reimbursements, penalties, sanctions and fines. As a condition of reimbursement under Medicaid, we participate in the U.S. federal Medicaid rebate program, as well as several state rebate programs. Under the federal and state Medicaid rebate programs, we pay a rebate to each state for a product that is reimbursed by those programs. The amount of the rebate for each unit of product is set by law, based on reported pricing data. The rebate amount may also include a penalty if our prices increase faster than the rate of inflation. For manufacturers of single-source, innovator and non-innovator multiple-source products, rebate calculations vary among products and programs. The calculations are complex and, in some respects, subject to interpretation by governmental or regulatory agencies, the courts and us. The Medicaid rebate amount is computed each quarter based on our pricing data submission to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The terms of our participation in the program impose an obligation to correct the prices reported in previous quarters, as may be necessary. Any such corrections could result in an overage or shortfall in our rebate liability for past quarters (up to 12 past quarters), depending on the direction of the correction. Governmental agencies may also make changes in program interpretations, requirements or conditions of participation, some of which may have implications for amounts previously estimated or paid. U.S. federal law requires that any company that participates in the federal Medicaid rebate program extend comparable discounts to qualified purchasers under the Public Health Service’s (PHS) pharmaceutical pricing program. This pricing program extends discounts comparable to the Medicaid net price to a variety of community health clinics and other entities that receive health services grants from the PHS, as well as outpatient utilization at hospitals that serve a disproportionate share of poor patients. Additionally, each calendar quarter, we calculate and report an Average Sales Price (ASP) for Tysabri, which is covered by Medicare Part B (primarily injectable or infused products). We submit ASP information for Tysabri within 30 days of the end of each calendar quarter. This information is then used to set reimbursement levels to reimburse Part B providers for the drugs and biologicals dispensed to Medicare Part B participants. Furthermore, pursuant to the Veterans Health Care Act, a Non-Federal Average Manufacturer Price is calculated each quarter and a Federal Ceiling Price is calculated each year for Tysabri. These prices are used to set pricing for purchases by the military arm of the government. These price reporting obligations are complicated and often involve decisions regarding issues for which there is no clear-cut guidance from the government. Failure to submit correct pricing data can subject us to material civil, administrative and criminal penalties. We are subject to continuing potential product liability risks, in particular with respect to Tysabri, which could cost us material amounts of money. Risks relating to product liability claims are inherent in the development, manufacturing and marketing of products. Any person who is injured while using our product, or products that we are responsible for, may have a product liability claim against us. Since we distribute a product to a wide number of end users, the risk of such claims could be material. Persons who participate in our clinical trials may also bring liability claims. We are a defendant in product liability actions related to products that Elan marketed. In addition, we are defendants in 13 Table of Contents product liability lawsuits arising out of serious adverse events, including deaths, that occurred in patients taking Tysabri. We expect additional product liability lawsuits related to Tysabri usage to be filed. While we intend to vigorously defend these lawsuits, we cannot predict how these cases will be resolved. Adverse results in one or more of these cases could result in substantial monetary judgments against us. Excluding any self-insured arrangements, we do not maintain product liability insurance for the first $10.0 million of aggregate claims, but do maintain coverage with our insurers for the next $140.0 million. Our current insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover fully all potential claims, nor can we guarantee the solvency of any of our insurers. If our claims experience results in higher rates, or if product liability insurance otherwise becomes costlier because of general economic, market or industry conditions, then we may not be able to maintain product liability coverage on acceptable terms. If sales of our product increase materially, or if we add significant products to our portfolio, then we will require increased coverage and may not be able to secure such coverage at reasonable rates or terms. We and some of our officers and directors were named as defendants in putative class actions; an adverse outcome in the class actions could result in a substantial judgment against us. We and some of our officers and directors were named as defendants in five putative class action lawsuits filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York in 2008. The cases have been consolidated. The plaintiffs’ Consolidated Amended Complaint was filed on August 17, 2009, and alleged claims under the U.S. federal securities laws and sought damages on behalf of all purchasers of our stock during periods ranging between May 21, 2007 and October 21, 2008. The complaint alleged that we issued false and misleading public statements concerning the safety and efficacy of bapineuzumab. In July 2010, a second securities case was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, as a “related case” to the existing 2008 matter, by purchasers of Elan call options during the period of June and July 2008. These cases have been dismissed with prejudice by the trial court, but an appeal has been filed to the 2nd Circuit by the plaintiffs in the related case. Adverse results in this lawsuit or in any litigation to which we are a party could have a material adverse affect on us. Our sales and operations are subject to the risks of fluctuations in currency exchange rates and to the risk of a partial or total collapse of the euro. Our headquarters are in Ireland and three of the major markets for Tysabri are Germany, France and Italy. As a result, changes in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the euro can have significant effects on our results of operations. In addition, the partial or total collapse of the euro would cause severe and adverse consequences to sales of Tysabri in Europe and to reimbursements for sales of Tysabri in Europe. Provisions of agreements to which we are a party may discourage or prevent a third party from acquiring us and could prevent our shareholders from receiving a premium for their shares. We are a party to agreements that may discourage a takeover attempt that might be viewed as beneficial to our shareholders who wish to receive a premium for their shares from a potential bidder. For example: • Our collaboration agreement with Biogen Idec provides Biogen Idec with an option to buy the rights to Tysabri in the event that we undergo a change of control, which may limit our attractiveness to potential acquirers; • Johnson & Johnson is our largest shareholder and is largely in control of our share of the AIP; however, Johnson & Johnson and its affiliates are subject to a standstill agreement until September 17, 2014, pursuant to which, subject to limited exceptions, they will not be permitted to acquire additional shares in Elan or take other actions to acquire control of Elan; • The Corporate Integrity Agreement that we entered into with the U.S. government with respect to the settlement of the Zonegran matter contains provisions that may require any acquirer to assume the 14 Table of Contents obligations imposed by the Corporate Integrity Agreement, which may limit our attractiveness to a potential acquirer; and • Under the terms of indentures governing much of our debt, any acquirer would be required to make an offer to repurchase the debt for cash in connection with some change of control events. 