D. Risk Factors You should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this Form 20-F, including the following risk factors, when investing in our securities. The risks described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we presently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. We could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. This Form 20-F also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by such forward-looking statements. Our future success depends upon the continued successful commercialization of Tysabri and the successful development and commercialization of additional products. If Tysabri is not commercially successful, either because of the incidence of serious adverse events associated with Tysabri (including cases of PML) or for other reasons, or if our Phase 2 and 3 clinical trials for AAB-001 are not successful and we do not successfully develop and commercialize additional products, we will be materially and adversely affected. While approximately 40% of our 2007 revenue was generated by our Elan Drug Technologies (EDT) business unit, we have only four marketed products and several potential products in clinical development. Our future success depends upon the continued successful commercialization of Tysabri and the development and the successful commercialization of additional products. Uncertainty created by the serious adverse events that have occurred or may occur, with respect to Tysabri, and the restrictive labeling and distribution system for Tysabri mandated by regulatory agencies, may significantly impair the commercial potential for Tysabri. If there are more serious adverse events in patients treated with Tysabri (including cases of PML), then we may be seriously and adversely affected. We commit substantial resources to our R&D activities, including collaborations with third parties such as Biogen Idec Inc. (Biogen Idec) with respect to Tysabri, and Wyeth and Transition Therapeutics, Inc. (Transition), with respect to parts of our Alzheimer’s disease (AD) programs. We have committed significant resources to the development and the commercialization of Tysabri and to the other potential products in our development pipeline (in particular, AAB-001). These investments may not be successful. In the pharmaceutical industry, the R&D process is lengthy, expensive and involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty. This process is conducted in various stages and, during each stage, there is a substantial risk that potential products in our R&D pipeline, including product candidates from our Alzheimer’s disease research programs such as AAB-001, ELND005 and ACC-001, will experience difficulties, delays or failures. If our Phase 2 and 3 clinical trials for AAB-001 are not successfully completed, we will be materially and adversely affected. 5 Table of Contents A number of factors could affect our ability to successfully develop and commercialize products, including our ability to: • Establish sufficient safety and efficacy of new drugs or biologics; • Obtain and protect necessary intellectual property for new technologies, products and processes; • Recruit patients in clinical trials; • Complete clinical trials on a timely basis; • Observe applicable regulatory requirements; • Receive and maintain required regulatory approvals; • Obtain competitive/favorable reimbursement coverage for developed products on a timely basis; • Manufacture or have manufactured sufficient commercial quantities of products at reasonable costs; • Effectively market developed products; and • Compete successfully against alternative products or therapies. Even if we obtain positive results from preclinical or clinical trials, we may not achieve the same success in future trials. Earlier stage trials are generally based on a limited number of patients and may, upon review, be revised or negated by authorities or by later stage clinical results. The results from preclinical testing and early clinical trials have often not been predictive of results obtained in later clinical trials. A number of new drugs and biologics have shown promising results in initial clinical trials, but subsequently failed to establish sufficient safety and effectiveness data to obtain necessary regulatory approvals. Data obtained from preclinical and clinical activities are subject to varying interpretations, which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Clinical trials may not demonstrate statistically sufficient safety and effectiveness to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals for product candidates. In addition, as happened with Tysabri, unexpected serious adverse events can occur in patients taking a product after the product has been commercialized. Our failure to successfully commercialize Tysabri and develop and commercialize other products (such as AAB-001) would materially adversely affect us. We have substantial future cash needs and potential cash needs and we may not be successful in generating or otherwise obtaining the funds necessary to meet our other future and potential needs. At December 31, 2007, we had $1,765.0 million of debt. At such date, we had cash and cash equivalents, current restricted cash and current investments of $720.5 million. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to us. For example, it does or could: • Increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • Require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund R&D, working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments and other general corporate purposes; • Limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the markets in which we operate; • Place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • Limit our ability to borrow additional funds. We estimate that we have sufficient cash, liquid resources and current assets and investments to meet our liquidity requirements for at least the next 12 months. Although we expect to continue to incur operating losses in 2008, in making our liquidity estimates, we have also assumed a certain level of operating performance. Our future operating performance will be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and business conditions and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. If our future operating performance does not meet our expectations, including our failure to continue to successfully commercialize Tysabri, then we 6 Table of Contents could be required to obtain additional funds. If our estimates are incorrect or are not consistent with actual future developments and we are required to obtain additional funds, then we may not be able to obtain those funds on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. In addition, if we are not able to generate sufficient liquidity from operations, we may be forced to curtail programs, sell assets or otherwise take steps to reduce expenses. Any of these steps may have a material adverse effect on our prospects. Restrictive covenants in our debt instruments restrict or prohibit our ability to engage in or enter into a variety of transactions, which could adversely affect us. The agreements governing our outstanding indebtedness contain various restrictive covenants that limit our financial and operating flexibility. The covenants do not require us to maintain or adhere to any specific financial ratio, but do restrict within limits our ability to, among other things: • Incur additional debt; • Create liens; • Enter into transactions with related parties; • Enter into some types of investment transactions; • Engage in some asset sales or sale and leaseback transactions; • Pay dividends or buy back our Ordinary Shares; and • Consolidate, merge with, or sell substantially all our assets to, another entity. The breach of any of these covenants may result in a default under the applicable agreement, which could result in the indebtedness under the agreement becoming immediately due and payable. Any such acceleration would result in a default under our other indebtedness subject to cross-acceleration provisions. If this were to occur, we might not be able to pay our debts or obtain sufficient funds to refinance them on reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, complying with these covenants may make it more difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategies and compete against companies not subject to similar constraints. Our industry and the markets for our products are highly competitive. The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive. Our principal pharmaceutical competitors consist of major international companies, many of which are larger and have greater financial resources, technical staff, manufacturing, R&D and marketing capabilities than Elan. We also compete with smaller research companies and generic drug manufacturers. A drug may be subject to competition from alternative therapies during the period of patent protection or regulatory exclusivity and, thereafter, it may be subject to further competition from generic products. The price of pharmaceutical products typically declines as competition increases. Our product Azactam lost its basic U.S. patent protection in October 2005. To date, no generic Azactam product has been approved. In addition, the U.S. basic patent covering our product Maxipime expired in March 2007. Maxipime became subject to generic competition following the expiration of the basic patent, and that has materially and adversely affected our sales of Maxipime. Generic competitors have challenged existing patent protection for several of the products from which we earn manufacturing or royalty revenue. If these challenges are successful, our manufacturing and royalty revenue will be materially and adversely affected. Generic competitors do not have to bear the same level of R&D and other expenses associated with bringing a new branded product to market. As a result, they can charge much less for a competing version of our product. Managed care organizations typically favor generics over brand name drugs, and governments encourage, or under 7 Table of Contents some circumstances mandate, the use of generic products, thereby reducing the sales of branded products that are no longer patent protected. Governmental and other pressures toward the dispensing of generic products may rapidly and significantly reduce, or slow the growth in, the sales and profitability of any of our products not protected by patents or regulatory exclusivity and may adversely affect our future results and financial condition. The launch of competitive products, including generic versions of our products, has had and will have a material and adverse affect on our revenues and results of operations. Our competitive position depends, in part, upon our continuing ability to discover, acquire and develop innovative, cost-effective new products, as well as new indications and product improvements protected by patents and other intellectual property rights. We also compete on the basis of price and product differentiation and through our sales and marketing organization. If we fail to maintain our competitive position, then our revenues and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. If we are unable to secure or enforce patent rights, trade secrets or other intellectual property, then our revenues and potential revenues may be materially reduced and we may be subject to substantial fines and judgments. Because of the significant time and expense involved in developing new products and obtaining regulatory approvals, it is very important to obtain patent and intellectual property protection for new technologies, products and processes. Our success depends in large part on our continued ability to obtain patents for our products and technologies, maintain patent protection for both acquired and developed products, preserve our trade secrets, obtain and preserve other intellectual property such as trademarks and copyrights, and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. The degree of patent protection that will be afforded to technologies, products and processes, including ours, in the United States and in other markets is dependent upon the scope of protection decided upon by patent offices, courts and legislatures in these countries. There is no certainty that our existing patents or, if obtained, future patents, will provide us substantial protection or commercial benefit. In addition, there is no assurance that our patent applications or patent applications licensed from third parties will ultimately be granted or that those patents that have been issued or are issued in the future will prevail in any court challenge. Our competitors may also develop products, including generic products, similar to ours using methods and technologies that are beyond the scope of our patent protection, which could adversely affect the sales of our products. Although we believe that we make reasonable efforts to protect our intellectual property rights and to ensure that our proprietary technology does not infringe the rights of other parties, we cannot ascertain the existence of all potentially conflicting claims. Therefore, there is a risk that third parties may make claims of infringement against our products or technologies. In addition, third parties may be able to obtain patents that prevent the sale of our products or require us to obtain a license and pay significant fees or royalties in order to continue selling our products. There has been, and we expect there will continue to be, significant litigation in the industry regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. Litigation and other proceedings concerning patents and other intellectual property rights in which we are involved have been and will continue to be protracted, expensive and could be distracting to our management. Our competitors may sue us as a means of delaying the introduction of our products. Any litigation, including any interference proceedings to determine priority of inventions, oppositions to patents or litigation against our licensors may be costly and time consuming and could adversely affect us. In addition, litigation has been and may be instituted to determine the validity, scope or non-infringement of patent rights claimed by third parties to be pertinent to the manufacturing, use or sale of our or their products. The outcome of any such litigation could adversely affect the validity and scope of our patents or other intellectual property rights, hinder, delay or prevent the marketing and sale of our products and cost us substantial sums of money. If we experience significant delays in the manufacture of our products or in the supply of raw materials for our products, then sales of our products could be materially adversely affected. We do not manufacture Tysabri, Prialt, Maxipime or Azactam. Our dependence upon collaborators and third parties for the manufacture of our products may result in unforeseen delays or other problems beyond our control. 8 Table of Contents For example, if our third-party manufacturers are not in compliance with current good manufacturing practices (cGMP) or other applicable regulatory requirements, then the supply of our products could be materially adversely affected. If we are unable to retain or obtain replacements for our third-party manufacturers or if we experience delays or difficulties with our third-party manufacturers in producing our products (as we did with Maxipime in 2006 and prior years), then sales of these products could be materially and adversely affected. In this event, we may be unable to enter into alternative manufacturing arrangements on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Our manufacturers require supplies of raw materials for the manufacture of our products. We do not have dual sourcing of our required raw materials. The inability to obtain sufficient quantities of required raw materials could materially adversely affect the supply of our products. Buying patterns of wholesalers and distributors may cause fluctuations in our periodic results. Our product revenue may vary periodically due, in part, to buying patterns of our wholesalers and distributors. In the event that wholesalers and distributors determine, for any reason, to limit purchases of our products, sales of those products would be adversely affected. For example, wholesalers and distributors may order products in larger than normal quantities prior to anticipated price increases for those products. This excess purchasing in any period could cause sales of those products to be lower than expected in subsequent periods. We are subject to pricing pressures and uncertainties regarding healthcare reimbursement and reform. In the United States, many pharmaceutical products and biologics are subject to increasing pricing pressures, including pressures arising from recent Medicare reform. Our ability to commercialize products successfully depends, in part, upon the extent to which healthcare providers are reimbursed by third-party payers, such as governmental agencies, including the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, private health insurers and other organizations, such as health maintenance organizations (HMOs), for the cost of such products and related treatments. In addition, if healthcare providers do not view current or future Medicare reimbursements for our products favorably, then they may not prescribe our products. Third-party payers are increasingly challenging the pricing of pharmaceutical products by, among other things, limiting the pharmaceutical products that are on their formulary lists. As a result, competition among pharmaceutical companies to place their products on these formulary lists has reduced product prices. If reasonable reimbursement for our products is unavailable or if significant downward pricing pressures in the industry occur, then we could be materially adversely affected. Recent reforms in Medicare added a prescription drug reimbursement benefit for all Medicare beneficiaries. Although we cannot predict the full effects on our business of this legislation, it is possible that the new benefit, which is being managed by private health insurers, pharmacy benefit managers, and other managed care organizations, will result in decreased reimbursement for prescription drugs, which may further exacerbate industry-wide pressure to reduce the prices charged for prescription drugs. This could harm our ability to generate revenues. In addition, managed care organizations, HMOs, preferred provider organizations, institutions and other government agencies continue to seek price discounts. In addition, certain states have proposed and certain other states have adopted various programs to control prices for their seniors’ and low-income drug programs, including price or patient reimbursement constraints, restrictions on access to certain products, importation from other countries, such as Canada, and bulk purchasing of drugs. We encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most other countries. In the European Union (EU) and some other international markets, the government provides health care at low direct cost to consumers and regulates pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system. This price regulation leads to inconsistent prices and some third-party trade in our products from markets with lower prices. Such trade-exploiting price differences between countries could undermine our sales in markets with higher prices. The pharmaceutical industry is subject to anti-kickback and false claims laws in the United States. In addition to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) restrictions on marketing of pharmaceutical products, several other types of state and federal laws have been applied to restrict some marketing practices in the pharmaceutical industry in recent years. These laws include anti-kickback statutes and false claims statutes. 9 Table of Contents The federal healthcare program anti-kickback statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting, or receiving remuneration to induce or in return for, purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any healthcare item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid or other federally financed healthcare programs. This statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on one-hand, and prescribers, purchasers and formulary managers on the other. Although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting some common activities from prosecution, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that involve remuneration intended to induce prescribing, purchases or recommendations may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor. Our practices may not in all cases meet all of the criteria for safe harbor protection from anti-kickback liability. Federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. Recently, several pharmaceutical and other healthcare companies have been prosecuted under these laws for allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product. Additionally, another pharmaceutical company settled charges under the federal False Claims Act relating to off-label promotion. The majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payer. Sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a manufacturer’s products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines, and imprisonment. In January 2006, Elan received a subpoena from the U.S. Department of Justice and the Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Inspector General, asking for documents and materials primarily related to our marketing practices for Zonegran. In April 2004, we completed the sale of our interests in Zonegran in North America and Europe to Eisai Co. Ltd. (Eisai). We are cooperating with the government in its investigation. The resolution of this matter could require Elan to pay substantial fines and to take other actions that could have a material adverse effect on Elan. In April 2006, Eisai delivered to Elan a notice making a contractual claim for indemnification in connection with a similar subpoena received by Eisai. Because of the breadth of such federal and state laws and the narrowness of the safe harbors, it is possible that more of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws. Such a challenge could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our operations. We are subject to extensive government regulation, which may adversely affect our ability to bring new products to market and may adversely affect our ability to manufacture and market our existing products. The pharmaceutical industry is subject to significant regulation by state, local, national and international governmental regulatory authorities. In the United States, the FDA regulates the design, development, preclinical and clinical testing, manufacturing, labeling, storing, distribution, import, export, record keeping, reporting, marketing and promotion of our pharmaceutical products, which include drugs, biologics and medical devices. Failure to comply with regulatory requirements at any stage during the regulatory process could result in, among other things, delays in the approval of applications or supplements to approved applications, refusal of a regulatory authority to review pending market approval applications or supplements to approved applications, warning letters, fines, import or export restrictions, product recalls or seizures, injunctions, total or partial suspension of production, civil penalties, withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications or licenses, recommendations by the FDA or other regulatory authorities against governmental contracts, and criminal prosecutions. We must obtain and maintain approval for our products from regulatory authorities before such products may be sold in a particular jurisdiction. The submission of an application to a regulatory authority with respect to a product does not guarantee that approval to market the product will be granted. Each authority generally imposes its own requirements and may delay or refuse to grant approval, even though a product has been approved in another country. In our principal markets, including the United States, the approval process for a new product is complex, lengthy, expensive and subject to unanticipated delays. We cannot be sure when or whether approvals from regulatory authorities will be received or that the terms of any approval will not impose significant limitations that 10 Table of Contents could negatively impact the potential profitability of the approved product. Even after a product is approved, it may be subject to regulatory action based on newly discovered facts about the safety and efficacy of the product, on any activities that regulatory authorities consider to be improper or as a result of changes in regulatory policy. Regulatory action may have a material adverse effect on the marketing of a product, require changes in the product’s labeling or even lead to the withdrawal of the regulatory marketing approval of the product. All facilities and manufacturing techniques used for the manufacture of products and devices for clinical use or for sale in the United States must be operated in conformity with cGMPs, the FDA’s regulations governing the production of pharmaceutical products. There are comparable regulations in other countries. Any finding by the FDA or other regulatory authority that we are not in substantial compliance with cGMP regulations or that we or our employees have engaged in activities in violation of these regulations could interfere with the continued manufacture and distribution of the affected products, up to the entire output of such products, and, in some cases, might also require the recall of previously distributed products. Any such finding by the FDA or other regulatory agency could also affect our ability to obtain new approvals until such issues are resolved. The FDA and other regulatory authorities conduct scheduled periodic regulatory inspections of our facilities to ensure compliance with cGMP regulations. Any determination by the FDA or other regulatory authority that we, or one of our suppliers, are not in substantial compliance with these regulations or are otherwise engaged in improper or illegal activities could result in substantial fines and other penalties and could cut off our supply of products. Our business exposes us to risks of environmental liabilities. We use hazardous materials, chemicals and toxic compounds that could expose people or property to accidental contamination, events of non-compliance with environmental laws, regulatory enforcement and claims related to personal injury and property damage. If an accident occurred or if we were to discover contamination caused by prior operations, then we could be liable for cleanup, damages or fines, which could have an adverse effect on us. The environmental laws of many jurisdictions impose actual and potential obligations on us to remediate contaminated sites. These obligations may relate to sites that we currently own or lease, sites that we formerly owned or operated, or sites where waste from our operations was disposed. These environmental remediation obligations could significantly impact our operating results. Stricter environmental, safety and health laws and enforcement policies could result in substantial costs and liabilities to us, and could subject our handling, manufacture, use, reuse or disposal of substances or pollutants to more rigorous scrutiny than is currently the case. Consequently, compliance with these laws could result in significant capital expenditures, as well as other costs and liabilities, which could materially adversely affect us. If we fail to comply with our reporting and payment obligations under the Medicaid rebate program or other governmental pricing programs, then we could be subject to material reimbursements, penalties, sanctions and fines. As a condition of reimbursement under Medicaid, we participate in the U.S. federal Medicaid rebate program, as well as several state rebate programs. Under the federal and state Medicaid rebate programs, we pay a rebate to each state for our products that are reimbursed by those programs. The amount of the rebate for each unit of product is set by law, based on reported pricing data. The rebate amount may also include a penalty if our prices increase faster than the rate of inflation. As a manufacturer of single-source, innovator and non-innovator multiple-source products, rebate calculations vary among products and programs. The calculations are complex and, in some respects, subject to interpretation by governmental or regulatory agencies, the courts and us. The Medicaid rebate amount is computed each quarter based on our pricing data submission to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The terms of our participation in the program impose an obligation to correct the prices reported in previous quarters, as may be necessary. Any such corrections could result in an overage or shortfall in our rebate liability for past quarters (up to 12 past quarters), depending on the direction of the correction. Governmental agencies may also make changes in program interpretations, requirements or conditions of participation, some of which may have implications for amounts previously estimated or paid. 11 Table of Contents U.S. Federal law requires that any company that participates in the federal Medicaid rebate program extend comparable discounts to qualified purchasers under the Public Health Services pharmaceutical pricing program. This pricing program extends discounts comparable to the Medicaid net price to a variety of community health clinics and other entities that receive health services grants from the Public Health Service, as well as outpatient utilization at hospitals that serve a disproportionate share of poor patients. Additionally, each calendar quarter, we calculate and report an Average Sales Price (ASP) for all products covered by Medicare Part B (primarily injectable or infused products). We submit ASP information for each such product within 30 days of the end of each calendar quarter. This information is then used to set reimbursement levels to reimburse Part B providers for the drugs and biologicals dispensed to Medicare Part B participants. Furthermore, pursuant to the Veterans Health Care Act, a Non-Federal Average Manufacturer Price is calculated each quarter and a Federal Ceiling Price is calculated each year for every Covered Drug marketed by us. These prices are used to set pricing for purchases by the military arm of the government. These price reporting obligations are complicated and often involve decisions regarding issues for which there is no clear-cut guidance from the government. Failure to submit correct pricing data can subject us to material civil, administrative and criminal penalties. We are subject to continuing potential product liability risks, which could cost us material amounts of money. Risks relating to product liability claims are inherent in the development, manufacturing and marketing of our products. Any person who is injured while using one of our products, or products that we are responsible for, may have a product liability claim against us. Since we distribute and sell our products to a wide number of end users, the risk of such claims could be material. Persons who participate in clinical trials involving our products may also bring product liability claims. Excluding any self-insured arrangements, we currently do not maintain product liability insurance for the first $25.0 million of aggregate claims, but do maintain coverage for the next $175.0 million with our insurers. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover fully all potential claims, nor can we guarantee the solvency of any of our insurers. If our claims experience results in higher rates, or if product liability insurance otherwise becomes costlier because of general economic, market or industry conditions, then we may not be able to maintain product liability coverage on acceptable terms. If sales of our products increase materially, or if we add significant products to our portfolio, then we will require increased coverage and may not be able to secure such coverage at reasonable rates or terms. We and some of our officers and directors have been named as defendants in putative class actions; an adverse outcome in the class actions could result in a substantial judgment against us. We and some of our officers and directors have been named as defendants in putative class actions filed in 2005. The class action complaints allege claims under the U.S. federal securities laws and state laws. The complaints allege that we caused the release of materially false or misleading information regarding Tysabri. The complaints seek damages and other relief that the courts may deem just and proper. We believe that the claims in the lawsuits are without merit and intend to defend against them vigorously. An adverse result in the lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on us. Our stock price is volatile, which could result in substantial losses for investors purchasing shares. The market prices for our shares and for securities of other companies engaged primarily in biotechnology and pharmaceutical development, manufacture and distribution are highly volatile. The market price of our shares likely will continue to fluctuate due to a variety of factors, including: • Material public announcements by us; 12 Table of Contents • Developments regarding Tysabri; • Results of clinical trials with respect to our products under development (in particular AAB-001) and those of our competitors; • The timing of new product launches by others and us; • Events related to our marketed products and those of our competitors; • Regulatory issues affecting us; • Availability and level of third-party reimbursement; • Developments relating to patents and other intellectual property rights; • Political developments and proposed legislation affecting the pharmaceutical industry; • Economic and other external factors; • Hedge or arbitrage activities by holders of our securities; • Period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results or results that do not meet or exceed market expectations; and • Market trends relating to or affecting stock prices across our industry, whether or not related to results or news regarding our competitors or us. Certain provisions of agreements to which we are a party may discourage or prevent a third party from acquiring us and could prevent shareholders from receiving a premium for their shares. We are a party to agreements that may discourage a takeover attempt that might be viewed as beneficial to shareholders who wish to receive a premium for their shares from a potential bidder. For example: • Our collaboration agreement with Biogen Idec provides Biogen Idec with an option to buy the rights to Tysabri in the event that we undergo a change of control, which may limit our attractiveness to potential acquirers; • Until June 20, 2010, Biogen Idec and its affiliates are, subject to limited exceptions, restricted from, among other things, seeking to acquire or acquiring control of us; • Under the terms of indentures governing much of our debt, any acquirer would be required to make an offer to repurchase the debt for cash in connection with some change of control events; and • If we or Wyeth undergo a change of control, our collaboration agreement with Wyeth permits an acquirer to assume the role of the acquired party in most circumstances. Our collaboration agreement with Wyeth restricts Wyeth and its subsidiaries from seeking to acquire us in some circumstances. 