Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investors in our company should consider the following matters, in addition to the other information we have provided in this report and the documents we incorporate by reference. We derive most of our revenue from companies in the offshore oil and gas industry, a historically cyclical industry with levels of activity that are significantly affected by the levels and volatility of oil and gas prices. We derive most of our revenue from customers in the offshore oil and gas exploration, development and production industry. The offshore oil and gas industry is a historically cyclical industry characterized by significant changes in the levels of exploration and development activities. Oil and gas prices, and market expectations of potential changes in those prices, significantly affect the levels of those activities. Worldwide political, economic and military events have contributed to oil and gas price volatility and are likely to continue to do so in the future. Any prolonged reduction in the overall level of offshore oil and gas exploration and development activities, whether resulting from changes in oil and gas prices or otherwise, could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in our segments within our Oil and Gas business. Some factors that have affected and are likely to continue affecting oil and gas prices and the level of demand for our services and products include the following: • worldwide demand for oil and gas; • general economic and business conditions and industry trends; • delays in deliveries of deepwater drilling rigs; • the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC, to set and maintain production levels; • the level of production by non-OPEC countries; • the ability of oil and gas companies to generate funds for capital expenditures; • domestic and foreign tax policy; • laws and governmental regulations that restrict exploration and development of oil and gas in various offshore jurisdictions; • rapid technological changes; • the political environment of oil-producing regions; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; and • overall economic conditions. 10 Table of Contents Our operations could be adversely impacted by the effects of new regulations adopted by the U.S. government in response to the Macondo well incident. On April 22, 2010, the drilling rig Deepwater Horizon, which was engaged in deepwater drilling operations in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, sank after an explosion and fire. The incident resulted in a significant and uncontrolled oil spill off the coast of Louisiana. During 2010, the U.S. government established new regulations relating to the design of wells and testing of the integrity of wellbores, the use of drilling fluids, the functionality and testing of well control equipment, including blowout preventers, and other safety and environmental regulations. In addition, the U.S. government is requiring that operators demonstrate their compliance with the new regulations before commencing deepwater drilling operations. Compliance issues associated with the new regulations are significantly impacting deepwater drilling in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. We cannot predict when operators in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico will be issued drilling permits under the new regulations. At this time, we cannot predict the full impact the Macondo well incident and the new regulations may have on the regulation of offshore oil and gas exploration and development activity, the cost or availability of insurance coverage to cover the risks of such operations, or what actions may be taken by our customers or other industry participants in response to the incident. Changes in laws or regulations regarding offshore oil and gas exploration and development activities, the cost or availability of insurance and decisions by customers or other industry participants could reduce demand for our services, which would have a negative impact on our operations. Our international operations involve additional risks not associated with domestic operations. A significant portion of our revenue is attributable to operations in foreign countries. These activities accounted for approximately 51% of our consolidated revenue in 2010. Risks associated with our operations in foreign areas include risks of: • regional and global economic downturns; • war and civil disturbances or other risks that may limit or disrupt markets; • expropriation, confiscation or nationalization of assets; • renegotiation or nullification of existing contracts; • foreign exchange restrictions; • foreign currency fluctuations; • foreign taxation, including the application and interpretation of tax laws; • the inability to repatriate earnings or capital; • changing political conditions; • changing foreign and domestic monetary policies; and • social, political, military and economic situations in foreign areas where we do business and the possibilities of civil distrubances, war, other armed conflict or terrorist attacks. Additionally, in some jurisdictions we are subject to foreign governmental regulations favoring or requiring the awarding of contracts to local contractors or requiring foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. These regulations may adversely affect our ability to compete. Our exposure to the risks we described above varies from country to country. In recent periods, political instability and civil unrest in West Africa, particularly Nigeria, has been our greatest concern. There is a risk that a continuation or worsening of these conditions could materially and adversely impact our future business, operations, financial condition and results of operations. Of our total consolidated revenue for 2010, we generated approximately 14% from our operations in West Africa. Our backlog is subject to unexpected adjustments and cancellations and is, therefore, an uncertain indicator of our future revenues and earnings. There can be no assurance that the revenues included in our backlog will be realized or, if realized, will result in profits. Because of project cancellations or potential changes in the scope or schedule of our customers’ projects, we cannot predict with certainty when or if backlog will be realized. Material delays, suspensions, cancellations or payment defaults could materially affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Reductions in our backlog due to cancellation by a customer or for other reasons would adversely affect, potentially to a material extent, the revenues and earnings we actually receive from contracts included in our backlog. Many of our ROV contracts have 30-day notice termination clauses. Some of the contracts in our backlog provide for cancellation fees in the event customers cancel projects. These cancellation fees usually provide for reimbursement of our out-of-pocket costs, revenues for work performed prior to cancellation and a varying percentage of the profits we would have realized had the contract been completed. We typically have no contractual right upon cancellation to the total contract revenues as reflected in our backlog. If we experience significant project terminations, suspensions or scope adjustments to contracts reflected in our backlog, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely impacted. 11 Table of Contents A global financial crisis could impact our business and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict. A recurrence of the credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial system that occurred in 2008 and 2009 could have an impact on our business and our financial condition. In particular, the cost of capital increased substantially while the availability of funds from the capital markets diminished significantly. Although the capital markets have recovered, in a recurrence, our ability to access the capital markets in the future could be restricted or be available only on terms we do not consider favorable. Limited access to the capital markets could adversely impact our ability to take advantage of business opportunities or react to changing economic and business conditions and could adversely impact our ability to continue our growth strategy. Ultimately we could be required to reduce our future capital expenditures substantially. Such a reduction could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. A recurrence of such a global financial crisis could have further impacts on our business that we currently cannot predict or anticipate. A global financial crisis or economic recession could have an impact on our suppliers and our customers, causing them to fail to meet their obligations to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, income from operations and cash flows. If one or more of the lenders under our revolving credit facility were to become unable or unwilling to perform their obligations under that facility, our borrowing capacity could be reduced. Our inability to borrow under our revolving credit facility could limit our ability to fund our future operations and growth. Employee, agent or partner misconduct or our overall failure to comply with laws or regulations could weaken our ability to win contracts, which could result in reduced revenues and profits. Misconduct, fraud, non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations, or other improper activities by one or more of our employees, agents or partners could have a significant negative impact on our business and reputation. Such misconduct could include the failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), which prohibits companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials, as well as the failure to comply with government procurement regulations, regulations on lobbying or similar activities, regulations pertaining to the internal controls over financial reporting and various other applicable laws or regulations. The precautions we take to prevent and detect misconduct, fraud or non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations may not be effective, and we could face unknown risks or losses. Our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations or acts of misconduct could subject us to fines, penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business strategy contemplates future acquisitions. Acquisitions of other businesses or assets present various risks and uncertainties. We may pursue growth through the acquisition of businesses or assets that will enable us to broaden our product and service offerings and expand into new markets. We may be unable to implement this element of our growth strategy if we cannot identify suitable businesses or assets, reach agreement on potential strategic acquisitions on acceptable terms or for other reasons. Moreover, acquisitions involve various risks, including: • difficulties relating to the assimilation of personnel, services and systems of an acquired business and the assimilation of marketing and other operational capabilities; • challenges resulting from unanticipated changes in customer relationships subsequent to acquisition; • additional financial and accounting challenges and complexities in areas such as tax planning, treasury management, financial reporting and internal controls; • assumption of liabilities of an acquired business, including liabilities that were unknown at the time the acquisition transaction was negotiated; • possible liabilities under the FCPA; • diversion of management’s attention from day-to-day operations; • failure to realize anticipated benefits, such as cost savings and revenue enhancements; • potentially substantial transaction costs associated with acquisitions; and • potential impairment resulting from the overpayment for an acquisition. Future acquisitions may require us to obtain additional equity or debt financing, which may not be available on attractive terms. Moreover, to the extent an acquisition transaction financed by non-equity consideration results in goodwill, it will reduce our tangible net worth, which might have an adverse effect on credit availability. Additionally, an acquisition may bring us into businesses we have not previously conducted and expose us to additional business risks that are different from those we have previously experienced. Our business strategy also includes development and commercialization of new technologies to support our growth. The development and commercialization of new technologies requires capital investment and involves various risks and uncertainties. Our future growth will depend on our ability to continue to innovate by developing and commercializing new product and service offerings. Investments in new technologies involve varying degrees of uncertainties and risk. Commercial success depends on many factors, including the levels of innovation, the development costs and the availability of capital resources to fund those costs, the levels of competition from others developing similar or other competing technologies, our ability to obtain or maintain government permits or certifications, the effectiveness of production, distribution and marketing efforts, and the costs to customers to deploy and provide support for the new technologies. We may not achieve significant revenues from new product and service investments for a number of years, if at all. Moreover, new products and services may not be profitable, and, even if they are profitable, our operating margins from new products and services may not be as high as the margins we have experienced historically. 12 Table of Contents The loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel, or our failure to attract, assimilate and retain trained personnel in the future, could disrupt our operations and result in loss of revenues. Our success depends on the continued active participation of our executive officers and key operating personnel. The unexpected loss of the services of any one of these persons could adversely affect our operations. Our operations require the services of employees having the technical training and experience necessary to obtain the proper operational results. As a result, if we should suffer any material loss of personnel to competitors or be unable to employ additional or replacement personnel with the requisite level of training and experience to adequately operate our equipment, our operations could be adversely affected. While we believe our wage rates are competitive and our relationships with our employees are satisfactory, a significant increase in the wages paid by other employers could result in a reduction in our workforce, increases in wage rates, or both. If either of these events occurred for a significant period of time, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Our businesses operate in highly competitive industry segments. Some of our competitors or potential competitors have greater financial or other resources than we have. Our operations may be adversely affected if our current competitors or new market entrants introduce new products or services with better features, performance, prices or other characteristics than those of our products and services. This factor is significant to our segments’ operations, particularly in the segments within our Oil and Gas business, where capital investment is critical to our ability to compete. Our offshore oilfield operations involve a variety of operating hazards and risks that could cause losses. Our operations are subject to the hazards inherent in the offshore oilfield business. These include blowouts, explosions, fires, collisions, capsizings and severe weather conditions. These hazards could result in personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment, pollution or environmental damage and suspension of operations. We may incur substantial liabilities or losses as a result of these hazards. While we maintain insurance protection against some of these risks, and seek to obtain indemnity agreements from our customers requiring the customers to hold us harmless from some of these risks, our insurance and contractual indemnity protection may not be sufficient or effective to protect us under all circumstances or against all risks. The occurrence of a significant event not fully insured or indemnified against or the failure of a customer to meet its indemnification obligations to us could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Laws and governmental regulations may add to our costs or adversely affect our operations. Our business is affected by changes in public policy and by federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the offshore oil and gas industry. Offshore oil and gas exploration and production operations are affected by tax, environmental, safety and other laws, by changes in those laws, application or interpretation of existing laws, and changes in related administrative regulations. It is also possible that these laws and regulations may in the future add significantly to our operating costs or those of our customers or otherwise directly or indirectly affect our operations. Environmental laws and regulations can increase our costs, and our failure to comply with those laws and regulations can expose us to significant liabilities. Risks of substantial costs and liabilities related to environmental compliance issues are inherent in our operations. Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the generation, storage, handling, emission, transportation and discharge of materials into the environment. Permits are required for the operation of various facilities, and those permits are subject to revocation, modification and renewal. Governmental authorities have the power to enforce compliance with their regulations, and violations are subject to fines, injunctions or both. In some cases, those governmental requirements can impose liability for the entire cost of cleanup on any responsible party without regard to negligence or fault and impose liability on us for the conduct of or conditions others have caused, or for our acts that complied with all applicable requirements when we performed them. It is possible that other developments, such as stricter environmental laws and regulations, and claims for damages to property or persons resulting from our operations, would result in substantial costs and liabilities. Our insurance policies and the contractual indemnity protection we seek to obtain from our customers may not be sufficient or effective to protect us under all circumstances or against all risks involving compliance with environmental laws and regulations. 13 Table of Contents Our internal controls may not be sufficient to achieve all stated goals and objectives. Our internal controls and procedures were developed through a process in which our management applied its judgment in assessing the costs and benefits of such controls and procedures, which, by their nature, can provide only reasonable assurance regarding the control objectives. The design of any system of internal controls and procedures is based, in part, on various assumptions about the likelihood of future events. We cannot assure you that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions, regardless of how remote. The use of estimates could result in future adjustments to our assets, liabilities and results of operations. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires that our management make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expense during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. We may issue preferred stock whose terms could adversely affect the voting power or value of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our shareholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such preferences, powers and relative, participating, optional and other rights, including preferences over our common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our board of directors may determine. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could adversely impact the voting power or value of our common stock. For example, we might grant holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of our directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we might assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of the common stock. Provisions in our corporate documents and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control of our company, even if that change would be beneficial to our shareholders. The existence of some provisions in our corporate documents and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control of our company, even if that change would be beneficial to our shareholders. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may make acquiring control of our company difficult, including: • provisions relating to the classification, nomination and removal of our directors; • provisions regulating the ability of our shareholders to bring matters for action at annual meetings of our shareholders; • provisions requiring the approval of the holders of at least 80% of our voting stock for a broad range of business combination transactions with related persons; and • the authorization given to our board of directors to issue and set the terms of preferred stock. In addition, we have adopted a shareholder rights plan that would cause extreme dilution to any person or group who attempts to acquire a significant interest in Oceaneering without advance approval of our board of directors. Also, the Delaware General Corporation Law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 