ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. While we believe we have identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect our business, performance or financial condition in the future. We are exposed to a number of risks associated with food production, any of which could result in a material adverse effect on us. We face all of the risks inherent in the production and distribution of frozen food products, including contamination, adulteration, spoilage, and the associated risks of product liability litigation, which may occur even with an isolated event. Although our modern production facilities have obtained governmental approvals that we believe are required for their operations, and we employ what we believe are the necessary processes and equipment in order to insure food safety, there can be no assurance that our procedures will be adequate to prevent the occurrence of such events. Claims alleging problems with our products, whether or not successful, would likely be expensive to defend, distract management’s attention and could potentially expose us to significant liabilities. Although we maintain insurance to protect ourselves against such liabilities, these policies are subject to exclusions and limitations, and there can be no assurance that such ins urance would be sufficient to satisfy such liabilities. In any event, regardless of the merit or ultimate success of any claims, such accusations could significantly harm our reputation, thereby leading to a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. As a food company, we are required to comply with many federal, state and local laws and regulations, and the failure to comply with applicable laws could have a material adverse impact on our reputation and results of operations. 3 Our facilities and products are subject to many laws and regulations administered by the United States Department of Agriculture, the Federal Food and Drug Administration, and other federal, state, local, and foreign governmental agencies relating to the processing, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising, labeling, quality, and safety of food products. Our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to administrative penalties and injunctive relief, civil remedies, including fines, injunctions and recalls of our products, and negative publicity. We do not enter into long term contracts with our customers, and the loss of one or more significant customers could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. A large portion of our revenue has traditionally come from the supply of our products to travel-related customers. In fiscal year 2002 and 2003, our sales declined tremendously as the travel-related industries experienced a major set back in the wake of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. Since fiscal 2004, we have made a concerted effort to diversify our sales into other sales channels. Growth in those areas continues to reduce our dependency on the travel industry. However, the success in implementing this diversification strategy might not limit or eliminate the risk of concentration of sales to certain number of customers. In fiscal 2007 and 2006, one Military distributor and one Retail customer became our two largest customers. Generally, we do not enter into long term supply contracts with our customers and, as a result, these customers may generally discontinue purchasing our products at any time. For example, we cannot guarantee that the Army will contin ue to purchase items from us. Moreover, because we sell to the government indirectly through a number of prime contractors, if governmental investigations or audits uncover improper or illegal activities by a prime contractor to whom we sell our products, or if the Military sales to a prime contractor are discontinued or decreased, then our revenue and results of operations may be negatively impacted. We are aware that one prime contractor through which we sell our products is the subject of a governmental investigation. To date, we have not been adversely impacted as a result of the investigation, however, this or other similar investigations or audits may have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations in the future. Fluctuation in the availability and price of raw materials may increase our operating costs, resulting in an adverse impact on our margins. We purchase certain raw materials that are subject to availability and price fluctuations caused by factors beyond our control, including seasonality, market demand, inflation, weather and environmental conditions, currency fluctuations and other factors. While the movements of raw material costs and the fluctuation of availability are uncertain in fiscal 2009, we continue to develop strategic purchasing programs to purchase our raw materials from a number of different suppliers internationally with annual arrangements. However, the implementation of these strategies might not effectively limit or eliminate the exposure to a decline in operating results due to changes in raw material prices and availability. Therefore, we cannot assure you that future costs and availability fluctuations in raw material will not have a negative impact on our margins, and we may be unable to raise the prices of our products to offset these increased costs in the short-term or at all. As a result, our business, financial position or results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Changes in governmental and agricultural regulations and programs may also impact our ability to source products internationally. The markets in which we compete are highly competitive. The food industry is highly competitive. While we currently face little direct competition in the U.S. from very large competitors in the premium, fully cooked, frozen food market, these potential competitors could choose to enter our markets. Such companies are larger and have access to significantly greater financial, managerial, sales, technical and other resources than us. If large food companies elect to enter the premium markets in which we compete, they could outspend us and decrease our market share and potentially drive down prevailing prices in these markets, which would have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Within Europe we face direct sous-vide competition from a number of manufacturers. Many of these are similar or larger in size and compete directly in the same markets of Food Service, On Board Services and Retail channels in Europe. The market for our common stock is characterized by relatively low trading volume, and high trading volume could result in a significant decline in our stock price. The market for our common stock is characterized by low and somewhat sporadic trading volume, which has extreme price volatility. A large volume of stock being sold into the market at any one time or over a short period of time, or the perception that such events will occur, could cause our stock price to rapidly decline. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly for reasons beyond our control and potentially unrelated to our performance. The market price and marketability of our common stock may from time to time be significantly affected by numerous factors, including many over which we have no control and that may not be directly related to us. These factors include the following: 4 · price and volume fluctuations in the stock market from time to time, which are often unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies; · significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of shares of food companies, which is not necessarily related to the operating performance of these companies; · changes in regulatory policies; · changes in our earnings or variations in our operating results; · any shortfall in our revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by securities analysts; · departure of our key personnel; · operating performance of companies comparable to us; · general economic trends and other external factors; · loss of one or more of our significant customers; and · loss of a major funding source. Fluctuations in the trading prices of our shares may adversely affect the liquidity of the trading market for the shares and, if we seek to raise capital through future equity financings, our ability to raise such equity capital. Our future financial performance is subject to a number of additional uncertainties, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to generate cash to meet our expenses and debt service obligations and to otherwise reduce our debt as anticipated will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, legislative, regulatory and other factors, including potential changes in consumer preferences, the success of product and marketing innovation and pressure from competitors. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Any factor that negatively affects our results of operations, including our cash flow, may also negatively affect our ability to pay the principal and interest on our outstanding debt. If we are unable to reduce our debt as anticipated, our interest expense could be materially higher than anticipated and our financial performance could be adversely affected. If we do not have enough cash to pay our debt service obligations, we may be required to amend our credit facility or indentures, refinance all or part of our existing de bt, sell assets, incur additional indebtedness or raise equity. We cannot assure you that we will be able, at any given time, to take any of these actions on terms acceptable to us or at all. Our foreign operations subject us to a number of risks. In fiscal year 2008, 34.6% of our sales were generated in foreign countries. Our foreign operations are subject to the risks described in this section, as well as risks related to fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar as compared to the local currencies, economic and political uncertainties in such countries. Our subsidiaries conduct their business in local currency and, for purposes of financial reporting, their results are translated into U.S. dollars based on average exchange rates prevailing during a reporting period. During times of a strengthening U.S. dollar, our reported revenues and operating income will be reduced because the local currency will be translated into fewer U.S. dollars. As a result, the foreign exchange fluctuations could adversely affect our profitability. We depend on common carriers to deliver our products, and the disruption of such delivery channels could have an adverse impact on our ability to deliver our products to market. Logistics and other transportation-related costs have a significant impact on our earnings and results of operations. We use multiple forms of transportation to bring our products to market. These include trucks, planes, rail cars, and ships. Disruption to the timely supply of these services or increases in the cost of these services for any reason, including availability or cost of fuel, regulations affecting the industry, or labor shortages in the transportation industry, could have an adverse effect on our ability to serve our customers, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. Increases in interest rates may have an adverse impact on our profitability. Increases in interest rates can make it more difficult and expensive to obtain the funds needed to operate our businesses. As of June 28, 2008 we had no outstanding short-term borrowings on our $7,500,000 and $6,000,000 lines of credit which accrue interest at a variable rate based on prevailing interest rates (4.71% as of June 28, 2008). We have not used derivative financial instruments to hedge our interest rate exposure. Increases in interest rates would increase our interest expense and adversely affect our results of operations. Therefore, we cannot assure that future interest rate increases and borrowings will not have a negative impact on our business, financial position or operating results. Members of the Vilgrain family and their affiliates control a majority of our common stock and are able to exert significant control over our future direction. Members of the Vilgrain family and their affiliates together control approximately 56.2% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, if they act together, are able to exert significant influence, as a practical matter, on all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. Additionally, three 5 members of the Vilgrain family serve on our board of directors, including Stanislas Vilgrain, who also serves as our Chief Executive Officer and President and Mr. Jean-Louis Vilgrain who serves as our Chairman of the Board. As a result, this concentration of ownership and representation on our board of directors and management may delay, prevent or deter a change in control, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of us or our assets and might reduce the market price of our common stock. Force majeure events, such as terrorist attacks, other acts of violence or war, political instability and health epidemics may adversely affect us. Terrorist attacks, war, and political instability, along with health epidemics, may disrupt our ability to generate revenues. These events may negatively affect our ability to maintain sales revenue and to develop new business relationships. Moreover, because a significant and growing part of our revenues is derived from sales to customers outside of the United States, terrorist attacks, war and international political instability anywhere may decrease international demand for our products and inhibit customer development opportunities abroad, disrupt our supply chain, or impair our ability to deliver our products, which could materially adversely affect our net revenues or results of operations. Any of these events may also disrupt global financial markets and precipitate a decline in the price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 