Item 1A. Risk Factors page 9 Item 2. Properties page 12 Item 3. Legal Proceedings page 12 Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders page 12 PART II Item 5. Market for The Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities page 13 Item 6. Selected Financial Data page 14 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations page 14 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk page 23 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data page 23 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure page 23 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures page 23 Item 9B. Other Information page 23 PART III Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant page 24 Item 11. Executive Compensation page 24 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters page 24 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions page 24 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services page 24 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules page 25 SIGNATURES EX-14.1: Code of Ethics page 48 EX-21.1: Subsidiaries of the Registrant page 50 EX-23.1: Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm page 51 EX-23.2: Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm page 52 EX-31.1: Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 page 53 EX-31.2: Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 page 54 EX-32.1: Certification of Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 906 of The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 page 55 2 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Unless the context otherwise requires, when used in this report, the terms “Cuisine Solutions,” “the Company,” “we” and “us” refer to Cuisine Solutions, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, “Cuisine Solutions France” refers to the Company’s wholly-owned subsidiary Cuisine Solutions France, S.A., and “Cuisine Solutions Chile” refers to Cuisine Solutions Chile, S.A., a corporation in which the Company owns a minority interest. GENERAL Cuisine Solutions produces and markets prepared foods to the Foodservice Industry utilizing sales channels such as airlines, passenger trains, harbor cruise lines, hotel banquets, retail, retail in-store delis and frozen food, military and national restaurant chains. Cuisine Solutions develops and sells upscale, fully cooked frozen food and has been providing high quality entrees to the Foodservice market for over fifteen years. We believe that the Company is recognized in the market place as having the highest quality frozen food product line in the world. Our motto is: exceptional food for exceptional events with ultimate convenience at a good value. Cuisine Solutions’ unique use of sous-vide processing allows us to produce high quality entrees and sauces for use in first class and business class meal service, hotel banquets, retail frozen foods and prepared products for retail in-store delis, military and national restaurant chains. Cuisine Solutions began pursuing its current strategy in 1988 when management recognized the growing trend and future demand for high quality prepared foods at value prices. In addition to quality, management also saw the growing need for prepared foods that reduced the use of chemical preservatives to enhance flavor and shelf life. The special cooking process involved in the preparation of our products, known as sous-vide, uses chef developed recipes and only the finest quality ingredients. The cooking process involves slowly cooking the products for a longer period of time than most food companies and at lower cooking temperatures. This special process is a culmination of culinary art and food science in that it requires precise controls of the cooking process, and each particular control is applied to each individual recipe. This process involved a decade of research and development to produce the wide range of high quality products currently offered by Cuisine Solutions. This entire process is managed through computerized cooking equipment under the supervision of culinary professionals. Today’s consumer trends are moving heavily towards fast food and convenience. As a result, culinary quality and nutrition have suffered. Other trends in the market places include an increased demand for high quality, unique ethnic recipes and diet recipes such as low carbohydrate products. The Cuisine Solutions center of the plate proteins, sauces, pasta, and rice products enable foodservice providers requiring exceptional quality to purchase fully cooked, high quality products from us as an alternative to preparing products from scratch. Our products also enable foodservice providers to provide a wide range of products and eliminate the need for raw materials and logistics, especially for last minute events. Our products help reduce the labor required to prepare food products, increase food safety by reducing manual product handling, reduce yield losses, and provide consistent portion sizes. In addition to the above benefits, Cuisine Solutions’ products do not require additional preservatives normally found in prepared foods due to our unique cooking process. Our management believes that this makes Cuisine Solutions’ products especially attractive to foodservice establishments, national restaurant chains, retailers of frozen and in-store deli prepared foods, and health care facilities, as well as large upscale event caterers. Supported by what we believe to be the best and most experienced technical team in this cooking technology and enhanced by the collaboration of some of the best culinary chefs in the industry, Cuisine Solutions provides unique value to the market place with its quality consistent products. We offer the struggling, overworked, understaffed foodservice operators expanded menu lines, labor savings, flexibility, serving time reduction, reduced yield losses and increased food safety. The Company has positioned itself as a high quality provider of prepared foods, with unique product capabilities at competitive market prices with three operating production facilities; two in Europe and one in the U.S. Cuisine Solutions U.S.: Cuisine Solutions operated a 48,000 square feet manufacturing facility located in Alexandria, Virginia for fiscal year 2006 and subsequently leased another 18,000 square feet of manufacturing space at the same location, resulting in total U.S. manufacturing space of 66,000 square feet. The facility is U.S. Department of Agriculture (“USDA”) and Hazard Critical Control Point (“HACCP”) certified, and has the ability to produce the complete range of Cuisine Solutions products including a high volume enrobed pasta line. The food is produced primarily for sale and consumption nationwide in the U.S., but it is also exported throughout the world. 3 Cuisine Solutions France: Acquired by Cuisine Solutions in 1999, Cuisine Solutions France is located just west of Paris in Louviers, France. This 15,000 square foot HACCP certified facility produces a full range of traditional French recipes for the European foodservice market as well as the French retail market. The Company owned facility can produce all of our current products and has retail packaging capabilities. In May 2006, the Company purchased a new production facility in Le Pertre, France with approximately 46,000 square feet of manufacturing space. Cuisine Solutions France is the training area for many Cuisine Solutions Operations Managers since the facility has the most collective experience using the sous-vide process, and adheres to strict culinary discipline, a culture that is passed on to all of our facilities. The food is produced primarily for sale and consumption in France and Europe, but it is also exported internationally. Cuisine Solutions Chile: The Company is a minority stockholder in Cuisine Solutions Chile, S.A. which operates a 45,000 square feet production facility in Puerto Montt, Chile. The purpose of the facility is to produce high quality, value priced whitefish, shellfish and salmon products in Chile for the Global Retail and Foodservice markets. In 2004, Cuisine Solutions and Cuisine Solutions Chile entered into an agreement whereby Cuisine Solutions Chile agreed to market certain sous-vide products of Cuisine Solutions and a commercial agreement regarding the purchase of certain raw materials from Cuisine Solutions Chile was signed in fiscal year 2004. The plant began operations in August 2004. Cuisine Solutions currently distributes products through the following sales channels: • On Board Services: Airlines, railroad and cruise lines; • Foodservice: Hotel banquets, convention centers, sport stadiums and other special events such as the Olympics; • Retail: Supermarket in-store deli, premium frozen packaged foods; • Military: Naval carriers, Army field feeding, and military dining halls and clubs; and • National Restaurant Chains: Upscale multi-unit restaurants. On Board Services The On Board Services (“OBS”) channel includes customers that provide transportation and meal services to the general public. With chef-created high quality fully cooked pasteurized products and the flexibility to make changes quickly and easily, we believe that we have become the preferred supplier to the world’s top airlines for their business and first class services. Airlines and On Board Service caterers also recognize the value of Cuisine Solutions’ international presence, which allows them to design high-class menus for the U.S., European, and South American markets. The ability to create high quality meals in these three markets (including through its relationship in Cuisine Solutions Chile) provides Cuisine Solutions a strong competitive edge in the development of standardized quality meals for both U.S. and non-U.S. airlines with flights departing from South America and Europe. The Company is now working with most U.S. carriers and developing commercial relations with large European and South American airlines and caterers. We believe that we are also the supplier of choice for national railroad companies in the U.S. and France. Focused effort and services towards this market has allowed Cuisine Solutions to increase its market share. The OBS channel experienced consistent growth until the negative impact of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks in the U.S. resulted in extremely limited business travel during the subsequent months, which had been a major source of Cuisine Solutions sales revenue via sales to the airlines and the hotel banquet industries. Although, the airline industry continues to experience financial troubles and there are rumors of several potential bankruptcy filings, the number of passengers traveling has been increasing and there are signs of recovery in Europe whereas demands for Cuisine Solutions’ products in this channel is increasing. We believe that Cuisine Solutions’ reputation for high quality products and services along with its international presence has allowed the Company to rebound in this channel as passenger travel has increased. Cuisine Solutions will continue to seek to strengthen its business relationships with the major U.S. airlines and passenger rail lines by providing continued value, service and flexible solutions depending upon the level of demand in the industry. Foodservice The Foodservice sales channel serves products to hotel banquets, hotel restaurants, sports stadiums, large special event caterers, casinos, country clubs, and restaurants. Our products are attractive to foodservice operators, who are often under-staffed and over-worked, as it improves both their revenue capability and their meal costs. Cuisine Solutions’ products and menu services enhance and enlarge food operators’ menu offerings, increase their table rotation through faster delivery of meals, and improve the quality, safety and consistency of their menu offerings, which in turn improve revenue capability for restaurant operators. Cuisine Solutions’ products facilitate the offerings of special menu and promotions programs, which result in higher customer headcount and a higher average check per customer. Our products and technical services also help food operators in reducing their meal cost, labor cost, yield losses, and lower utility and equipment usage. Cuisine Solutions’ products also offer a unique method of controlling portion costs and recipe execution. The use of pre-prepared entrees like Cuisine Solutions’ products can also lead to additional savings in kitchen space, equipment requirements, capital investment and leasehold improvement costs. 4 There are many prepared foodservice manufacturers in the industry, but most of them can be classified as large processors with mass production and generally lower quality. These providers typically operate large, heavily capitalized facilities, providing very little flexibility, variety and responsiveness to the changing demands of the foodservice market. In contrast, smaller manufacturers can provide more flexibility and variety, but they are generally limited in capacity, and relatively few have the ability to capture global expansion opportunities. Cuisine Solutions’ indirect competitors do not utilize sous-vide technology, as it involves significant research and development in addition to specialized equipment and equipment knowledge. In fiscal 2006, Cuisine Solutions achieved continued penetration into key national accounts, banquet centers and casinos. Many new Cuisine Solutions’ items are now on large hotel chains, resorts, casinos, and banquet menus. In fiscal 2006, we continued to focus on national accounts and to improve our distribution methods to ensure that requested products are available throughout the U.S. and Europe. Customers in the Foodservice sales channel place a high value on the labor savings, exceptional quality, consistency and food safety associated with our products. Management believes that the importance of these qualities is even greater in the current economic and political situation challenging today’s business environment. Retail Cuisine Solutions entered the retail sales channel upon completion of the acquisition of its French subsidiary, Cuisine Solutions France, in October 1999. Cuisine Solutions has been penetrating the French and the U.S. retail markets in the packaged, premium branded and private label category. French consumers are particularly demanding in the area of food quality. Cuisine Solutions France had experienced annual sales growth since 1999 in the retail channel until fiscal 2005, when management decided to discontinue certain lower margin private label products. Cuisine Solutions France experienced some growth in retail in fiscal year 2006 as management carefully monitored margins. Cuisine Solutions believes that it offers exceptional quality, consistency, cost reduction opportunities and higher food safety levels, as well as the culinary expertise to help the retailer enhance product selections and seasonal varieties. Additional retail objectives for France in fiscal year 2007 includes exploring opportunities for introducing more Cuisine Solutions branded items to retailers in France. In the U.S. retail channel, Cuisine Solutions has concentrated its marketing efforts in introducing its product line to upscale U.S. retailers who the Company believes could benefit from the exceptional quality, convenience, consistency, cost and safety benefits provided to its Foodservice customers. In fiscal 2006, the Company’s continued efforts translated into growth in the U.S. retail channel as demand increased for high quality, value priced items that are simple to prepare. Retail brand awareness is growing with the increasing number of products on the shelves of retail club, member-only warehouse and high end, premium retailers. Retail objectives for fiscal year 2007 include further penetration into the U.S. in-store delis of targeted retailers as well as continued planned national roll-outs of premium frozen retail products into the U.S. market. Military For many years, Cuisine Solutions has been selling to the U.S. Navy, mainly for supplying aircraft carriers. Since fiscal year 2005, the military channel showed significant growth due to increasing sales to the U.S. Army overseas as the Army has selected Cuisine Solutions’ products for two of its field feeding programs for which sales started in fiscal 2005. There was a significant increase in volume in the first quarter of fiscal year 2006, it is management’s belief that this had to do with purchases at the end of the Government fiscal year. The military often makes additional purchases at the end of their fiscal year when there is money remaining in the budget and less when there is not. Management cannot predict additional end of year purchases for any program in any fiscal year. We believe that there is still growth potential in the field feeding programs from additional Cuisine Solutions items being added to the menus. There are also areas of military sales where we currently have little or no sales penetration, such as the commissary (grocery), base, and club system. We believe that the Cuisine Solutions’ product line is ideal for military to deal with situations that often call for long shelf life, high quality, easy preparation and high levels of food safety. National Restaurant Chains National Restaurant Chain (NRC) sales, our least mature sales channel, which represents most of the sales in what was previously referred to as “New Business” for U.S. prior to fiscal 2005, showed strong growth during the fiscal year. Like the Foodservice channel, restaurant chains are constantly struggling to find experienced labor and to reduce costs. Cuisine Solutions has the ability to duplicate a restaurant’s recipes and provide the chain with the consistency that it needs across its operations. Cuisine Solutions also can provide products to fill-out a restaurant chain’s menu. Our products can provide the specials for their seasonal menu, and they can also solve a chain’s smaller kitchen issues with its fully cooked products. Often, a restaurant chain specializes in a certain type of food but desires to offer variety to its customers to whom the chain’s specialty does not appeal to. Cuisine Solutions, with over 150 products, can provide a wide range of products for these chains to choose from. We believe the consumer trend toward upscale casual restaurant chain dining will continue to increase in fiscal year 2007 and that our products are well-suited to meet the market demand. 5 BACKGROUND Cuisine Solutions, Inc. was incorporated in the State of Delaware in 1974. Our principal executive office is located at 85 South Bragg Street, Suite 600, Alexandria, VA 22312 and our telephone number at that location is (703) 270-2900. The Company commenced operations in 1972 as a wholesale producer of French bread for daily delivery to the Washington, D.C. area. The Company expanded its business into new geographic markets throughout the 1970s. In fiscal year 1979, the Company, then known as Vie de France Corporation, began offering its product through Company-owned retail bakeries where the products could be freshly baked throughout the day. During the 1980s, the Company expanded its frozen dough product line and developed processes to facilitate the baking of these products at the point-of-sale. As of May 1994, the Company owned and operated 31 retail units. The Company sold the Bakery Division and the Restaurant Division to Vie de France Bakery Yamazaki, Inc. in 1991 and 1994, respectively, and changed its name to Cuisine Solutions, Inc. The Company began development of the Culinary Division business in 1987, in conjunction with research previously performed by Nouvelle Carte France, a related French company. As a result of the growth in the application of high quality frozen products in Europe, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized the establishment of the Vie de France Culinary Corporation for the express purpose of the research into and development of high quality frozen products for the U.S. market. This Company was formed in 1987, and was later merged into Vie de France Corporation. In 1989, construction began on a 30,000 square feet plant in Alexandria, Virginia designed to manufacture the Company’s sous-vide product line under the trade name Vie de France Culinary. The Culinary plant began operations in May 1990, and later expanded into a 39,000 square feet building. The Company constructed a manufacturing facility in Norway, and initiated production in August 1994. The primary focus of the Norwegian facility was to supply the Company with all salmon products. During fiscal years 1991 through 1996, the Culinary Division increased its sales. Revenues grew from zero to over $2 million in fiscal year 1991 and by fiscal year 1996 to $16 million. During fiscal year 1997, the Company restructured its sales organization to develop a focused sales and marketing strategy. The Company embarked on strategic marketing campaigns to educate the market place about the advantages of sous-vide processing and to increase awareness of the existence of the Company and its product line. During this first year of the strategic marketing effort and re-organization, fiscal year 1997 sales declined to about $14 million. In fiscal year 1998 the Company continued its reorganization while sales remained steady at $14 million, and in fiscal year 1999, sales in U.S. increased to over $20 million, an increase of approximately 43%. In 1998, the Company entered into a joint venture, Cuisine Solutions do Brasil Ltda, to construct a manufacturing facility in Brasilia, Brazil to service airlines in the Mercusor markets, our European retail customers that have a strong presence in Brazil, and to provide low cost poultry and beef product exports to the European markets. The Brazilian facility established regular operations at the beginning of fiscal year 2002. Towards the end of fiscal year 2002, the Company filed a civil lawsuit in the Federal District Court of Brasilia against the Brazilian controlling partner in the joint venture, as a result of the Brazilian partner’s failure to disclose financial information and operating results of Cuisine Solutions do Brasil Ltda to Cuisine Solutions according to both the joint venture agreement and Brazilian law. Due to the continued lack of cooperation from the Brazilian partner, the inability to obtain financial disclosures and the joint venture partners’ termination of business activity in Brazil, Cuisine Solutions wrote off 100% of its investment in the joint venture in fiscal year 2002. In 1999, the Company acquired the French company, Nouvelle Carte France, to supply airline customers in Europe as well as to supply global foodservice and retail customers. During fiscal year 2000, sales increased to $35.8 million, an increase of 30.2% over fiscal 1999. Fiscal year 2001 sales remained steady at $36.1 million while fiscal year 2002 sales decreased by 24.1% to $27.4 million due to the economic downturn during fiscal year 2002 precipitated largely by the terrorist attacks in the U.S. on September 11, 2001 and the subsequent negative impact on the travel industry. Fiscal year 2003 sales decreased by 2.9% to $26.6 million, primarily due to the decreased revenue of the Military, the On Board Services and the Foodservice channel in the U.S. During fiscal year 2004 and 2005, the Company had greater than 30% sales growth and in fiscal 2005 the Company returned to being profitable. The Company discontinued its manufacturing operations in Norway on October 26, 2004 as the Company had incurred consecutive losses from its operations in Norway since inception. The majority of the machinery and equipment used in the Norway facility was sold to Cuisine Solutions Chile, a venture in which Cuisine Solutions has a minority interest, and the salmon production that was formerly provided from Norway has been replaced by the production of salmon by Cuisine Solutions Chile. The Company listed its stock on the American Stock Exchange on February 24, 2005 under the ticker symbol FZN. In fiscal year 2005, the Company obtained a new source of salmon and other white fish raw material from Cuisine Solutions Chile, a company in which Cuisine Solutions has a minority interest, that owns and operates a new sous-vide plant in Chile that opened in August 2004. Cuisine Solutions has exclusive marketing rights in the U.S. and most of Europe for the sous-vide products produced by Cuisine Solutions Chile. 6 Fiscal year 2006 sales were at $64 million, a 38.6% increase over fiscal year 2005. The Company had positive growth in all five sales channels and believes that the prospects for growth in fiscal year 2007 are positive for all five channels. In May 2006, the Company purchased a new production facility in Le Pertre, France with approximately 46,000 square feet. In June 2006, the Company entered into a new lease agreement with its existing landlord to lease approximately 18,000 additional square feet, at its U.S. plant in Alexandria, Virginia, which expanded the facility from approximately 48,000 square feet to 66,000 square feet. PRODUCTS We develop, produce and market chef-created upscale fully cooked, frozen entrees and sauces. The products are exceptional quality items sold at a good value since they can be produced in large volumes. The product line consists of items not usually available to our customers from other sources such as salmon shanks, osso buco, Chilean sea bass, beef wellington, lamb shanks and stuffed pork chops as well as staple items such as plain and stuffed chicken breasts. We also offer a large line of sauces as well as enrobed pasta and rice products. The combination of the unique cooking process, the internal culinary expertise and international distribution has been critical to our strategy to date. The sous-vide cooking process involves preparing a product with the required ingredients, vacuum sealing the product, and cooking the product under water for precise times at precise temperatures. This precision in time and temperature allows us to produce the exact specification on any protein item produced. The process is controlled by computerized systems, and each item is cooked to exacting specifications every time. The cooking process also provides most protein items an eighteen-month shelf life without the need for any food additives or preservatives. We believe that our products have significant application with health conscience retailers and health care organizations due to the omission of additives in our products. We package our products in two ways; foodservice packs and retail carton packs. Most foodservice pack products are vacuum-sealed and frozen in either single or multi-serving packaging and then case-packed. Single-pack items provide maximum customer flexibility, while multi-serving packs provide additional efficiency and economy for large-scale preparations. The U.S. and French facilities package retail cartons for the frozen and refrigerated retail sales area for retail supermarkets. DISTRIBUTION Most of our sales are frozen products shipped throughout the U.S. and Europe. Cuisine Solutions produces a diversified product mix for Europe and the U.S., while the Company fulfills much of its international distribution of salmon through products produced by Cuisine Solutions Chile. All products are shipped frozen except for some retail sales in France, which are shipped refrigerated. The French retail sales are all final sales, and the retailer bears the risk for any unsold product. The Company maintains one additional third party warehouse for storage in France and four third-party outside warehouses in the U.S. at the end of fiscal year 2006. Most of the warehouses were secured to meet the demands of foodservice customers for short lead times and product availability. We can quickly and easily add or reduce outside warehouses when and where it is deemed necessary. We sell 100% of our product through our own sales personnel located in either France or the U.S. These sales are either made directly to end-users or to distributors who, in turn, sell our products to end-users. Cuisine Solutions Chile does not maintain its own sales force. Chilean products are sold to either Cuisine Solutions France or the U.S. for resale. U.S. sales are mostly made in the U.S., Canadian and Japanese markets, and French sales are mostly to European markets. RAW MATERIAL STATUS Prior to fiscal year 2005, we historically purchased our raw materials at spot market prices except for U.S. poultry, which was and continues to be purchased by agreement. The practice of spot market purchasing and bidding out to suppliers did not allow us to take advantage of annual low prices in certain markets, nor did it allow us to develop strategic partnerships with suppliers. During fiscal year 2005, we engaged in a more strategic approach to procurement and have developed strategic purchasing programs to purchase our raw materials from a number of different suppliers internationally with annual arrangements. These arrangements allow us to take advantage of annual low prices in certain markets and to develop strategic supply chain partnerships. During fiscal year 2006 and 2005, we experienced only small increases and, in certain raw materials, decreases in prices, due in part to the entering into several of these full year agreements with suppliers. Our largest cost is the purchase of raw materials, and therefore, management participated directly in the procurement process in fiscal year 2006 and 2005. In fiscal year 2007, we intend to seek greater cost savings by negotiating with our suppliers for further price reductions due to increased purchasing volumes, and buying at favorable times during the year when certain raw materials are in less demand or the supply is greater. TRADEMARKS We believe that our Cuisine Solutions, Inc. trademark is important to our business success. Accordingly, we take steps we believe are necessary to protect these trademarks. For example, during fiscal year 2002, we secured, in Europe and in the U.S., the service trademark “Your Culinary Partner” and “Votre Partenaire Culinaire” which is being used in our international advertising campaign. The Company also has many other trademarks that it believes require protection. In fiscal 2005, we trademarked Salmon Shank™ for our new product. We continually review the trademarks to determine whether there is value in paying the fees associated with maintaining registered trademarks. 7 CUSTOMER DEPENDENCY A large portion of our revenue has traditionally come from the supply of our products to travel-related customers. Since fiscal 2004, Cuisine Solutions has made a concerted effort to diversify its sales into retail, national restaurant chains, and the U.S. military channels. Growth in those areas continues to reduce our dependency on the travel industry. In fiscal 2006, some of the Company’s largest customers in terms of sales are companies outside of the travel related industry. Management believes that Cuisine Solutions’ revenue will continue to grow in the non-travel related channels. In particular, management believes that the Company will experience further growth in the military, national restaurant chain and retail channels in fiscal 2007, which will improve our ability to withstand potential future declines in the travel-related channels, such as the declines experienced by the travel industry in the wake of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. The Foodservice and National Restaurant Chain channels consist of a wide base of hotel banquet, restaurant, and convention centers in a decentralized purchase decision environment and management believes that no single customer in these channels can have a material impact on our total revenues. Retail has a smaller base of customers that create most of the demand for the packaged food lines. Although, the largest of the retail customer’s purchase decisions are also decentralized and so the loss of a single customer should not have a material impact. Our decision to diversify the U.S. military sales to include the Army in fiscal year 2004 was made to both grow the channel and to reduce dependency on the Navy. During fiscal year 2006, Ocean Direct, a distributor to the U.S. Army represented 13.6% of our total revenue and a Retail customer, Costco, accounted for 12.4% of our total revenue. We did not have sales to any one customer that represented 10% or more of the total business in fiscal year 2005 or fiscal year 2004. SEASONALITY The seasonality of the hotel banquet industry of the Foodservice channel demands typically peaks in September through December, and March through June. However, this is no longer a major impact on the Company due to the growing sales of the other four sales channels. We have also experienced seasonal fluctuations in our retail product channel as the demand generally decreases for fully cooked products during summer grilling season. The airline and train industries generally have more passengers traveling in the summer, and therefore, more first and business class meals served. The military may spend liberally toward the end of its fiscal year (September 30), or spend very little depending on whether or not there is money remaining in its fiscal budget. COMPETITION The Company considers itself to be the leader in upscale fully cooked frozen food with its sous-vide product line within the foodservice industry in the U.S. At present, limited competition exists within the U.S. frozen wholesale component of this product line. Other firms exist in France within the retail and refrigerated components of the sous-vide prepared foods. As such, we primarily compete for sales against foodservice providers in the frozen and raw segment, rather than against other upscale frozen or sous-vide suppliers. We offer value-added products, but must offer these products in a price range that makes it economically advantageous for our customers to convert from other methods of food preparation. We try to develop products that are non-comparable, so we can determine the market price, while we also believe our products can successfully compete with other comparable products in price when product quality, value and convenience are considered. We also offer implementation and menu development services, as well as equipment selections to our customers as another means of building sales. We depend upon our product development, marketing, and menu items as a means of maintaining our leadership position within the sous-vide industry. As of June 24, 2006 and June 25, 2005, our backlog approximated $1,192,000 and $1,651,000, respectively. RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT We spent $505,000, $398,000 and $391,000 in research and development expensed in fiscal years 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. We maintain a staff of experienced culinary and food science professionals in order to provide the marketplace with innovative products on a continuous basis. The international staffing in the U.S. and in France provides us with the latest in culinary trends on both sides of the Atlantic. The French facility provides a source of dedicated culinary professionals since the French culinary training is well-known for its dedication to the art of perfection with regard to food preparation. REGULATIONS We are subject to various Federal, state and local laws affecting our business, including health, sanitation and safety regulations. The U.S. plant operates under USDA supervision over the handling and labeling of its products. We believe our operations comply in all material respects with applicable laws and regulations. In addition to USDA standards, all subsidiary facilities are HACCP certified. Our production facilities in France are subject to similar requirements and have met European Community standards and regulations. EMPLOYEES We employ approximately 302 people including full-time and part-time workers and corporate staff. 8 GEOGRAPHIC SALES Our sales are primarily focused in the U.S. and France with sales in the U.S. representing 69.4%, 64.5% and 61.2% of total sales for fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, with the remaining sales in France. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS The following list and narrative sets forth the name and age of each present executive officer of the Company, all officer positions held by the person with the Company and the year in which the person first became an officer. Name Age Office held with Company Since Stanislas Vilgrain 47 Chief Executive Officer 1993 Thomas L. Gregg 42 President 2005 Felipe Hasselmann 37 Chief Operating Officer 2005 Yuyun Tristan Kuo 52 Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Corporate Secretary 2005 Gerard Bertholon 46 Corporate Chef and Vice President of Sales 2002 Mr. Vilgrain was appointed Chief Executive Officer in October 1993, having served as President and Chief Operating Officer since June 1991 and as a director since 1991. He served as President of the Vie de France Culinary Division from July 1987 to June 1991. Previously, he was employed by Vie de France Corporation as Director of Staff Operations from August 1986 through June 1987. He was Manager of the Vie de France Corporation’s San Francisco bakery from January 1986 through August 1986, after having served as Assistant Manager of the Denver bakery from July 1984 through December 1985. Prior to joining Vie de France Corporation, he was Assistant to the Director of Research & Development for the Bakery Division of Grands Moulins de Paris from June 1983 to July 1984, and was Regional Manager of Operations and Sales from July 1982 through May 1983 for O.F.U.P., a publication distributor in Paris, France. Mr. Gregg was appointed President on August 12, 2005. Mr. Gregg was appointed as President, U.S. of Cuisine Solutions, Inc. in January 2004. Mr. Gregg previously ran his own private investment firm, MacGregor Capital LLC from 2002 through 2004. During that period, Mr. Gregg served as an advisor and on the Advisory Board of Cuisine Solutions from January 2003 through 2004. From 1991 through 2001 Mr. Gregg served as Chief Executive Officer of 3-G International, Inc., a network security software company. Mr. Hasselmann was appointed Chief Operating Officer on August 12, 2005. Mr. Hasselmann was made Chief of Staff of Cuisine Solutions in January 2004. Mr. Hasselmann joined Cuisine Solutions in 2000 as an International Development Director in charge of the Brazilian implementation and business development. Prior to his work at Cuisine Solutions, Mr. Hasselmann was the National Director of Business Development in Brazil of L’Oreal Paris, and he was also responsible for the L’Oreal Latin America Sales Committee Area from 1995 to 2000. From 1992 to 1995, Mr. Hasselmann served as Regional Division Manager of Frito Lay, and he was a Regional Sales Manager of Coca Cola from 1989 to 1992. Mr. Kuo was named Chief Financial Officer on August 12, 2005. Mr. Kuo previously served as Vice President of Finance since January 2004. The Board appointed Mr. Kuo Corporate Secretary and Treasurer in March 2004. Prior to that, Mr. Kuo was the Company’s Corporate Controller since December 2002. Prior to that, Mr. Kuo served as Vice President of Information Systems of Zinc Corporation of America from 2001 to 2002 and Chief Information Officer and Controller of Wise Metals Group, the largest independent aluminum sheet producer in the U.S., from 1991 to 2001. Mr. Bertholon joined Cuisine Solutions in August 1989 as Director of Research & Development then VP of International Sales in 1997 and VP of Marketing in December 2000. He has over 27 years of experience and recognition in the international foodservice industry. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Bertholon was an Executive Chef for 9 years in the U.S. Mr. Bertholon’s current titles in the Company are Corporate Chef and Vice President of Sales. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating the Company’s business and the forward-looking information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, operating results, financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. While the Company believes it has identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting its business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect the Company’s business, performance or financial condition in the future. 9 The Company’s foreign operations subject it to a number of risks. In fiscal year 2006, 30.6% of the Company’s sales were generated in foreign countries. The Company’s foreign operations are subject to the risks described in this section, as well as risks related to fluctuations in the value of the U.S. Dollar as compared to the local currencies, economic and political uncertainties in such countries. The Company’s subsidiaries generally conduct their businesses in local currency and, for purposes of financial reporting, their results are translated into U.S. Dollars based on average exchange rates prevailing during a reporting period. During times of a strengthening U.S. Dollar, the Company’s reported revenues and operating income will be reduced because the local currency will be translated into fewer U.S. dollars. As a result, the foreign exchange fluctuations could adversely affect the Company’s profitability. Increases in interest rates may have an adverse impact on the Company’s profitability. The Company has total outstanding short-term borrowings of $1,000,000 which accrue interest at a variable rate based on prevailing interest rates (8.5% as of June 24, 2006). The Company has not used derivative financial instruments to hedge its interest rate exposure. Therefore, the Company cannot assure that future interest rate increases will not have a negative impact on its business, financial position or operating results. Fluctuation in the availability and price of raw materials may increase the Company’s operating costs, resulting in an adverse impact on the Company’s margins. The Company purchases certain raw materials that are subject to availability and price fluctuations caused by seasonality, weather and other factors. While the movements of raw material costs and the fluctuation of availability are uncertain in fiscal 2005, the Company developed strategic purchasing programs to purchase its raw materials from a number of different suppliers internationally with annual arrangements. However, the implementation of these strategies might not effectively limit or eliminate the exposure to a decline in operating results due to changes in raw material prices and availability. Therefore, the Company cannot assure you that future costs and availability fluctuations in raw material will not have a negative impact on its margins, which could harm the Company’s business, financial position or results of operations. The Company does not enter into long term contracts with its customers, and the loss of one or more significant customers could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. A large portion of Cuisine Solutions’ revenue has traditionally come from the supply of its products to travel-related customers. In fiscal year 2002 and 2003, the Company’s sales declined tremendously as the travel-related industries experienced a major set back in the wake of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. Since fiscal 2004, Cuisine Solutions has made a concerted effort to diversify its sales into other sales channels. Growth in those areas continues to reduce the Company’s dependency on the travel industry. However, the success in implementing this diversification strategy might not limit or eliminate the risk of concentration of sales to certain number of customers. In fiscal 2006, one Military distributor and one Retail customer replaced retail customers as the Company’s two largest customers. Generally, the Company does not enter into long term supply contracts with its customers and, as a result, these customers may generally discontinue purchasing the Company’s products at any time. For example, the Company cannot guarantee that the Army will continue to purchase the items from the Company since the length of time that U.S. troops will remain in the war zones can not be anticipated. The Company is exposed to a number of risks associated with food production, any of which could result in a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company faces all of the risks inherent in the production and distribution of frozen food products, including contamination, adulteration, spoilage, and the associated risks of product liability litigation, which may occur even with an isolated event. Although the Company has modern production facilities, has obtained the governmental approvals that it believes are required for its operations, and employs what it believes are the necessary processes and equipment in order to insure food safety, there can be no assurance that the Company’s procedures will be adequate to prevent the occurrence of such events. Claims alleging problems with the Company’s products, whether or not successful, would likely be expensive to defend, distract management’s attention and could potentially expose the Company to significant liabilities. Although the Company maintains insurance to protect itself against such liabilities, these policies are subject to exclusions and limitations, and there can be no assurance that such insurance would be sufficient to satisfy such liabilities. In any event, regardless of the merit or ultimate success of any claims, such accusations could significantly harm the Company’s reputation, thereby leading to a material adverse effect on the Company’s sales and results of operations. The markets in which the Company competes are highly competitive. The food industry is highly competitive. While the Company currently faces little direct competition in the U.S. from very large competitors in the premium, fully cooked, frozen food market, these potential competitors could choose to enter the Company’s markets. Such company’s are larger and have access to significantly greater financial and other resources than the Company. If large food companies elect to enter the premium markets in which the Company competes, they could outspend the Company and decrease the Company’s market share and potentially drive down prevailing prices in these markets, which would have a material adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations. 10 The Company depends on common carriers to deliver its products, and the disruption of such delivery channels could have an adverse impact on the Company’s ability to deliver its products to market. Logistics and other transportation-related costs have a significant impact on the Company’s earnings and results of operations. The Company uses multiple forms of transportation to bring its products to market. They include trucks, planes, rail cars, and ships. Disruption to the timely supply of these services or increases in the cost of these services for any reason, including availability or cost of fuel, regulations affecting the industry, or labor shortages in the transportation industry, could have an adverse effect on the Company’s ability to serve its customers, and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial performance. As a food company, we are required to comply with many federal, state and local laws and regulations, and the failure to comply with applicable laws could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s reputation and results of operations. The company’s facilities and products are subject to many laws and regulations administered by the United States Department of Agriculture, the Federal Food and Drug Administration, and other federal, state, local, and foreign governmental agencies relating to the processing, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising, labeling, quality, and safety of food products. The Company’s failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject it to administrative penalties and injunctive relief, civil remedies, including fines, injunctions and recalls of its products, and negative publicity. Our future financial performance is subject to a number of additional uncertainties, any of which could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s ability to generate cash to meet its expenses and debt service obligations and to otherwise reduce its debt as anticipated will depend on its future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, legislative, regulatory and other factors, including potential changes in consumer preferences, the success of product and marketing innovation and pressure from competitors. Many of these factors are beyond the Company’s control. Any factor that negatively affects the Company’s results of operations, including its cash flow, may also negatively affect its ability to pay the principal and interest on its outstanding debt. If the Company is unable to reduce its debt as anticipated, its interest expense could be materially higher than anticipated and its financial performance could be adversely affected. If the Company does not have enough cash to pay its debt service obligations, it may be required to amend its credit facility or indentures, refinance all or part of its existing debt, sell assets, incur additional indebtedness or raise equity. The Company cannot assure you that it will be able, at any given time, to take any of these actions on terms acceptable to it or at all. The market price of the Company’s common stock may fluctuate significantly for reasons beyond the Company’s control and potentially unrelated to the Company’s performance. The market price and marketability of the Company’s common stock may from time to time be significantly affected by numerous factors, including many over which the Company has no control and that may not be directly related to the Company. These factors include the following: • price and volume fluctuations in the stock market from time to time, which are often unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies; • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of shares of food companies, which is not necessarily related to the operating performance of these companies; • changes in regulatory policies; • changes in the Company’s earnings or variations in the Company’s operating results; • any shortfall in the Company’s revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by securities analysts; • departure of key personnel of the Company; • operating performance of companies comparable to the Company; • general economic trends and other external factors; • loss of one or more of the Company’s significant customers; and • loss of a major funding source. Fluctuations in the trading prices of the Company’s shares may adversely affect the liquidity of the trading market for the shares and, if the Company seeks to raise capital through future equity financings, its ability to raise such equity capital. The market for the Company’s common stock has recently been characterized by relatively low trading volume, and high trading volume could result in a significant decline in the Company’s stock price. In the past, the market for the Company’s common stock has been characterized by low and somewhat sporadic trading volume, which has in the past led to extreme price volatility. A large volume of stock being sold into the market at any one time or over a short period of time, or the perception that such events will occur, could cause the Company’s stock price to rapidly decline. 11 Members of the Vilgrain family and their affiliates control a majority of the Company’s common stock and are able to exert significant control over the Company’s future direction. Members of the Vilgrain family and their affiliates together control approximately 59.8% of the Company’s outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, if they act together, are able to exert significant influence, as a practical matter, on all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. Additionally, three members of the Vilgrain family serve on the Company’s board of directors, including Stanislas Vilgrain, who also serves as the Company’s chief executive officer. As a result, this concentration of ownership and representation on the Company’s board of directors and management may delay, prevent or deter a change in control, could deprive the Company’s stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of the Company or its assets and might reduce the market price of the Company’s common stock. 