Item 1A. Risk Factors Technological change could cause our products to become non-competitive or obsolete. The market for our products and services is characterized by rapid and significant technological change and quickly evolving industry standards. New product introductions responsive to these factors require significant planning, design, development, and testing. We can provide no assurance that our products will remain competitive in this fast changing environment. In addition, industry acceptance of new technologies we seek to introduce may be slow to develop. We could incur substantial costs in protecting and defending our intellectual property and loss of patent rights could have a material adverse effect on our business. We hold patents relating to various aspects of our products and believe that proprietary technical know-how is critical to many of our products. Proprietary rights relating to our products are protected from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that they are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are maintained in confidence as trade secrets. There can be no assurance that patents will issue from any pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us or that the claims allowed under any issued patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In the absence of patent protection, we may be vulnerable to competitors who attempt to copy our products or gain access to our trade secrets and technical know-how. Our competitors could also initiate litigation to challenge the validity of our patents or may use their resources to design comparable products that do not infringe upon our patents. We could incur substantial costs in defending OI in suits brought against us or in suits in which we may assert our patent rights against others. If the outcome of any such litigation is unfavorable to us, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we rely on trade secrets and proprietary technical know-how that we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our collaborators, employees, and consultants. We can provide no assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that we would have adequate remedies for any breach, or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. Our Extensive R&D efforts may not result in products that are successful in the marketplace. To maintain our market share for existing products and to gain market share in new markets such as homeland security, we must invest heavily each year in R&D spending. This R&D spending often involves new technologies or updates to existing technology. We can provide no assurance that our R&D efforts to develop new technology or efforts to acquire new technology from third parties will be successful or that new products we may develop through such efforts will be successful in the marketplace. Consolidation in the environmental instrument market and changes in environmental regulations could adversely affect our business. Environmental analysis, which represents a significant market for our products, has exhibited a trend of contraction and consolidation in recent years. Continuation of this trend could have an adverse impact on our business. In addition, most air, water, and soil analyses are conducted to comply with federal, state, local, and foreign environmental regulations. These regulations are frequently specific as to the type of technology required for a particular analysis and the level of detection required for that analysis. We develop, configure and market our products to meet customer needs created by existing and expected environmental regulations. These regulations may be amended or eliminated in response to new scientific evidence or political or economic considerations. Any significant change in environmental regulations could result in a reduction in demand for our products. Our results of operations are dependent on our relationship with Agilent. We operate under an original equipment manufacturer (or “OEM”) agreement with Agilent, which has been in place for several years. Our OEM agreement does not provide for marketing cooperation between us and Agilent. As a result, we compete with Agilent for the same business in some cases. We can provide no assurance that Agilent will renew our OEM agreement, which is renewable annually, or that we will sustain current sales levels in the future under the Agilent OEM agreement. As we continue to evaluate alternatives, we may decide that continuing the OEM agreement is not our best strategy. A decision on our part to discontinue the agreement would place at risk a substantial part of our GC systems sales and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 6 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Economic, political, and other risks associated with international sales could adversely affect our results of operations. Sales outside the U.S. accounted for approximately 30% of our revenues in 2007. We expect international sales to account for a significant portion of our future revenues. Sales to international customers are subject to a number of risks including interruption to transportation flows for delivery of finished goods to customers; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in political or economic conditions in a specific country or region; trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; negative consequences from changes in tax laws; differing protection of intellectual property; and unexpected changes in regulatory requirements. Unfavorable developments in these areas could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Parts shortages or excess parts inventory could adversely affect our earnings. We rely on various component parts to meet production demands. Should we encounter a shortage due to loss of a single source supplier or group of suppliers, for example, we may suffer a loss in sales, which could detrimentally impact our earnings. In certain cases, we enter into non-cancelable purchase commitments with vendors to secure components at the best available price. Should market demand for our products decline unexpectedly, we may develop excess parts inventory which could result in inventory write-downs that would negatively impact our financial position. We are a small organization and we face many risks inherent in operating a microcap public company. Because we are a relatively small organization, we have limited resources both in terms of our physical facilities and human resources. Should we suffer a catastrophic loss in either of our primary facilities, we could face a significant disruption in our business. To be successful, we rely on the performance of our employees including key executives such as our CEO/CFO who serves in a dual capacity, sales and marketing professionals, technical staff, managers and production personnel. In addition, we have a small accounting and finance group charged with the responsibility of public reporting issues and the increasingly complex requirements of generally accepted accounting principles in the United States in addition to normal day to day accounting operations. Our ability to meet customer demand could be negatively impacted if we are unable to attract, hire, train, retain and motivate qualified employees. As a small company, the cost of compliance with governmental regulations, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or SOX, continues to escalate and represents a significant expenditure of funds. We are considered a microcap company and have a relatively small number of shares of common stock outstanding, with insiders and holders of 5% or more shares owning a significant portion of our stock. Because of this concentration of ownership, our common stock is thinly traded and experiences some periods with no transactions. This lack of public float adversely affects the liquidity of an investment in our shares. Potential acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures and divestitures could result in financial results that do not meet expectations. We believe that we are well positioned to pursue acquisitions and plan to consider a growth strategy that could potentially include acquisitions, strategic alliances or joint ventures. Certain business acquisitions and strategic alliances in past years, including the strategic alliance with Intelligent Ion, Inc., and the acquisition of General Analysis Corporation, have produced losses or profitability well below our expectation. Businesses we may seek to acquire in the future may also fall short of our profit objectives. To finance potential acquisitions, we may need to raise additional funds either through public or private financing. We may have difficulty in obtaining debt financing on terms we find attractive, while equity financing can result in significant dilution to our shareholders. Should we complete such a transaction, our financial results may differ from the investment community’s expectations. We could potentially experience difficulty developing, manufacturing, and marketing the products of a newly acquired company in a way that enhances performance of the combined businesses or product lines to realize the value from expected synergies. Depending on the size and complexity of an acquisition, our successful integration of the entity depends on a variety of factors including: retention of key employees; management of facilities and employees in separate geographic areas; retention of key customers; and the integration or coordination of different research and development, product manufacturing and sales programs and facilities. All of these efforts require varying levels of management resources that may divert our attention from other business operations. If we do not realize the expected benefits or synergies of such transactions, our consolidated financial position, results of operations and stock price could be negatively impacted. 7 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We have entered into strategic alliances to increase our product offering of GC sample introduction products and to sell existing products through additional channels. Our sales under these agreements may not meet management expectations, which could result in the termination of these agreements. On the other hand, should such sales meet or exceed our expectations, we may become more reliant on the revenues generated in connection with these agreements, which are subject to cancellation. We have plans to enter into a credit facility and may incur other debt in the future. We plan to enter into a revolving line of credit facility under which we may borrow up to $6 million. Although we have no current plans to request any advances under this credit facility, we may use the proceeds of any future borrowing for general corporate purposes, future acquisitions, repurchases of outstanding shares of common stock or expansion of our business within certain limitations. Such use of this credit facility could adversely affect our operating results and financial conditions by: increasing our vulnerability to downturns in our business, to competitive pressures and to adverse economic and industry conditions; requiring the dedication of a portion of our expected cash from operations to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of expected cash flow available for other purposes, including capital expenditures and acquisitions; and limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry. Once finalized, the revolving credit facility could impose restrictions on us should we utilize the facility, including restrictions on our ability to create liens on our assets and maintaining compliance with specified financial ratios. Our ability to comply with these ratios could be affected by events beyond our control. Should we breach any of the covenants of our revolving credit facility and not obtain a waiver from our lender, then, subject to applicable cure periods, our outstanding indebtedness could be declared immediately due and payable. We are relying on a newly implemented enterprise resource planning system for inventory management, distribution, and other functions. In July of 2007, we implemented a new enterprise resource planning system. We rely on this system to effectively manage accounting and financial functions, order entry and fulfillment, and inventory. Any disruption in the operation of this system could result in a material adverse impact on our sales and results of operation including putting at risk our ability to accurately report operating results, financial position, and cash flows. We have suffered losses and may suffer further losses due to the deterioration of the credit quality of investment securities. We have historically made investments following internal guidelines on acceptable investment securities that designate minimum credit quality, maturity parameters and other investment criteria designed to minimize our market risk. As of December 31, 2007, our preferred stock portfolio totaled $2,170,000 at cost, resulting from investments in prior years that were intended to improve after tax yield. Due to recent turbulence in the financial markets we recorded a loss of $353,000 in the fourth quarter of 2007 on our preferred stock holdings issued by financial brokerage institutions. This loss reduces our carrying value on these holdings to the current market value at December 31, 2007 based on our determination that this impairment in value is not temporary in nature. We will seek to reduce our holdings of these investments as market conditions allow but we could face further write-downs should the instability in financial markets cause further erosion. The matters relating to the investigation by the Special Committee of our Board of Directors into our stock option granting and exercise practices may result in future litigation that could harm our financial condition and results of operations. On January 22, 2007, we announced that we were conducting a voluntary internal review of our historical stock option grants, stock option exercises and related option and compensation procedures and certain accounting matters. This review was performed at the direction of a Special Committee of our Board of Directors composed of three independent directors assisted by outside legal counsel and other outside consultants. On March 23, 2007, we announced the principal findings of the Special Committee of its Board of Directors relating to this investigation, a summary of which can be found in our Current Report on Form 8-K filed March 23, 2007. This review of our historical stock option granting practices required us to incur substantial expenses for legal, accounting and other professional services, and served as a distraction to management. Our historical stock option granting, stock option exercise and related option and compensation procedures practices have exposed us to greater risks associated with litigation and regulatory proceedings. There can be no guarantee that any such litigation or regulatory reviews will reach the same conclusions as that of the Special Committee. The conduct and resolution of these matters could be time consuming, expensive and distracting from the conduct of our business. 8 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We voluntarily contacted the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, or the “SEC”, regarding the Special Committee’s investigation and have shared the results of the Special Committee investigation with the SEC. On February 11, 2008, we received a letter from the SEC indicating their investigation is complete and that they do not intend to pursue an enforcement action. We believe this matter is now concluded. However, the results of the investigation and the actions taken by us in connection with the investigation may make us the target of further litigation by our shareholders or others. If we are subject to adverse findings in any of these other matters, we could be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed upon us which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 