ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE COULD CAUSE OUR PRODUCTS TO BECOME NON-COMPETITIVE OR OBSOLETE. The market for our products and services is characterized by rapid and significant technological change and quickly evolving industry standards. New product introductions responsive to these factors require significant planning, design, development, and testing. We can provide no assurance that our products will remain competitive in this fast changing environment. In addition, industry acceptance of new technologies we seek to develop may be slow to develop due to existing regulations that apply specifically to older technologies, the general unfamiliarity of users with new technologies and other factors. WE COULD INCUR SUBSTANTIAL COSTS IN PROTECTING AND DEFENDING OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND LOSS OF PATENT RIGHTS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS. We hold patents relating to various aspects of our products and believe that proprietary technical know-how is critical to many of our products. Proprietary rights relating to our products are protected from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that they are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are maintained in confidence as trade secrets. There can be no assurance that patents will issue from any pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us or that the claims allowed under any issued patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In the absence of patent protection, we may be vulnerable to competitors who attempt to copy our products or gain access to our trade secrets and technical know-how. Our competitors could also initiate litigation to challenge the validity of our patents, or may use their resources to design comparable products that do not infringe upon our patents. We could incur substantial costs in defending OI in suits brought against us or in suits in which we may assert our patent rights against others. If the outcome of any such litigation is unfavorable to us, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we rely on trade secrets and proprietary technical know-how that we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our collaborators, employees, and consultants. We can provide no assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that we would have adequate remedies for any breach, or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. OUR EXTENSIVE R&D EFFORTS MAY NOT RESULT IN PRODUCTS THAT ARE SUCCESSFUL IN THE MARKETPLACE. To maintain our market share for existing products and to gain market share in new markets such as homeland security, we must invest heavily each year in R&D spending. This R&D spending often involves new technologies or updates of existing technology. We can provide no assurance that our R&D efforts to develop new technology or efforts to acquire new technology from third parties will be successful, or that new products we may develop through such efforts will be successful in the marketplace. CONSOLIDATION IN THE ENVIRONMENTAL INSTRUMENT MARKET AND CHANGES IN ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. Environmental analysis, which represents a significant market for our products, has exhibited a trend of contraction and consolidation in recent years. Continuation of this trend could have an adverse impact on our business. In addition, most air, water, and soil analyses are conducted to comply with federal, state, local, and foreign environmental regulations. These regulations are frequently specific as to the type of technology required for a particular analysis and the level of detection required for that analysis. We develop, configure and market our products to meet customer needs created by existing and expected environmental regulations. These regulations may be amended or eliminated in response to new scientific evidence or political or economic considerations. Any significant change in environmental regulations could result in a reduction in demand for our products. OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS ARE DEPENDENT ON OUR RELATIONSHIP WITH AGILENT. We operate under an original equipment manufacturer, or OEM, agreement with Agilent, which has been in place for several years. Our OEM agreement provides for no marketing cooperation between the two companies. As a result, we compete with Agilent for the same business in some cases. We can provide no assurance that Agilent will renew our OEM agreement, which is renewable annually, or that we will sustain current sales levels in the future under the Agilent OEM agreement. As we continue to evaluate alternatives, we may decide that continuing the OEM agreement is not our best strategy. A decision on our part to discontinue the agreement would place at risk a substantial part of our GC systems sales and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. ECONOMIC, POLITICAL, AND OTHER RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH INTERNATIONAL SALES COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Sales outside the U. S. accounted for approximately 30% of our revenues in 2006. We expect international sales to account for a significant portion of our future revenues. Sales to international customers are 9 subject to a number of risks including interruption to transportation flows for delivery of finished goods to customers; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in political or economic conditions in a specific country or region; trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; negative consequences from changes in tax laws; differing protection of intellectual property; and unexpected changes in regulatory requirements. Unfavorable developments in these areas could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. PARTS SHORTAGES OR EXCESS PARTS INVENTORY COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR EARNINGS. We rely on various component parts to meet production demands. Should we encounter a shortage due to loss of a single source supplier or group of suppliers, for example, we may suffer a loss in sales, which could detrimentally impact our earnings. In certain cases, we enter into non-cancelable purchase commitments with vendors to secure components at the best available price. Should market demand for our products decline unexpectedly, we may develop excess parts inventory, which could result in inventory write-downs that would negatively impact our financial position. AS A SMALL ORGANIZATION, WE FACE MANY RISKS INHERENT IN OPERATING A MICROCAP PUBLIC COMPANY. Because we are a relatively small organization, we have limited resources both in terms of our physical facilities and human resources. Should we suffer a catastrophic loss in either of our primary facilities, we could face a significant disruption in our business. To be successful, we rely on the performance of our employees including key executives, sales and marketing professionals, technical staff, managers and production personnel. Our ability to meet customer demand could be negatively impacted if we are unable to attract, hire, train, retain and motivate qualified employees. In addition, as a small company, the cost of compliance with governmental regulations, including recently enacted securities laws such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or SOX, continues to escalate and represents a significant expenditure of funds. We are currently documenting and further evaluating our internal control systems to comply with the assessment and attestation requirements of SOX Section 404. Our financial position and results of operation could be negatively impacted if we encounter unexpected difficulties in SOX or other regulatory compliance. As a microcap company we have a relatively small number of shares of common stock outstanding, with insiders and holders of 5% or more shares owning a significant portion of our stock. Because of this concentration of ownership, our common stock is thinly traded and experiences some periods with no transactions. This lack of public float adversely affects the liquidity of an investment in our shares. OUR UPCOMING IMPLEMENTATION OF A NEW COMPUTER SYSTEM COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE AFFECT ON OUR OPERATIONS. During 2006, we began the implementation of an enterprise resource planning, or ERP, system. Our plans are to begin using the new ERP system during the second quarter of 2007. Implementation of this new ERP system is a major undertaking for us, touching on all facets of our business and impacting virtually every employee. We have conducted and continue to perform pre-implementation testing and training. In addition, we plan to conduct post-implementation reviews to ensure that internal controls surrounding the system implementation process, application programs and the closing process are properly designed to capture all transactions while preventing material financial statement errors. Operating effectiveness of related controls will be evaluated during the implementation. Despite our rigorous planning and exhaustive efforts to ensure a smooth implementation while maintaining appropriate internal controls, we could potentially experience business disruptions and/or internal control deficiencies. A business disruption could result in a material adverse impact on our sales and results of operation while an internal control deficiency could put at risk our ability to accurately report operating results, financial position and cash flows. WE ARE SUBJECT TO LAWS AND REGULATIONS GOVERNING GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS, AND FAILURE TO ADDRESS THESE LAWS AND REGULATIONS OR COMPLY WITH GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS BY LEADING TO A REDUCTION IN REVENUE ASSOCIATED WITH THESE CUSTOMERS. In recent periods we have increased our emphasis on governmental sales and have obtained agreements relating to the sale of our products and services to government entities. As a result, we are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with the government. The laws governing government contracts differ from the laws governing private contracts. For example, many government contracts contain pricing terms and conditions that are not applicable to private contracts. We are also subject to investigation for compliance with the regulations governing government contracts. A failure to comply with these regulations might result in suspension of these contracts, or administrative penalties. COMPLIANCE WITH GOVERNMENTAL REGULATIONS MAY CAUSE US TO INCUR SIGNIFICANT EXPENSES, AND FAILURE TO MAINTAIN COMPLIANCE WITH CERTAIN GOVERNMENTAL REGULATIONS COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR BUSINESS AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Our products and operations are subject to various international, federal, state, local, health and safety, 10 packaging, product content, and labor regulations as well as rules of industrial standards bodies such as the International Standards Organization. These regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. For example, our chemical analysis products are used in the drug design and production processes to test compliance with the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, and similar regulations. As a result, we must continually adapt our chemical analysis products to changing regulations. We could incur significant expenses to comply with these regulations or to remedy violations of these regulations. The failure to comply with applicable government regulations could also result in a cessation of operations or portions of our operations, product recalls or impositions of fines and restrictions on our ability to carry on or expand operations. In addition, because many of our products are regulated or sold into regulated industries, we must comply with additional regulations in marketing these products. POTENTIAL ACQUISITIONS, STRATEGIC ALLIANCES, JOINT VENTURES AND DIVESTITURES COULD RESULT IN FINANCIAL RESULTS THAT DO NOT MEET EXPECTATIONS. We are well positioned to pursue acquisitions and plan to consider a growth strategy that could potentially include acquisitions, strategic alliances or joint ventures. Certain businesses acquisitions and strategic alliances in past years, including the strategic alliance with Intelligent Ion, Inc. and the acquisition of General Analysis Corporation, have produced losses or profitability well below our expectation. Businesses we may seek to acquire in the future may also fall short of our profit objectives. For an acquired business to achieve our desired level of profitability, we need to successfully assimilate the acquired company's operations and improve their market penetration. We can provide no assurance of future success in this regard. To finance potential acquisitions, we may need to raise additional funds either through public or private financing. We may have difficulty in obtaining debt financing on terms we find attractive, while equity financing can result in significant dilution to our shareholders. Should we complete such a transaction, our financial results may differ from the investment community's expectations. In addition, acquisitions and strategic alliances often require the integration of a different company culture, management team and business infrastructure. We could potentially experience difficulty developing, manufacturing, and marketing the products of a newly acquired company in a way that enhances performance of the combined businesses or product lines to realize the value from expected synergies. Depending on the size and complexity of an acquisition, our successful integration of the entity depends on a variety of factors including: retention of key employees; management of facilities and employees in separate geographic areas; retention of key customers; and the integration or coordination of different research and development, product manufacturing and sales programs and facilities. All of these efforts require varying levels of management resources that may divert our attention from other business operations. If we do not realize the expected benefits or synergies of such transactions, our consolidated financial position, results of operations and stock price could be negatively impacted. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 