ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are significant factors known to us that could materially adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition, or future financial performance. If economic conditions and outlook in the United States and in the other countries in which we conduct business do not improve or if they worsen, our net sales and earnings could be adversely affected. Demand for our products depends upon economic conditions and outlook in the U.S. and in the other countries in which we conduct business, which include but are not limited to recessionary conditions; slow or negative economic growth rates; the impact of state debt and sovereign debt defaults by certain European countries; slow down or reductions in levels of golf course development, renovation, and improvement; golf course closures; continuation of reduced levels of home ownership, construction, and sales; home foreclosures; negative consumer confidence; reduced consumer spending levels; prolonged high unemployment rates; higher commodity and components costs and fuel prices; inflationary or deflationary pressures; reduced credit availability or unfavorable credit terms for our distributors, dealers, and end-user customers; higher short-term, mortgage, and other interest rates; and general economic and political conditions and expectations. In the past, some of these factors have caused our distributors, dealers, and end-user customers to reduce spending and delay or forego purchases of our products, which has had an adverse effect on our net sales and earnings. If economic conditions and outlook in the U.S., Europe, and in the other countries in which we conduct business do not improve, or if they worsen, our net sales and earnings could be adversely affected in the future. Weather conditions may reduce demand for some of our products and adversely affect our net sales or otherwise adversely affect our operating results. From time to time, weather conditions in a particular geographic region may adversely affect sales and field inventory levels of some of our products. For example, in the past, drought conditions have had an adverse effect on sales of certain mowing equipment products, unusually rainy weather or severe drought conditions that result in watering bans have had an adverse effect on sales of our irrigation products, and lower snow fall accumulations in key markets have had an adverse effect on sales of our snow thrower products. Similarly, adverse weather conditions in one season may adversely affect customer purchasing patterns and our net sales for some of our products in another season. For example, lower snow fall accumulations may result in lower winter season revenues for landscape contractor professionals, causing such customers to forego or postpone spring purchases of our mowing products. To the extent that unfavorable weather conditions are exacerbated by global climate change or otherwise, our sales and other operating results may be affected to a greater degree than we have previously experienced. Increases in the cost, or disruption in the availability, of raw materials and components that we purchase and/or increases in our other costs of doing business, such as transportation costs, may adversely affect our profit margins and businesses. We purchase raw materials such as steel, aluminum, fuel, petroleum-based resins, linerboard, and other commodities, and components, such as engines, transmissions, transaxles, hydraulics, and electric motors, for use in our products. In addition, we are a purchaser of components and parts containing various commodities, including steel, aluminum, copper, lead, rubber, and others that are integrated into our end products. To the extent that commodity prices increase and we do not have firm pricing from our suppliers, or our suppliers are not able to honor such prices, increases in the cost of such raw materials and components and parts may adversely affect our profit margins if we are unable to pass along to our customers these cost increases in the form of price increases or otherwise reduce our cost of goods sold. Historically, we have engaged in proactive vendor negotiations, used alternate sourcing options, substituted materials, engaged in internal cost reduction efforts, and introduced moderate price increases on some of our products to offset a portion of increased raw material, component, and other costs. However, we may not be able to fully offset such increased costs in the future. Further, if our price increases are not accepted by our customers and the market, our net sales, profit margins, earnings, and market share could be adversely affected. Increases in our other costs of doing business may also adversely affect our profit margins and business. For example, an increase in fuel costs may result in an increase in our transportation costs, which also could adversely affect our operating results and business. Although most of the raw materials and components used in our products are generally commercially available from a number of sources and in adequate supply, certain components are sourced from single suppliers. Any disruption in the availability of such raw materials and components from our suppliers, our inability to timely or otherwise obtain substitutes for such items, or any deterioration in our relationships with or the financial viability of our suppliers could adversely affect our business. 11 Our professional segment net sales are dependent upon golf course revenues and the amount of investment in golf course renovations and improvements; the level of new golf course development and golf course closures; the level of homeowners who outsource their lawn care; the level of residential and commercial construction; the availability of credit to professional segment customers on acceptable terms to finance new product purchases; and amount of government revenues, budget, and spending levels for grounds maintenance equipment. Our professional segment products are sold by distributors or dealers, or directly to government customers, rental companies, and professional users engaged in maintaining and creating landscapes, such as golf courses, sports fields, residential and commercial landscapes, and governmental and municipal properties. Accordingly, our professional segment net sales are impacted by golf course revenues and the amount of investment in golf course renovations and improvements; the level of new golf course development and golf course closures; the level of homeowners' who outsource their lawn care; the level of residential and commercial construction; availability of cash or credit on acceptable terms to finance new product purchases; and the amount of government spending for new grounds maintenance equipment. Among other things, any one or a combination of the following factors could have an adverse effect on our professional segment net sales: •reduced levels of investment in golf course renovations and improvements and new golf course development; reduced number of golf rounds played at public and private golf courses resulting in reduced revenue for such golf courses; decreased membership at private golf courses resulting in reduced revenue and, in certain cases, financial difficulties for such golf courses; and increased number of golf course closures, any one of which or any combination of which could result in a decrease in spending and demand for our products; •reduced consumer and business spending, causing homeowners and landscape contractor professionals to forego or postpone purchases of our products; •low or reduced levels of commercial and residential construction, resulting in a decrease in demand for our products; •reduced tax revenue, increased governmental expenses in other areas, tighter government budgets and government deficits, generally resulting in reduced government spending for grounds maintenance equipment; and •product availability issues if we underestimate or overestimate demand, which could negatively impact our net sales and hinder our ability to meet customer demand. Additionally, lower sales of professional segment products that carry higher profit margins than our residential segment products could negatively impact our profit margins and net earnings. Our residential segment net sales are dependent upon mass retailers and home centers, such as The Home Depot, Inc. as a major customer, the amount of product placement at retailers, consumer confidence and spending levels, and changing buying patterns of customers. The elimination or reduction of shelf space assigned to our residential products by retailers could adversely affect our residential segment net sales. Our residential segment net sales are also dependent upon buying patterns of customers. For example, as consumers purchase products at home centers and mass retailers that offer broader and lower price points, this has resulted in increased demand and sales of our residential segment products purchased at retailers, such as The Home Depot, which accounted for approximately 11 to 14 percent of our total consolidated net sales in each of fiscal 2011, 2010, and 2009. We believe that our diverse distribution channels and customer base should reduce the long-term impact on us if we were to lose The Home Depot or any other substantial customer. However, the loss of any substantial customer, a significant reduction in sales to The Home Depot or other customers, or our inability to respond to future changes in buying patterns of customers or new distribution channels could have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results. Changing buying patterns of customers also could result in reduced sales of one or more of our residential segment products, resulting in increased inventory levels. Our residential lawn and garden products are generally manufactured throughout the year and our residential snow removal products are generally manufactured in the summer and fall months but may be extended into the winter months depending upon demand. However, our production levels and inventory management goals for all residential segment products are based on estimates of retail demand for our products, taking into account production capacity, timing of shipments, and field inventory levels. If we overestimate or underestimate demand during a given season, we may not maintain the appropriate inventory levels, which could negatively impact our net sales or working capital, and hinder our ability to meet customer demand. A significant percentage of our consolidated net sales are generated outside of the United States, and we intend to continue to expand our international operations. Our international operations require significant management attention and financial resources, expose us to difficulties presented by international economic, political, legal, accounting, and business factors, and may not be successful or produce desired levels of net sales. We currently manufacture our products in the United States, Mexico, Australia, the United Kingdom, and Italy for sale throughout the world and, in late fiscal 2011, we completed the construction of 12 our new manufacturing facility in Romania. We maintain sales offices in the United States, Belgium, the United Kingdom, France, Australia, Singapore, Japan, China, Italy, Korea, and Germany. Our net sales outside the United States were 32.3 percent, 31.8 percent, and 32.0 percent of our total consolidated net sales for fiscal 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. International markets have, and will continue to be, a focus for us for revenue growth. We believe many opportunities exist in the international markets, and over time, we intend for international net sales to comprise a larger percentage of our total consolidated net sales. Several factors, including weakened international economic conditions or the impact of sovereign debt defaults by certain European countries, could adversely affect our international net sales. Additionally, the expansion of our existing international operations and entry into additional international markets require significant management attention and financial resources. Many of the countries in which we sell our products, or otherwise have an international presence are, to some degree, subject to political, economic, and/or social instability, including drug cartel-related violence, which may disrupt our production activities and maquiladora operations based in Juarez, Mexico. Our international operations expose us and our representatives, agents, and distributors to risks inherent in operating in foreign jurisdictions. These risks include: •increased costs of customizing products for foreign countries; •difficulties in managing and staffing international operations and increases in infrastructure costs including legal, tax, accounting, and information technology; •the imposition of additional U.S. and foreign governmental controls or regulations; new or enhanced trade restrictions and restrictions on the activities of foreign agents, representatives, and distributors; and the imposition of our increases in, costly and lengthy import and export licensing and other compliance requirements, customs duties and tariffs, import and export quotas and other trade restrictions, license obligations, and other non-tariff barriers to trade; •the imposition of U.S. and/or international sanctions against a country, company, person, or entity with whom we do business that would restrict or prohibit our continued business with the sanctioned country, company, person, or entity; •international pricing pressures; •laws and business practices favoring local companies; •adverse currency exchange rate fluctuations; • longer payment cycles and difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; •difficulties in enforcing or defending intellectual property rights; and •multiple, changing, and often inconsistent enforcement of laws, rules, and regulations, including rules relating to environmental, health, and safety matters. Our international operations may not produce desired levels of net sales or one or more of the factors listed above may harm our business and operating results. Any material decrease in our international sales or profitability could also adversely impact our operating results. In addition, a portion of our international net sales are financed by third parties. The termination of our agreements with these third parties, any material change to the terms of our agreements with these third parties or in the availability or terms of credit offered to our international customers by these third parties, or any delay in securing replacement credit sources, could adversely affect our sales and operating results. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could result in declines in our reported net sales and net earnings. Because the functional currency of our foreign operations is the applicable local currency, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk arising from transactions in the normal course of business, such as sales and loans to wholly owned subsidiaries as well as sales to third party customers, purchases from suppliers, and bank lines of credit with creditors denominated in foreign currencies. Our reported net sales and net earnings are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Because our products are manufactured or sourced primarily from the United States and Mexico, a stronger U.S. dollar and Mexican peso generally have a negative impact on our operating results, while a weaker dollar and peso generally have a positive effect. Our primary foreign currency exchange rate exposure is with the EU Euro, the Australian dollar, the Canadian dollar, the British pound, the Mexican peso, the Japanese yen, and the Chinese Yuan against the U.S. dollar. We also have exposure with the Romanian New Lei against the Euro and the U.S. dollar as a result of our new manufacturing facility in Romania. While we actively manage the exposure of our foreign currency market risk in the normal course of business by entering into various foreign exchange contracts, these instruments involve risks and may not effectively limit our underlying exposure from currency exchange rate fluctuations or minimize our net earnings and cash volatility associated with foreign currency exchange rate changes. Further, a number of financial institutions similar to those that serve as counterparties to our foreign exchange contracts have been adversely affected by the unprecedented distress in the worldwide credit markets. The failure of one or more counterparties to our foreign currency exchange rate contracts to fulfill their obligations to us could adversely affect our operating results. 13 Our business, properties, and products are subject to governmental regulation with which compliance may require us to incur expenses or modify our products or operations and non-compliance may expose us to penalties. Governmental regulation may also adversely affect the demand for some of our products and our operating results. Our business, properties, and products are subject to numerous federal, international, states, and other governmental laws, rules, and regulations relating to, among other things; climate change; emissions to air and discharges to water; product and associated packaging; import and export compliance, including country of origin certification requirements; worker and product user health and safety; energy efficiency; product life-cycles; and the generation, use, handling, labeling, collection, management, storage, transportation, treatment, and disposal of hazardous substances, wastes, and other regulated materials. Although we believe that we are in substantial compliance with currently applicable laws, rules, and regulations, we are unable to predict the ultimate impact of adopted or future laws, rules, and regulations on our business, properties, or products. Any of these laws, rules, or regulations may cause us to incur significant expenses to achieve or maintain compliance, require us to modify our products, adversely affect the price of or demand for some of our products, and ultimately affect the way we conduct our operations. Failure to comply with any of these laws, rules, or regulations could lead to fines and other penalties, including restrictions on the importation of our products into, and the sale of our products in, one or more jurisdictions until compliance is achieved. In addition, our competitors may adopt strategies with respect to regulatory compliance that differ significantly from our strategies. This may have the effect of changing customer preferences and our markets in ways that we did not anticipate, which may adversely affect market demand for our products and, ultimately, our net sales and financial results. The EPA has adopted increasingly stringent engine emission regulations, including Tier 4 emission requirements, that beginning in 2012, are applicable to diesel engines in a specified horsepower range that are used in some of our products. Although we have developed plans to achieve substantial compliance with Tier 4 requirements, these plans are subject to many variables including, among others, the inability of our suppliers to provide compliant engines on a timely basis or our inability to complete the necessary engineering and testing to meet our production schedule. If we are unable to successfully execute such plans, our ability to sell our products into the market may be inhibited, which could adversely affect our competitive position and financial results. Additionally, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur research, development, engineering, and other costs to design Tier 4 compliant products, which we currently expect will result in the implementation of price increases, some of which may be significant, on products subject to these regulations. The extent to which we are able to pass along to our customers these costs in the form of price increases may adversely affect market demand for our products and/or our profit margins, which may adversely affect our financial results. If our customers' buying patterns change to purchasing our products in advance of price increases on compliant products, we may experience abnormal fluctuation in sales and our financial results of any one period may not be representative of expected financial results in subsequent periods. Alternatively, if our competitors implement different strategies with respect to compliance with Tier 4 requirements that, either in the short term or over the long term, enable them to limit price increases, introduce product modifications that gain widespread market acceptance, or otherwise change customer preferences and buying patterns in ways that we do not currently anticipate, we may experience lower market demand for our products that may, ultimately, adversely affect our profit margins, net sales, and overall financial results. Because we own and lease real property, various environmental laws may impose liability on us for the costs of cleaning up and responding to hazardous substances that may have been released on our property, including releases unknown to us. These environmental laws and regulations also could require us to pay for environmental remediation and response costs at third-party locations where we disposed of or recycled hazardous substances. We are currently involved in the evaluation and clean-up of a limited number of properties we either currently or previously owned. Although we do not expect that these current matters will have a material adverse effect on our financial position or operating results, our future costs of complying with the various environmental requirements, as they now exist or may be altered in the future, could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. In addition, governmental restrictions placed on water usage as well as water availability may adversely affect demand for our irrigation products. Changes in laws and regulations, including changes in accounting standards, taxation changes, including tax rate changes, new tax laws, revised tax law interpretations, and reenactment or extension of the domestic research tax credit, also may adversely affect our operating results. If we are unable to continue to enhance existing products and develop and market new products that respond to customer needs and preferences and achieve market acceptance, we may experience a decrease in demand for our products, and our net sales, which have historically benefited from sales of new products, may be adversely affected. One of our growth strategies is to develop innovative, customer-valued products to generate revenue growth. In the past, our sales from new products, which we define as those introduced in the current and previous two fiscal years, have represented a significant component of our net sales and are expected to continue to 14 represent a significant component of our future net sales. We may not be able to compete as effectively with our competitors, and ultimately satisfy the needs and preferences of our customers, unless we can continue to enhance existing products and develop new innovative products in the markets in which we compete. Product development requires significant financial, technological, and other resources. Although we have implemented Lean manufacturing and other productivity improvement initiatives to provide investment funding for product enhancements and new products, we cannot be certain that we will be able to continue to do so in the future. Product improvements and new product introductions also require significant research, planning, design, development, engineering, and testing at the technological, product, and manufacturing process levels and we may not be able to timely develop and introduce product improvements or new products. Our competitors' new products may beat our products to market, be higher quality or more reliable, be more effective with more features and/or less expensive than our products, obtain better market acceptance, or render our products obsolete. Any new products that we develop may not receive market acceptance or otherwise generate any meaningful net sales or profits for us relative to our expectations based on, among other things, existing and anticipated investments in manufacturing capacity and commitments to fund advertising, marketing, promotional programs, and research and development. Our reliance upon patents, trademark laws, and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights may not be sufficient to protect our intellectual property from others who may sell similar products. Our products may infringe the proprietary rights of others. We hold patents relating to various aspects of our products and believe that proprietary technical know-how is important to our business. Proprietary rights relating to our products are protected from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that they are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are maintained in confidence as trade secrets. We cannot be certain that we will be issued any patents from any pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us or that the claims allowed under any issued patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In the absence of enforceable patent protection, we may be vulnerable to competitors who attempt to copy our products or gain access to our trade secrets and know-how. Others may initiate litigation to challenge the validity of our patents, or allege that we infringe their patents, or they may use their resources to design comparable products that do not infringe our patents. We may incur substantial costs if our competitors initiate litigation to challenge the validity of our patents, or allege that we infringe their patents, or if we initiate any proceedings to protect our proprietary rights. If the outcome of any such litigation is unfavorable to us, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected. We also cannot be certain that our products or technologies have not infringed or will not infringe the proprietary rights of others. Any such infringement could cause third parties, including our competitors, to bring claims against us, resulting in significant costs, possible damages and substantial uncertainty. We could also be forced to develop an alternative that could be costly and time-consuming, or acquire a license, which we might not be able to do on terms favorable to us, or at all. We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how that we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our employees and consultants. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. Even if these confidentiality agreements are not breached, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. We manufacture our products at and distribute our products from several locations in the United States and internationally. Any disruption at any of these facilities or in our inability to cost-effectively expand existing, open and manage new, and/or move production between manufacturing facilities could adversely affect our business and operating results. We currently manufacture most of our products at seven locations in the United States, two locations in Mexico, and one location in each of Australia, Italy, the United Kingdom, and Romania. We also have several locations that serve as distribution centers, warehouses, test facilities, and corporate offices. In addition, we have agreements to manufacture products at several third-party manufacturers. These facilities may be affected by natural or man-made disasters and other external events, including drug cartel-related violence that may disrupt our production activities and maquiladora operations based in Juarez, Mexico. In the event that one of our manufacturing facilities was affected by a disaster or other event, we could be forced to shift production to one of our other manufacturing facilities. Although we maintain insurance for damage to our property and disruption of our business from casualties, such insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses. Any disruption in our manufacturing capacity could have an adverse impact on our ability to produce sufficient inventory of our products or may require us to incur additional expenses in order to produce sufficient inventory, and therefore, may adversely affect our net sales and operating results. Any disruption or delay at our manufacturing facilities, including a work slowdown, strike, or similar action at any one of our three facilities operating under a collective bargaining agreement or the failure to renew or enter into new collective bargaining agreements, could impair our ability to meet the demands of our customers, and our customers may cancel orders or purchase products from our competitors, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. 15 Our operating results may also be adversely affected if we are unable to cost-effectively open and manage new manufacturing and distribution facilities, and move production between such facilities as needed from time to time. In late fiscal 2011, we completed the construction of a new manufacturing facility in Romania for micro-irrigation products. If the facility does not produce the anticipated manufacturing and operational efficiencies, or if the micro-irrigation products produced at this facility are not accepted into new geographic markets at expected levels, we may not recover the costs of the new facility and our operating results may be adversely affected. We intend to grow our business through acquisitions and alliances, stronger customer relations, and new joint ventures and partnerships, which could be risky and may harm our business. One of our growth strategies is to drive growth in our businesses and accelerate opportunities to expand our global presence through targeted acquisitions and alliances, stronger customer relations, and new joint ventures and partnerships that add value while considering our existing brands and product portfolio. The benefits of an acquisition or new alliance, joint venture, or partnership may take more time than expected to develop or integrate into our operations, and we cannot guarantee that previous or future acquisitions, alliances, joint ventures, or partnerships will in fact produce any benefits. In addition, acquisitions, alliances, joint ventures, and partnerships may involve a number of risks, including: •diversion of management's attention; •difficulties in integrating and assimilating the operations and products of an acquired business or in realizing projected efficiencies, cost savings, and synergies; •inability to successfully integrate or develop a distribution channel for acquired product lines; •potential loss of key employees or customers of the acquired businesses or adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; •adverse impact on overall profitability if acquired businesses do not achieve the financial results projected in our valuation models; •reallocation of amounts of capital from other operating initiatives and/or an increase in our leverage and debt service requirements to pay the acquisition purchase prices, which could in turn restrict our ability to access additional capital when needed or to pursue other important elements of our business strategy; •inaccurate assessment of additional post-acquisition investments, undisclosed, contingent or other liabilities or problems, unanticipated costs associated with an acquisition, and an inability to recover or manage such liabilities and costs; and •incorrect estimates made in the accounting for acquisitions, incurrence of non-recurring charges, and write-off of significant amounts of goodwill or other assets that could adversely affect our operating results. Our ability to grow through acquisitions will depend, in part, on the availability of suitable candidates at acceptable prices, terms, and conditions, our ability to compete effectively for these acquisition candidates, and the availability of capital and personnel to complete such acquisitions and run the acquired business effectively. These risks could be heightened if we complete a large acquisition or multiple acquisitions within a relatively short period of time. In addition, some acquisitions may require the consent of the lenders under our credit agreements. We cannot predict whether such approvals would be forthcoming or the terms on which the lenders would approve such acquisitions. Any potential acquisition could impair our operating results, and any large acquisition could, among other things, impair our financial condition. We rely on our management information systems for inventory management, distribution, and other key functions. If our information systems fail to adequately perform these functions, or if we experience an interruption in their operation, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our management information systems. We rely on our management information systems to, among other things, effectively manage our accounting and financial functions, including maintaining our internal controls; to manage our manufacturing and supply chain processes; and to maintain our research and development data. The failure of our management information systems to perform properly could disrupt our business and product development, which may result in decreased sales, increased overhead costs, excess or obsolete inventory, and product shortages, causing our business and operating results to suffer. Although we take steps to secure our management information systems, including our computer systems, intranet and internet sites, email and other telecommunications and data networks, the security measures we have implemented may not be effective and our systems may be vulnerable to theft, loss, damage and interruption from a number of potential sources and events, including unauthorized access or security breaches, natural or man-made disasters, cyber attacks, computer viruses, power loss, or other disruptive events. Our reputation, brand, and financial condition could be adversely affected if, as a result of a significant cyber event or otherwise, our operations are disrupted or shutdown; our confidential, proprietary information is stolen or disclosed; we incur costs or are required to pay fines in connection with stolen customer, employee, or other confidential information; we must dedicate significant resources to system repairs or increase cyber security protection; or we otherwise incur significant litigation or other costs. 16 We face intense competition in all of our product lines with numerous manufacturers, including some that have larger operations and financial resources than us. We may not be able to compete effectively against competitors' actions, which could harm our business and operating results. Our products are sold in highly competitive markets throughout the world. Principal competitive factors in our markets include product innovation, quality and reliability, pricing, product support and customer service, warranty, brand awareness, reputation, distribution, product placement and shelf space, and financing options. We compete in all of our product lines with numerous manufacturers, some that have substantially larger operations and financial resources than us. As a result, they may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer preferences, or devote greater resources to the development, promotion, and sale of their products than we can. In addition, competition could increase if new companies enter the market or if existing competitors expand their product lines or intensify efforts within existing product lines. Our current products, products under development, and our ability to develop new and improved products may be insufficient to enable us to compete effectively with our competitors. Internationally, our residential segment products typically face more competition where foreign competitors design, manufacture, and market products in their respective countries. We experience this competition primarily in Europe. In addition, fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar may affect the price of our products in foreign markets, thereby impacting their competitiveness. We may not be able to compete effectively against competitors' actions, which may include the movement by competitors with manufacturing operations to low cost countries for significant cost and price reductions, and could harm our business and operating results. We are subject to product liability claims, product quality issues, and other litigation from time to time that could adversely affect our operating results or financial condition. The manufacture, sale, and usage of our products expose us to significant risks associated with product liability claims. If a product liability claim or series of claims is brought against us for uninsured liabilities or in excess of our insurance coverage, and it is ultimately determined that we are liable, our business could suffer. While we believe that we appropriately instruct our customers on the proper usage of our products, we cannot ensure that they will implement our instructions accurately or completely. If our products are defective or used incorrectly by our customers, injury may result and this could give rise to product liability claims against us or adversely affect our brand image or reputation. Any losses that we may suffer from any liability claims, and the effect that any product liability litigation may have upon the reputation and marketability of our products, may have a negative impact on our business and operating results. Some of our products or product improvements were developed relatively recently and defects or risks that we have not yet identified may give rise to product liability claims. Additionally, we could experience a material design or manufacturing failure in our products, a quality system failure, other safety issues, or heightened regulatory scrutiny that could warrant a recall of some of our products. A recall of some of our products could also result in increased product liability claims. Unforeseen product quality problems in the development and production of new and existing products could also result in loss of market share, reduced sales, rework costs, and higher warranty expense. We are also subject to other litigation from time to time that could adversely affect our operating results or financial condition. If we are unable to retain our key employees, and attract and retain other qualified personnel, we may not be able to meet strategic objectives and our business could suffer. Our ability to meet our strategic objectives and otherwise grow our business will depend to a significant extent on the continued contributions of our leadership team. Our future success will also depend in large part on our ability to identify, attract, and retain other highly qualified managerial, technical, sales and marketing, and customer service personnel. Competition for these individuals is intense, and we may not succeed in identifying, attracting, or retaining qualified personnel. The loss or interruption of services of any of our key personnel, the inability to identify, attract, or retain qualified personnel in the future, delays in hiring qualified personnel, or any employee work slowdowns, strikes, or similar actions could make it difficult for us to conduct and manage our business and meet key objectives, which could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. As a result of our financing joint venture with TCFIF, we are dependent upon the joint venture to provide competitive inventory financing programs, including floor plan and open account receivable financing, to certain distributors and dealers of our products. Any material change in the availability or terms of credit offered to our customers by the joint venture, any termination or disruption of our joint venture relationship or any delay in securing replacement credit sources could adversely affect our net sales and operating results. In 2009, we established a financing joint venture with TCFIF for the purpose of providing reliable, competitive financing to our distributors and dealers in the U.S. and to select distributors of our 17 products in Canada to support their businesses and increase our net sales, as well as to free up our working capital for our other strategic purposes. As a result, we are dependent upon the joint venture for our inventory financing programs, including floor plan and open account receivable financing. Additionally, we are dependent upon TCFCFC to provide inventory financing to dealers of our products in Canada. The availability of financing from our joint venture or otherwise will be affected by many factors, including, among others, the overall credit markets, the credit worthiness of our dealers and distributors, and regulations that may affect TCFIF, as the majority owner of the joint venture and a subsidiary of TCF National Bank, a national banking association. Any material change in the availability or terms of credit offered to our customers by the joint venture, any termination or disruption of our joint venture relationship or any delay in securing replacement credit sources could adversely affect our sales and operating results. The terms of our credit arrangements and the indentures governing our senior notes and debentures could limit our ability to conduct our business, take advantage of business opportunities and respond to changing business, market, and economic conditions. Additionally, we are subject to counterparty risk in our credit arrangements. Our credit arrangements and the indentures governing our 6.625% senior notes and 7.800% debentures include a number of financial and operating restrictions. For example, our credit arrangements contain financial covenants that, among other things, require us to maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio and a maximum debt to earnings ratios. Our credit arrangements and/or indentures also contain provisions that restrict our ability, subject to specified exceptions, to, among other things: •limit loans and investments, including acquisitions and transactions with affiliates; •create liens or other encumbrances on our assets; •disposition of assets; •engage in mergers or consolidations; and •pay dividends that are significantly higher than those currently being paid, make other distributions to our shareholders or redeem shares of our common stock. These provisions may limit our ability to conduct our business, take advantage of business opportunities, and respond to changing business, market, and economic conditions. In addition, they may place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to other companies that may be subject to fewer, if any, restrictions or may otherwise adversely affect our business. Transactions that we may view as important opportunities, such as significant acquisitions, may be subject to the consent of the lenders under our credit arrangements, which consent may be withheld or granted subject to conditions specified at the time that may affect the attractiveness or viability of the transaction. The overall availability of credit continues to be limited. Although in fiscal 2011 we negotiated a new $150 million revolving credit facility that does not expire until July 2015, market deterioration or other factors could jeopardize the counterparty obligations of one or more of the banks participating in our facility, which could have an adverse effect on our business if we are not able to replace such credit facility or find other sources of liquidity on acceptable terms. If we are unable to comply with the terms of our credit arrangements and indentures, especially the financial covenants, our credit arrangements could be terminated and our senior notes and debentures could become due and payable. We cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with all of the terms of our credit arrangements and indentures, especially the financial covenants. Our ability to comply with such terms depends on the success of our business and our operating results. Various risks, uncertainties, and events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with the terms of our credit arrangements and/or indentures. If we were out of compliance with any covenant required by our credit arrangements following any applicable cure periods, the banks could terminate their commitments unless we could negotiate a covenant waiver. The banks could condition such waiver on amendments to the terms of our credit arrangements that may be unfavorable to us. In addition, our 6.625% senior notes and 7.800% debentures could become due and payable if we were unable to obtain a covenant waiver or refinance our medium-term debt under our credit arrangements. If our credit rating falls below investment grade and/or our average debt to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, and amortization ("EBITDA") ratio rises above 2.00, the interest rate we currently pay on outstanding debt under our credit arrangements would increase, which could adversely affect our operating results. Legislative enactments could impact the competitive landscape within our markets and affect demand for our products. Various legislative proposals, if enacted, could put us in a competitively advantaged or disadvantaged position and affect customer demand for our products relative to the product offerings of our competitors. For example, any fiscal-stimulus or other legislative enactment that inordinately impacts the lawn and garden, outdoor power equipment, or irrigation industries generally by promoting the purchase, such as through customer rebate or other incentive programs, of certain types of mowing or irrigation equipment or 18 other products that we sell, could impact us positively or negatively, depending on whether we manufacture products that meet the specified legislative criteria, including in areas such as fuel efficiency, alternative energy or water usage, or if, as a result of such legislation, customers perceive our product offerings to be relatively more or less attractive than our competitors' product offerings. We cannot currently predict whether any such legislation will be enacted, what any such legislation's specific terms and conditions would encompass, how any such legislation would impact the competitive landscape within our markets, or how, if at all, any such legislation might ultimately affect customer demand for our products or our operating results. Our business is subject to a number of other miscellaneous risks that may adversely affect our operating results, financial condition, or business. Other miscellaneous risks that could affect our business include: •our ability to achieve the revenue growth, operating earnings, and employee engagement goals of our new, multi-year employee initiative called "Destination 2014"; •natural or man-made disasters or global pandemics, which may result in shortages of raw materials and components, higher fuel and commodity costs, and increase in insurance premiums; •financial viability of distributors and dealers, changes in distributor ownership, changes in channel distribution of our products, relationships with our distribution channel partners, our success in partnering with new dealers, and our customers' ability to pay amounts owed to us; •a decline in retail sales or financial difficulties of our distributors or dealers, which could cause us to repurchase financed product; and •continued threat of terrorist acts and war, which may result in heightened security and higher costs for import and export shipments of components or finished goods, reduced leisure travel, and contraction of the U.S. and worldwide economies. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 19 