Item 1A. Risk Factors Current economic conditions may adversely affect our business and we do not expect these conditions to improve in the near future. Our business is materially affected by conditions in the global economy. The capital and credit markets worldwide have experienced extreme volatility and disruption. Though conditions appear to be improving, we cannot predict how long this economic downturn may last. Because of current economic conditions, capital expenditures, such as purchases of analytical instrumentation, continue to be delayed in many cases. We cannot predict when consumer confidence in the economy may increase and when customers may resume purchases of capital equipment at normal levels. If economic conditions worsen, we may experience a further decrease in demand for our goods and services. In addition, some of our customers may have difficulty obtaining access to sufficient credit, which could impair their ability to make timely payments to us. Some of our suppliers may also face issues gaining access to sufficient credit to maintain their business which could reduce the availability of some components we incorporate in our products. To the extent such suppliers are single source suppliers, our ability to continue to manufacture and sell our products could be affected. Technological change could cause our products to become non-competitive or obsolete. The market for our products and services is characterized by rapid and significant technological change and quickly evolving industry standards. New product introductions responsive to these factors require significant planning, design, development, and testing. We can provide no assurance that our products will remain competitive in this rapidly changing environment. In addition, industry acceptance of new technologies we seek to introduce may be slow to develop. We could incur substantial costs in protecting and defending our intellectual property and loss of patent rights could have a material adverse effect on our business. We hold patents relating to various aspects of our products and believe that proprietary technical know-how is critical to many of our products. Proprietary rights relating to our products are protected from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that they are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are maintained in confidence as trade secrets. There can be no assurance that patents will issue from any pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us or that the claims allowed under any issued patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In the absence of patent protection, we may be vulnerable to competitors who attempt to copy our products or gain access to our trade secrets and technical know-how. Our competitors could also initiate litigation to challenge the validity of our patents or may use their resources to design comparable products that do not infringe upon our patents. We could incur substantial costs in defending OI in suits brought against us or in suits in which we may assert our patent rights against others. If the outcome of any such litigation is unfavorable to us, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we rely on trade secrets and proprietary technical know-how that we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our collaborators, employees, and consultants. We can provide no assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that we would have adequate remedies for any breach, or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. Our extensive R&D efforts may not result in products that are successful in the marketplace. To maintain our market share for existing products and to gain market share in new markets such as homeland security, we must invest heavily each year in R&D spending. This R&D spending often involves new technologies or updates to existing technology. We can provide no assurance that our R&D efforts to develop new technology or efforts to acquire new technology from third parties will be successful or that new products we may develop through such efforts will be successful in the marketplace. Consolidation in the environmental instrument market and changes in environmental regulations could adversely affect our business. Environmental analysis, which represents a significant market for our products, has exhibited a trend of contraction and consolidation in recent years. Continuation of this trend could have an adverse impact on our business. In addition, most air, water and soil analyses are conducted to comply with federal, state, local, and foreign environmental regulations. These regulations are frequently specific as to the type of technology required for a particular analysis and the level of detection required for that analysis. We develop, configure, and market our products to meet customer needs created by existing and expected environmental regulations. These regulations may be amended or eliminated in response to new scientific evidence or political or economic considerations. Any significant change in environmental regulations could result in a reduction in demand for our products. 6 Our results of operations are dependent on our relationship with Agilent. We currently operate under a Value Added Reseller (or “VAR”) agreement with Agilent, which was renewed at the end of 2009. Our VAR agreement provides for certain sales and marketing cooperation between us and Agilent. We can provide no assurance that Agilent will renew our VAR agreement, which is renewable annually in December, or that we will sustain current sales levels or increase sales levels in the future under the Agilent VAR agreement. A cessation of our relationship with Agilent would place at risk a substantial part of our GC systems sales and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Economic, political and other risks associated with international sales could adversely affect our results of operations. Sales outside the U.S. accounted for approximately 34% of our revenues in 2009. We expect international sales to account for a significant portion of our future revenues. Sales to international customers are subject to a number of risks including interruption to transportation flows for delivery of finished goods to customers; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in political or economic conditions in a specific country or region; trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; negative consequences from changes in tax laws; differing protection of intellectual property; and unexpected changes in regulatory requirements. Unfavorable developments in these areas could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial position. Parts shortages or excess parts inventory could adversely affect our earnings. We rely on various component parts to meet production demands. Should we encounter a shortage due to loss of a single source supplier or group of suppliers, for example, we may suffer a loss in sales, which could detrimentally impact our earnings. In certain cases, we enter into non-cancelable purchase commitments with vendors to secure components at the best available price. Should market demand for our products decline unexpectedly, we may develop excess parts inventory which could result in inventory write-downs that would negatively impact our results of operations and financial position. We are a small organization and we face many risks inherent in operating a microcap public company. Because we are a relatively small organization, we have limited resources both in terms of our physical facilities and human resources. Should we suffer a catastrophic loss in either of our primary facilities, we could face a significant disruption in our business. To be successful, we rely on the performance of our employees including key executives such as our CEO/CFO who serves in a dual capacity, sales and marketing professionals, technical staff, managers, and production personnel. In addition, we have a small accounting and finance group charged with the responsibility of public reporting issues and the increasingly complex requirements of generally accepted accounting principles in the United States in addition to normal day to day accounting operations. Our ability to meet customer demand could be negatively impacted if we are unable to attract, hire, train, retain, and motivate qualified employees. As a small company, the cost of compliance with governmental regulations, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or SOX, continues to escalate and represents a significant expenditure of funds. We are considered a microcap company and have a relatively small number of shares of common stock outstanding, with insiders and holders of 5% or more shares owning a significant portion of our stock. Because of this concentration of ownership, our common stock is thinly traded and experiences some periods with no transactions. This lack of public float adversely affects the liquidity of an investment in our shares. We are a small company with a strong financial position and innovative new technologies. Our small size could make us the target of a takeover attempt by a larger company, the defense of which could cause us to incur significant legal and advisory fees and could serve as a distraction to our regular business. Investments we pursue may be subject to a high risk of loss. We plan to evaluate alternative investment options for excess funds to improve our returns. These investments may include less than investment grade bonds or other securities that we feel are likely to increase in value and/or provide a higher interest return. Any such investments are likely to subject us to a higher risk of loss than our current insured or government backed investments. 7 Potential acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures and divestitures could result in financial results that do not meet expectations. We plan to consider a growth strategy that could potentially include strategic alliances, joint ventures, or acquisitions. Certain business acquisitions and strategic alliances in past years have not produced profitability meeting our expectations. Businesses we may seek to acquire in the future may also fall short of our profit objectives. To finance potential acquisitions, we may need to raise additional funds either through public or private financing. We may have difficulty in obtaining debt financing on terms we find attractive, while equity financing can result in significant dilution to our shareholders. Should we complete such a transaction, our financial results may differ from the investment community’s expectations. We could potentially experience difficulty developing, manufacturing, and marketing the products of a newly acquired company in a way that enhances performance of the combined businesses or product lines to realize the value from expected synergies. Depending on the size and complexity of an acquisition, our successful integration of the entity depends on a variety of factors including: retention of key employees; management of facilities and employees in separate geographic areas; retention of key customers; and the integration or coordination of different research and development, product manufacturing, sales programs, and facilities. All of these efforts require varying levels of management resources that may divert our attention from other business operations. If we do not realize the expected benefits or synergies of such transactions, our consolidated financial position, results of operations and stock price could be negatively impacted. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 