ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are significant factors known to us that could materially adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition, or future financial performance. Economic conditions and outlook in the United States and around the world could continue to adversely affect our net sales and earnings. Demand for our products depends upon economic conditions and outlook, which include but are not limited to recessionary conditions in the U.S. and other regions around the world and worldwide slow or negative economic growth rates; slow down or reductions in levels of golf course development, renovation, and improvement; slow down or reductions in levels of home ownership, construction, and home sales; consumer spending levels; credit availability and credit terms for our distributors, dealers, and end-user customers; short-term, mortgage, and other interest rates; unemployment rates; interest rates; inflation; consumer confidence; and general economic and political conditions and expectations in the U.S. and the foreign economies in which we conduct business. Slow or negative economic growth rates; inflationary pressures; higher commodity costs and fuel prices; slow downs or reductions in golf course development, renovation, and improvement; slow downs or reductions in home construction and sales; home foreclosures; reduced credit availability or unfavorable credit terms for our distributors, dealers, and end-user customers; higher short-term, mortgage, and other interest rates; unemployment rates; and recessionary economic conditions and outlook could cause our distributors, dealers, and end-user customers to reduce spending, which may cause them to delay or forego purchases of our products and could have an adverse effect on our net sales and earnings. Increases in the cost, or disruption in the availability, of raw materials and components that we purchase and increases in our other costs of doing business, such as transportation costs, may adversely affect our profit margins and business. We purchase raw materials such as steel, aluminum, fuel, petroleum-based resins, linerboard, and other commodities, and components, such as engines, transmissions, transaxles, hydraulics, and electric motors, for use in our products. Increases in the cost of such raw materials and components may adversely affect our profit margins if we are unable to pass along to our customers these cost increases in the form of price increases or otherwise reduce our cost of goods sold. Historically, we have used internal cost reduction efforts, proactive vendor negotiations, alternate sourcing options, substitute materials, and moderate price increases on some of our products to offset a portion of increased raw material, component, and other costs. However, we may not be able to fully offset any such increased costs in the future. Further, if our price increases are not accepted by our customers and the market, our net sales, earnings, and market share could be adversely affected. Although most of the raw materials and components used in our products are commercially available from a number of sources and in adequate supply, any disruption in the availability of such raw materials and components, our inability to timely or otherwise obtain substitutes for such items, or any deterioration in our relationships with or the financial viability of our suppliers could adversely affect our business. Increases in our other costs of doing business may also adversely affect our profit margins and business. For example, an increase in fuel costs may result in an increase in our transportation costs, which also could adversely affect our operating results and business. Weather conditions may reduce demand for some of our products and adversely affect our net sales. From time to time, weather conditions in a particular geographic region may adversely affect sales of some of our products and field inventory levels. For example, in the past, drought conditions have had an adverse effect on sales of certain mowing equipment products, unusually rainy weather or severe drought conditions that result in watering bans have had an adverse effect on sales of our irrigation products, and lower snow fall accumulations in key markets have had an adverse effect on sales of our snow thrower products. To the extent that such unfavorable weather conditions are exacerbated by global climate change or otherwise, our sales may be affected to a greater degree than we have previously experienced. Our professional segment net sales are dependent upon the level of residential and commercial construction, the level of homeowners' outsourcing lawn care, the amount of investment in golf course renovations and improvements, new golf course development, golf course closures, the amount of government spending, and other factors. Our professional segment products are sold by distributors or dealers, or directly to government customers, rental companies, and professional users engaged in maintaining and creating landscapes, such as golf courses, sports fields, municipal properties, and residential and commercial landscapes. Accordingly, our professional segment net sales are impacted by the level of residential and commercial construction, the level of homeowners' outsourcing lawn care, the amount of investment in golf course renovations and improvements, new golf course construction, availability of credit to finance product purchases, and the amount of 11 government spending. Among other things, any one or a combination of the following factors could have an adverse effect on our professional segment net sales: •reduced tax revenue, increased governmental expenses in other areas, tighter government budgets and government deficits, generally resulting in reduced government spending for grounds maintenance equipment; •reduced consumer and business spending, causing homeowners not to outsource lawn care and causing landscape contractor professionals to forego or postpone purchases of our products; •reduced levels of commercial and residential construction, resulting in a decrease in demand for our products; and •reduced levels of new golf course construction and investment in golf course renovations and improvements, reduced number of golf rounds played at public and private golf courses resulting in reduced revenue for such golf courses, decreased membership at private golf courses resulting in reduced revenue and, in certain cases, financial difficulties for such golf courses, and golf course closures, any of which could result in a decrease in spending and demand for our products. Our residential segment net sales are dependant upon consumer spending levels, the amount of product placement at retailers, changing buying patterns of customers, and The Home Depot, Inc. as a major customer. The elimination or reduction of shelf space assigned to our residential products by retailers could adversely affect our residential segment net sales. Our residential segment net sales are also dependent upon changing buying patterns of customers. For example, there has been a trend away from purchases at dealer outlets and hardware retailers to home centers and mass retailers, as well as a trend for broader and lower price points at home centers and mass retailers. This trend has resulted in a demand for residential products purchased at retailers, such as The Home Depot, which accounted for approximately 10 to 14 percent of our total consolidated net sales in each of fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007. We believe that our diverse distribution channels and customer base should reduce the long-term impact on us if we were to lose The Home Depot or any other substantial customer. However, the loss of any substantial customer, a significant reduction in sales to The Home Depot or other customers, or our inability to respond to future changes in buying patterns of customers and new distribution channels could have a material impact on our business and operating results. Changing buying patterns of customers also could result in reduced sales of one or more of our residential segment products, resulting in increased inventory levels. Although our residential lawn and garden products are generally manufactured throughout the year, our residential snow removal equipment products are generally manufactured in the summer and fall months but may be extended into the winter months depending upon demand. Our production levels and inventory management goals are based on estimates of retail demand for our products, taking into account production capacity, timing of shipments, and field inventory levels. If we overestimate or underestimate demand during a given season, we may not maintain the appropriate inventory levels, which could negatively impact our net sales, working capital, or hinder our ability to meet customer demand. If we are unable to continue to enhance existing products and develop and market new products that respond to customer needs and preferences and achieve market acceptance, we may experience a decrease in demand for our products, and our business could suffer. One of our growth strategies is to develop innovative, customer-valued products to generate revenue growth. Our sales from new products in the past have represented a significant component of our net sales and are expected to continue to represent a significant component of our future net sales. We may not be able to compete as effectively with our competitors, and ultimately satisfy the needs and preferences of our customers, unless we can continue to enhance existing products and develop new innovative products in the markets in which we compete. Product development requires significant financial, technological, and other resources. Although in the past we have implemented Lean manufacturing and other productivity improvement initiatives to provide investment funding for product enhancements and new products, we cannot be certain that we will be able to continue to do so in the future. Product improvements and new product introductions also require significant planning, design, development, and testing at the technological, product, and manufacturing process levels and we may not be able to timely develop product improvements or new products. Our competitors' new products may beat our products to market, be more effective with more features and/or less expensive than our products, obtain better market acceptance, or render our products obsolete. Any new products that we develop may not receive market acceptance or otherwise generate any meaningful net sales or profits for us relative to our expectations based on, among other things, existing and anticipated investments in manufacturing capacity and commitments to fund advertising, marketing, promotional programs, and research and development. 12 We face intense competition in all of our product lines with numerous manufacturers, including from some that have greater operations and financial resources than us. We may not be able to compete effectively against competitors' actions, which could harm our business and operating results. Our products are sold in highly competitive markets throughout the world. Principal competitive factors in our markets include product innovation, quality and reliability, product support and customer service, pricing, warranty, brand awareness, reputation, distribution, shelf space, and financing options. We compete in all of our product lines with numerous manufacturers, some which have substantially greater operations and financial resources than us. As a result, they may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer preferences, or to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, and sale of their products than we can. In addition, competition could increase if new companies enter the market or if existing competitors expand their product lines or intensify efforts within existing product lines. Our current products, products under development, and our ability to develop new and improved products may be insufficient to enable us to compete effectively with our competitors. Internationally, our residential segment products typically face more competition where foreign competitors manufacture and market products in their respective countries. We experience this competition primarily in Europe. In addition, fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar may affect the price of our products in foreign markets, thereby impacting their competitiveness. Pricing volatility has also become an increasingly important competitive factor for many of our products. We may not be able to compete effectively against competitors' actions, which may include the movement by competitors of significant manufacturing to low cost countries for significant cost and price reductions, and could harm our business and operating results. A significant percentage of our consolidated net sales are generated outside of the United States, and we intend to continue to expand our international operations. Our international operations require significant management attention and financial resources, expose us to difficulties presented by international economic, political, legal, accounting, and business factors, and may not be successful or produce desired levels of net sales. We manufacture our products in the United States, Mexico, Australia, the United Kingdom, and Italy for sale throughout the world and maintain sales offices in the United States, Belgium, the United Kingdom, France, Australia, Singapore, Japan, China, Italy, and Korea. Our net sales outside the United States were 32.0 percent, 32.4 percent, and 29.0 percent of our total consolidated net sales for fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. International markets have, and will continue to be, a focus for revenue growth. We believe many opportunities exist in the international markets, and over time we intend for international net sales to comprise a larger percentage of our total consolidated net sales. Several factors, including weakened international economic conditions, could adversely affect such growth. Additionally, the expansion of our existing international operations and entry into additional international markets require significant management attention and financial resources. Many of the countries in which we sell our products, or otherwise have an international presence are, to some degree, subject to political, economic, and/or social instability, including cartel-related violence. Our international operations expose us and our representatives, agents, and distributors to risks inherent in operating in foreign jurisdictions. These risks include: •increased costs of customizing products for foreign countries; •difficulties in managing and staffing international operations and increases in infrastructure costs including legal, tax, accounting, and information technology; •the imposition of additional U.S. and foreign governmental controls or regulations; new or enhanced trade restrictions and restrictions on the activities of foreign agents, representatives, and distributors; and the imposition of increases in costly and lengthy import and export licensing and other compliance requirements, customs duties and tariffs, license obligations, and other non-tariff barriers to trade; •the imposition of U.S. and/or international sanctions against a country, company, person, or entity with whom we do business that would restrict or prohibit our continued business with the sanctioned country, company, person, or entity; •international pricing pressures; •laws and business practices favoring local companies; •adverse currency exchange rate fluctuations; •longer payment cycles and difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; •difficulties in enforcing or defending intellectual property rights; and •multiple, changing, and often inconsistent enforcement of laws, rules, and regulations, including rules relating to environmental, health, and safety matters. Our international operations may not produce desired levels of net sales or one or more of the factors listed above may harm our business and operating results. Any material decrease in our international sales or profitability could also adversely impact our operating results. 13 Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could result in declines in our reported net sales and net earnings. Because the functional currency of our foreign operations is the applicable local currency, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk arising from transactions in the normal course of business, such as sales and loans to wholly owned subsidiaries as well as sales to third party customers, purchases from suppliers, and bank lines of credit with creditors denominated in foreign currencies. Our reported net sales and net earnings are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Because our products are manufactured or sourced primarily from the United States and Mexico, a stronger U.S. dollar and Mexican peso generally has a negative impact on results from operations, while a weaker dollar and peso generally has a positive effect. Our primary foreign currency exchange rate exposure is with the EU Euro, the Australian dollar, the Canadian dollar, the British pound, the Mexican peso, and the Japanese yen against the U.S. dollar. While we actively manage the exposure of our foreign currency market risk in the normal course of business by entering into various foreign exchange contracts, these instruments may not effectively limit our underlying exposure from currency exchange rate fluctuations or minimize our net earnings and cash volatility associated with foreign currency exchange rate changes. Further, a number of financial institutions similar to those that serve as counterparties to our foreign exchange contracts have been adversely affected by the unprecedented distress in the worldwide credit markets. The failure of one or more counterparties to our foreign currency exchange rate contracts to fulfill their obligations to us could adversely affect our operating results. We manufacture our products at and distribute our products from several locations in the United States and internationally. Any disruption at any of these facilities or our inability to cost-effectively expand existing and/or move production between manufacturing facilities could adversely affect our business and operating results. We manufacture most of our products at seven locations in the United States, two locations in Mexico, and one location in each of Australia, Italy, and the United Kingdom. We also have several locations that serve as distribution centers, warehouses, test facilities, and corporate offices. In addition, we have agreements to manufacture products at several third-party manufacturers. These facilities may be affected by natural or man-made disasters. In the event that one of our manufacturing facilities was affected by a disaster, we could be forced to shift production to one of our other manufacturing facilities. Although we purchase insurance for damage to our property and disruption of our business from casualties, such insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses. Any disruption in our manufacturing capacity could have an adverse impact on our ability to produce sufficient inventory of our products or may require us to incur additional expenses in order to produce sufficient inventory, and therefore, may adversely affect our net sales and operating results. Any disruption or delay at our manufacturing facilities, including a work slowdown, strike, or similar action at any one of our three facilities operating under a collective bargaining agreement or the failure to renew or enter into new collective bargaining agreements, including two such agreements that expire in fiscal 2010, could impair our ability to meet the demands of our customers, and our customers may cancel orders or purchase products from our competitors, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our operating results may also be adversely affected if we are unable to cost-effectively expand existing and move production between manufacturing facilities as needed from time to time. We intend to grow our business through additional acquisitions and alliances, stronger customer relations, and new joint ventures and partnerships, which are risky and could harm our business. One of our growth strategies is to drive growth in our businesses and accelerate opportunities to expand our global presence through targeted acquisitions, alliances, stronger customer relations, and new joint ventures and partnerships that add value while considering our existing brands and product portfolio. The benefits of an acquisition or new joint venture or partnership may take more time than expected to develop or integrate into our operations, and we cannot guarantee that previous or future acquisitions, alliances, joint ventures, or partnerships will in fact produce any benefits. In addition, acquisitions, alliances, joint ventures, and partnerships involve a number of risks, including: •diversion of management's attention; •difficulties in integrating and assimilating the operations and products of an acquired business or in realizing projected efficiencies, cost savings, and synergies; •potential loss of key employees or customers of the acquired businesses or adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; •adverse impact on overall profitability if acquired businesses do not achieve the financial results projected in our valuation models; •reallocation of amounts of capital from other operating initiatives and/or an increase in our leverage and debt service requirements to pay the acquisition purchase prices, which could in turn restrict our ability to access additional capital when needed or to pursue other important elements of our business strategy; •inaccurate assessment of undisclosed, contingent or other liabilities or problems, unanticipated costs associated with an acquisition, and an inability to recover or manage such liabilities and costs; and 14 •incorrect estimates made in the accounting for acquisitions, incurrence of non-recurring charges, and write-off of significant amounts of goodwill or other assets that could adversely affect our operating results. Our ability to grow through acquisitions will depend, in part, on the availability of suitable acquisition candidates at acceptable prices, terms, and conditions, our ability to compete effectively for these acquisition candidates, and the availability of capital and personnel to complete such acquisitions and run the acquired business effectively. These risks could be heightened if we complete a large acquisition or multiple acquisitions within a relatively short period of time. In addition, some acquisitions may require the consent of the lenders under our credit agreements. We cannot predict whether such approvals would be forthcoming or the terms on which the lenders would approve such acquisitions. Any potential acquisition could impair our operating results, and any large acquisition could impair our financial condition, among other things. As a result of our recently established financing joint venture, we are dependent upon the joint venture to provide competitive inventory financing programs, including floor plan and open account receivable financing, to certain distributors and dealers of our products. Any difficulty in transitioning our inventory financing programs to the joint venture, any material change in the availability or terms of credit offered to our customers by the joint venture, any termination or disruption of our joint venture relationship or any delay in securing replacement credit sources could adversely affect our net sales and operating results. Historically, most of our dealers and distributors generally financed their inventories with either TCC, our wholly owned finance subsidiary, or third party financing companies. As a result of our recent joint venture with TCFIF, we are dependent upon the joint venture for our inventory financing programs, including floor plan and open account receivable financing, for distributors and dealers of our products in the U.S. and to select distributors of our products in Canada. The purpose of the joint venture is to provide access to reliable, competitive financing to our distributors and dealers in the U.S. and to select distributors of our products in Canada to support their businesses and increase our net sales, as well as to free up our working capital for other strategic purposes. Additionally, in connection with the joint venture, we are dependent upon TCFCFC to provide inventory financing to dealers of our products in Canada. The availability of financing from our joint venture or otherwise will be affected by many factors, including, among others, the overall credit markets, the credit worthiness of our dealers and distributors, and regulations that may affect TCFIF, as the majority owner of the joint venture and a subsidiary of TCF National Bank, a national banking association. Any difficulty in the continued transitioning of our inventory financing programs to the joint venture, whether as a result of delays in the availability of enhancements to the wholesale management software system, documentation of customers, or other transition items, could adversely affect our sales and operating results. Further, any material change in the availability or terms of credit offered to our customers by the joint venture, any termination or disruption of our joint venture relationship or any delay in securing replacement credit sources could adversely affect our sales and operating results. Similarly, significant financed product repurchase requirements could have a material impact on our future operating results. We rely on our management information systems for inventory management, distribution, and other functions. If our information systems fail to adequately perform these functions or if we experience an interruption in their operation, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our management information systems. We rely on our management information systems to effectively manage accounting and financial functions, manage manufacturing and supply chain processes, and maintain our research and development data. The failure of our management information systems to perform properly could disrupt our business and product development and could result in decreased sales, increased overhead costs, excess inventory, and product shortages, causing our business and operating results to suffer. In addition, our management information systems, including our computer systems, Internet web sites, telecommunications, and data networks, are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural or man-made disasters, terrorist attacks and attacks by computer viruses or hackers, or power loss. Any such interruption could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our reliance upon patents, trademark laws, and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights may not be sufficient to protect our intellectual property from others who may sell similar products. Our products may infringe the proprietary rights of others. We hold patents relating to various aspects of our products and believe that proprietary technical know-how is important to our business. Proprietary rights relating to our products are protected from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that they are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are maintained in confidence as trade secrets. We cannot be certain that we will be issued any patents from any pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us or that the claims allowed under any issued patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. 15 In the absence of enforceable patent protection, we may be vulnerable to competitors who attempt to copy our products or gain access to our trade secrets and know-how. Others may initiate litigation to challenge the validity of our patents, or allege that we infringe their patents, or they may use their resources to design comparable products that do not infringe our patents. We may incur substantial costs if our competitors initiate litigation to challenge the validity of our patents, or allege that we infringe their patents, or if we initiate any proceedings to protect our proprietary rights. If the outcome of any such litigation is unfavorable to us, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected. We also cannot be certain that our products or technologies have not infringed or will not infringe the proprietary rights of others. Any such infringement could cause third parties, including our competitors, to bring claims against us, resulting in significant costs, possible damages and substantial uncertainty. We could also be forced to develop an alternative that could be costly and time-consuming, or acquire a license, which we might not be able to do on terms favorable to us, or at all. For example, we are currently a defendant in an action in which Textron Innovations, Inc. is alleging that we willfully infringe certain claims of three patents by selling our Groundsmaster® commercial mowers. Textron Innovations, Inc. seeks damages for past sales and an injunction against future infringement. This litigation is currently stayed as our reexamination applications are pending in the USPTO. For additional information regarding this lawsuit, see Part I, Item 3 "Legal Proceedings" of this report. While we do not believe that this litigation will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, an unfavorable resolution or outcome could be material to our operating results. In addition, we rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how that we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our employees and consultants. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. Even if these confidentiality agreements are not breached, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. Our business, properties, and products are subject to governmental regulation with which compliance may require us to incur expenses or modify our products or operations and non-compliance may expose us to penalties. Governmental regulation may also adversely affect the demand for some of our products and our operating results. Our business, properties, and products are subject to numerous international, federal, state, and other governmental laws, rules, and regulations relating to, among other things, climate change; emissions to air and discharges to water; product and associated packaging; import and export compliance, including country of origin certification requirements; worker and product user health and safety; and the generation, use, handling, labeling, collection, management, storage, transportation, treatment, and disposal of hazardous substances, wastes, and other regulated materials. Although we believe that we are in substantial compliance with applicable laws, rules, and regulations, we are unable to predict the ultimate impact of adopted or future laws, rules, and regulations on our business, properties, or products. Any of these laws, rules, or regulations may cause us to incur significant expenses to achieve or maintain compliance, require us to modify our products, adversely affect the demand for some of our products, and ultimately affect the way we conduct our operations. Failure to comply with any of these laws, rules, or regulations could lead to fines and other penalties, including restrictions on the importation of our products into, and the sale of our products in, one or more jurisdictions until compliance is achieved. Because we own and lease real property, various environmental laws also may impose liability on us for the costs of cleaning up and responding to hazardous substances that may have been released on our property, including releases unknown to us. These environmental laws and regulations also could require us to pay for environmental remediation and response costs at third-party locations where we disposed of or recycled hazardous substances. We are currently involved in the evaluation and clean-up of a limited number of properties we either currently or previously owned. Although we do not expect that these current matters will have a material adverse effect on our financial position or operating results, our future costs of complying with the various environmental requirements, as they now exist or may be altered in the future, could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. In addition, governmental restrictions placed on water usage as well as water availability may adversely affect demand for our irrigation products. Changes in laws and regulations, including changes in accounting standards, taxation changes, including tax rate changes, new tax laws, and revised tax law interpretations, also may adversely affect our operating results. Legislative enactments could impact the competitive landscape within our markets and affect demand for our products. Various legislative proposals, if enacted, could put us in a competitively advantaged or disadvantaged position and affect customer demand for our products relative to the product offerings of our competitors. For example, any fiscal-stimulus or other legislative enactment that impacts the lawn and garden, outdoor power equipment, or irrigation industries generally by promoting the purchase, such as through customer rebate or other incentive programs, of certain types of mowing or irrigation equipment or other products that we sell, could impact us positively or negatively, depending on whether we manufacture products that meet the specified legislative criteria, including in areas such as fuel efficiency, alternative 16 energy or water usage, or if, as a result of such legislation, customers perceive our product offerings to be relatively more or less attractive than our competitors' product offerings. We cannot currently predict whether any such legislation will be enacted, what any such legislation's specific terms and conditions would encompass, how any such legislation would impact the competitive landscape within our markets, or how, if at all, any such legislation might ultimately affect customer demand for our products or our operating results. We are subject to product liability claims, product quality issues, and other litigation from time to time that could adversely affect our operating results or financial condition. The manufacture, sale, and usage of our products expose us to significant risks associated with product liability claims. If a product liability claim or series of claims is brought against us for uninsured liabilities or in excess of our insurance coverage, and it is ultimately determined that we are liable, our business could suffer. While we instruct our customers on the proper usage of our products, we cannot ensure that they will implement our instructions accurately or completely. If our products are defective or used incorrectly by our customers, injury may result and this could give rise to product liability claims against us or adversely affect our brand image or reputation. Any losses that we may suffer from any liability claims, and the effect that any product liability litigation may have upon the reputation and marketability of our products, may have a negative impact on our business and operating results. Some of our products or product improvements were developed relatively recently and defects or risks that we have not yet identified may give rise to product liability claims. Additionally, we could experience a material design or manufacturing failure in our products, a quality system failure, other safety issues, or heightened regulatory scrutiny that could warrant a recall of some of our products. A recall of some of our products could also result in increased product liability claims. Unforeseen product quality problems in the development and production of new and existing products could also result in loss of market share, reduced sales, and higher warranty expense. We are also subject to other litigation from time to time that could adversely affect our operating results or financial condition. For example, we are currently one of several defendants in lawsuits filed in various federal and state courts in which the plaintiffs are alleging that the horsepower labels on the products the plaintiffs purchased were inaccurate. For additional information regarding this lawsuit, see Part I, Item 3, "Legal Proceedings" of this report. In the event that settlement discussions do not result in an executed or court approved settlement agreement and these lawsuits go to trial, even if the plaintiffs' claims are found to be without merit, we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, substantial costs in defending the lawsuit. The lawsuit could divert the time and attention of our management and could result in adverse publicity, either of which could significantly harm our operating results and financial condition. In addition, an unfavorable resolution or outcome could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or financial condition. If we are unable to retain our key employees and attract and retain other qualified personnel, we may not be able to meet strategic objectives and our business could suffer. Our ability to meet our strategic objectives and otherwise grow our business will depend to a significant extent on the continued contributions of our leadership team. Our future success will also depend in large part on our ability to identify, attract, and retain other highly qualified managerial, technical, sales and marketing, and customer service personnel. Competition for these individuals is intense, and we may not succeed in identifying, attracting, or retaining qualified personnel. The loss or interruption of services of any of our key personnel, the inability to identify, attract, or retain qualified personnel in the future, delays in hiring qualified personnel, or any employee work slowdowns, strikes, or similar actions could make it difficult for us to conduct and manage our business and meet key objectives, which could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. The terms of our credit arrangements and the indentures governing our senior notes and debentures could limit our ability to conduct our business, take advantage of business opportunities and respond to changing business, market, and economic conditions. Additionally, we are subject to counterparty risk in our credit arrangements. Our credit arrangements and the indentures governing our 6.625% senior notes and 7.800% debentures include a number of financial and operating restrictions. For example, our credit arrangements contain financial covenants that, among other things, require us to maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio and a maximum debt to total capitalization ratio. Our credit arrangements and/or indentures also contain provisions that restrict our ability, subject to specified exceptions, to, among other things: •make loans or investments, including acquisitions; •create liens or other encumbrances on our assets; •sell assets; •engage in mergers or consolidations; and •pay dividends that are significantly higher than those currently being paid, make other distributions to our shareholders or redeem shares of our common stock. These provisions may limit our ability to conduct our business, take advantage of business opportunities, and respond to changing business, market, and economic conditions. In addition, they may 17 place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to other companies that may be subject to fewer, if any, restrictions or may otherwise adversely affect our business. Transactions that we may view as important opportunities, such as significant acquisitions, may be subject to the consent of the lenders under our credit arrangements, which consent may be withheld or granted subject to conditions specified at the time that may affect the attractiveness or viability of the transaction. Distress in the worldwide credit markets has had an adverse impact on the availability of credit. Although our $225 million revolving credit facility does not expire until January 2012, market deterioration could jeopardize the counterparty obligations of one or more of the banks participating in our facility, which could have an adverse effect on our business if we are not able to replace such credit facility or find other sources of liquidity on acceptable terms. If we are unable to comply with the terms of our credit arrangements and indentures, especially the financial covenants, our credit arrangements could be terminated and our senior notes and debentures could become due and payable. We cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with all of the terms of our credit arrangements and indentures, especially the financial covenants. Our ability to comply with such terms depends on the success of our business and our operating results. Various risks, uncertainties, and events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with the terms of our credit arrangements and/or indentures. If we were out of compliance with any covenant required by our credit arrangements following any applicable cure periods, the banks could terminate their commitments unless we could negotiate a covenant waiver. The banks could condition such waiver on amendments to the terms of our credit arrangements that may be unfavorable to us. In addition, our 6.625% senior notes and 7.800% debentures could become due and payable if we were unable to obtain a covenant waiver or refinance our medium-term debt under our credit arrangements. If our credit rating falls below investment grade, the interest rate we currently pay on outstanding debt under our credit arrangements could increase, which could adversely affect our operating results. Our business is subject to a number of other miscellaneous risks that may adversely affect our operating results, financial condition, or business. Other miscellaneous risks that could affect our business include: •natural or man-made disasters, which may result in shortages of raw materials and components, higher fuel costs, and increase in insurance premiums; •financial viability of distributors and dealers, changes in distributor ownership, our success in partnering with new dealers, and our customers' ability to pay amounts owed to us; and •continued threat of terrorist acts and war, which may result in heightened security and higher costs for import and export shipments of components or finished goods, reduced leisure travel, and contraction of the U.S. and worldwide economies. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 18 