item 1A. Risk factors The following are significant factors known to us that could materially adversely affect our business, operations, industry, financial position, or future financial performance. Changes in economic conditions in the United States and around the world could adversely affect our net sales. The demand for our products is dependent upon economic conditions, including but not limited to economic growth rates; slow downs or reductions in home ownership, construction, and home sales; consumer spending levels; employment rates; interest rates; inflation; and consumer confidence in the United States and the foreign economies in which we conduct business. Inflationary pressures, higher fuel prices, and higher short-term and mortgage interest rates could cause consumers to reduce spending, which could have an adverse effect on our net sales and earnings. Increases in the cost and availability of raw materials and components that we purchase and increases in our other costs of doing business, such as transportation costs, may adversely affect our profit margins and business. We purchase raw materials, such as steel, fuel, petroleum-based resins, and other commodities, and components, such as engines, transmissions, transaxles, hydraulics, and electric motors, for use in our products. Increases in the cost of such raw materials and components may adversely affect our profit margins if we are unable to pass along any cost increases in the form of price increases or otherwise reduce our cost of goods sold. In the past, the benefits from our Lean manufacturing initiative, as well as the implementation of other productivity improvement initiatives and price increases on some of our products, have offset a portion of increased raw material and component costs. However, we cannot commit that we will be able to continue to do so in the future. Although most of the raw materials and components of our products are commercially available from a number of sources and in adequate supply, any disruption in the availability of such raw materials and components, our inability to obtain substitutes for such items, or any deterioration in our relationships with our suppliers could adversely affect our business. Increases in our other costs of doing business may also adversely affect our profit margins and business. For example, an increase in fuel costs may also result in an increase in our transportation costs, which also could adversely affect our operating results and business. Weather conditions may reduce demand for some of our products and adversely affect our net sales. From time to time, weather conditions in a particular region or market may adversely affect sales of some of our products and field inventory levels. For example, in the past, drought conditions have had an adverse effect on sales of certain mowing equipment products, unusually rainy weather or severe drought conditions that result in watering bans have had an adverse effect on sales of our irrigation products, and lower snow fall accumulations have had an adverse effect on sales of our snow thrower products. Our professional segment net sales are dependent upon the level of growth in the residential and commercial construction markets, growth of homeowners’ outsourcing lawn care, the amount of investment in golf course renovations and improvements, new golf course development, and the amount of government spending. Our professional segment products are sold by distributors or dealers, or sold directly to government customers, rental companies, and professional users engaged in maintaining and creating landscapes, such as golf courses, sports fields, municipal properties, and residential and commercial landscapes. Our professional segment net sales, therefore, are dependent upon the level of growth in residential and commercial construction markets, growth of homeowners’ outsourcing lawn care, the amount of investment in golf course renovations and improvements, new golf course construction, and the amount of government spending. Reduced tax revenue, increased expenses, and tighter government budgets generally result in reduced government spending for grounds maintenance equipment, which could have an adverse effect on our professional segment net sales. In addition, a slow rate of growth in golf rounds played that impacts revenue for golf courses could adversely affect our sales of golf course equipment and irrigation products. Our residential segment net sales are dependent upon the amount of product placement at retailers, changing buying patterns of customers, and The Home Depot, Inc. as a major customer. The elimination or reduction of shelf space assigned to our products by retailers could adversely affect our residential segment net sales. Our residential segment net sales are also dependent upon changing buying patterns of customers. For example, in the last decade, there has been a trend away from purchases at dealer outlets and hardware retailers to price and value sensitive purchases at home centers and mass retailers. This trend has resulted in a demand for residential products purchased at retailers, such as The Home Depot, which accounted for a greater percentage of our net sales in the past few fiscal years compared 11 to our net sales during and prior to the 1990’s. The Home Depot accounted for greater than 10 percent of our total consolidated net sales in fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004. We believe that our diverse distribution channels and customer base should reduce the impact on us if we were to lose The Home Depot or any other substantial customer. However, the loss of any substantial customer or a significant reduction in sales to The Home Depot or other customers could have a material impact on our business and operating results. Changing buying patterns of customers also could result in reduced sales of one or more of our residential segment products, resulting in increased inventory levels. Although our residential spring and summer products are generally manufactured throughout the year, our residential fall and winter products are generally manufactured in the summer and fall months. Our production levels and inventory management goals are based on estimates of demand for our products, taking into account production capacity, timing of shipments, and field inventory levels. If we overestimate or underestimate demand during a given season, we may have excess or insufficient inventories. If we are unable to continue to enhance existing products and develop and market new products that respond to customer needs and achieve market acceptance, we may experience a decrease in demand for our products, and our business could suffer. One of our growth strategies is to develop innovative, customer-valued products to generate revenue growth. Our sales from new products in the past have represented a significant component of our net sales and are expected to continue to represent a significant component of our future net sales. We may not be able to compete as effectively with our competitors, and ultimately satisfy our customers, unless we can continue to enhance existing products and develop new innovative products in the markets in which we compete. Product development requires significant financial, technological, and other resources. Although in the past we have implemented Lean manufacturing and other productivity improvement initiatives to provide investment funding for new products, we cannot be certain that we will be able to continue to do so in the future. Product improvements and new product introductions also require significant planning, design, development, and testing at the technological, product, and manufacturing process levels and we may not be able to timely develop product improvements or new products. Our competitors’ new products may beat our products to market, may be more effective with more features and/or less expensive than our products or render our products obsolete. Any new products that we may develop may not receive market acceptance or otherwise generate any meaningful net sales or profits for us relative to our expectations, based on, among other things, existing and anticipated investments in manufacturing capacity and commitments to fund advertising, marketing, promotional programs, and research and development. We face intense competition in all of our product lines with numerous manufacturers, including from some that have greater financial and other resources than we do. We may not be able to compete effectively against competitors’ actions, which could harm our business and operating results. Our products are sold in highly competitive markets throughout the world. Principal competitive factors in our markets include pricing, product innovation, quality and reliability, product support and customer service, warranty, reputation, distribution, shelf space, and financing options. We compete in all of our product lines with numerous manufacturers, some who have substantially greater financial, marketing, and other resources than we do. As a result, they may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products than we can. In addition, competition could increase if new companies enter the market or if existing competitors expand their product lines or intensify efforts within existing product lines. Our current products, products under development, and our ability to develop new and improved products may be insufficient to enable us to compete effectively with our competitors. Internationally, our residential segment products typically face more competition where foreign competitors manufacture and market products in their respective countries. We experience this competition primarily in Europe and Asia. In addition, fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar may affect the price of our products in foreign markets, thereby impacting their competitiveness. Pricing has become an increasingly important competitive factor for many of our products. We may not be able to compete effectively against competitors’ actions, which could harm our business and operating results. A significant percentage of our consolidated net sales is generated outside of the United States, and we intend to continue to expand our international operations. Our international operations require significant management attention and financial resources, expose us to difficulties presented by international economic, political, legal, accounting, and business factors, and may not be successful or produce desired levels of net sales. We manufacture our products in the United States, Mexico, Australia, the United Kingdom, and Italy for sale throughout the world and maintain sales offices in the United States, Belgium, the United Kingdom, France, Australia, Singapore, Japan, China, Italy, and Switzerland. Our net sales outside the United States were 27.0 percent, 24.8 percent, and 20.7 percent of our total 12 consolidated net sales for fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. International markets have in the past and will continue to be a focus for us to grow our revenues. For example, in February 2005, we completed the acquisition of certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of Hayter Limited, a company located in the United Kingdom that designs, manufactures, and markets residential and professional turf maintenance equipment, primarily for the United Kingdom market. We believe many opportunities exist in the international markets, and our goal is for international net sales to comprise a larger percentage of our total consolidated net sales. The expansion of our existing international operations and entry into additional international markets requires significant management attention and financial resources. Many of the countries in which we sell our products or otherwise have an international presence are, to some degree, subject to political, economic, and/or social instability. Our international operations expose us and our representatives, agents, and distributors to risks inherent in operating in foreign jurisdictions. These risks include: · increased costs of customizing products for foreign countries; · difficulties in managing and staffing international operations and increases in infrastructure costs including legal, tax, accounting, and information technology; · the imposition of additional U.S. and foreign governmental controls or regulations; new trade restrictions and restrictions on the activities of foreign agents, representatives, and distributors; and the imposition of increases in costly and lengthy export licensing requirements, customs duties and tariffs, license obligations, and other non-tariff barriers to trade; · the imposition of U.S. and/or international sanctions against a country, company, person, or entity with whom we do business that would restrict or prohibit our continued business with the sanctioned country, company, person, or entity; · international pricing pressures; · laws and business practices favoring local companies; · adverse currency exchange rate fluctuations; · longer payment cycles and difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; · difficulties in enforcing or defending intellectual property rights; and · multiple, changing, and often inconsistent enforcement of laws, rules, and regulations, including, in particular, rules relating to environmental, health, and safety matters. Our operations in other countries may not produce desired levels of net sales or one or more of the factors listed above may harm our business and operating results. Any material decrease in our international sales or profitability could also adversely impact our operating results. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could result in declines in our reported net sales and net earnings. Because the functional currency of our foreign operations is the applicable local currency, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk arising from transactions in the normal course of business, such as sales and loans to wholly owned subsidiaries as well as sales to third party customers, purchases from suppliers, and bank lines of credit with creditors denominated in foreign currencies. Our reported net sales and net earnings are subject to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Because our products are manufactured or sourced primarily from the United States, a stronger U.S. dollar generally has a negative impact on results from operations outside the United States while a weaker dollar generally has a positive effect. Our primary exchange rate exposure is with the Euro, the Australian dollar, the Canadian dollar, the British pound, the Mexican peso, and the Japanese yen against the U.S. dollar. While we actively manage the exposure of our foreign currency market risk in the normal course of business by entering into various foreign exchange contracts, these instruments may not effectively limit our underlying exposure from currency fluctuations or minimize our net earnings and cash volatility associated with foreign currency exchange rate changes. We manufacture our products at and distribute our products from several locations in the United States and internationally. Any disruption at any of these facilities or our inability to cost-effectively expand existing and move production between manufacturing facilities could adversely affect our business and operating results. We manufacture most of our products at seven locations in the United States, two locations in Mexico, and one location in each of Australia, Italy, and the United Kingdom. We also have several locations that serve as distribution centers, warehouses, test facilities, and corporate offices. Our facilities may be affected by natural or man-made disasters. In the event one of our manufacturing facilities was affected by a disaster, we could be forced to shift production to one of our other manufacturing facilities. Although we purchase insurance for damage to our property and disruption of our business from casualties, such insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses. Any disruption in our manufacturing capacity could have an adverse impact on our ability to produce sufficient inventory of our products or may require us to incur additional expenses in order to produce sufficient inventory, and therefore may adversely affect our net sales and operating results. Any disruption or delay at our manufacturing facilities, including a strike at any one of our three facilities operating under a collective bargaining agreement or the failure to renew or enter into a new collective bargaining agreement, could impair our ability to meet the demand of our 13 customers and our customers may cancel orders or purchase products from our competitors, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our operating results may also be adversely affected if we are unable to cost-effectively expand existing and move production between manufacturing facilities as needed from time to time. We intend to grow our business through additional acquisitions and alliances, stronger customer relations, and new partnerships, which are risky and could harm our business. One of our growth strategies is to drive growth in our businesses and accelerate opportunities to expand our global presence through targeted acquisitions, alliances, stronger customer relations, and new partnerships that complement our existing brands and product portfolio. In February 2005, we completed the acquisition of certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of Hayter Limited in the United Kingdom. The benefits of an acquisition or new partnership may take more time than expected to develop or integrate into our operations, and we cannot guarantee that our Hayter acquisition or any future acquisitions, alliances, or joint ventures will in fact produce any benefits. In addition, acquisitions, alliances, joint ventures, and partnerships involve a number of risks, including: · diversion of management’s attention; · difficulties in assimilating the operations and products of an acquired business or in realizing projected efficiencies, cost savings, and synergies; · potential loss of key employees or customers of the acquired businesses or adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; · adverse impact on overall profitability if acquired businesses do not achieve the financial results projected in our valuation models; · reallocation of amounts of capital from other operating initiatives and/or an increase in our leverage and debt service requirements to pay the acquisition purchase prices, which could in turn restrict our ability to access additional capital when needed or to pursue other important elements of our business strategy; · inaccurate assessment of undisclosed, contingent or other liabilities or problems, unanticipated costs associated with an acquisition, and an inability to recover or manage such liabilities and costs; and · incorrect estimates made in the accounting for acquisitions, incurrence of non-recurring charges, and write-off of significant amounts of goodwill or other assets that could adversely affect our operating results. Our ability to grow through acquisitions will depend, in part, on the availability of suitable acquisition candidates at an acceptable price, our ability to compete effectively for these acquisition candidates, and the availability of capital and personnel to complete such acquisitions and run the acquired business effectively. These risks could be heightened if we complete a large acquisition or several acquisitions within a relatively short period of time. In addition, some acquisitions may require the consent of the lenders under our credit agreements. We cannot predict whether such approvals would be forthcoming or the terms on which the lenders would approve such acquisitions. Any potential acquisition could impair our operating results. We rely on our management information systems for inventory management, distribution, and other functions. If our information systems fail to adequately perform these functions or if we experience an interruption in their operation, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our management information systems. We rely on our management information systems to effectively manage accounting and financial functions, manage manufacturing and supply chain processes, and maintain our research and development data. The failure of our management information systems to perform properly could disrupt our business and product development and could result in decreased sales, increased overhead costs, excess inventory, and product shortages, causing our business and operating results to suffer. In addition, our management information systems, including our computer systems, Internet web sites, telecommunications, and data networks, are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural or man-made disasters, terrorist attacks and attacks by computer viruses or hackers, or power loss. Any such interruption could adversely affect our business and operating results. A significant portion of our net sales are financed by third parties. Some Toro dealers and Exmark distributors and dealers finance their inventories with third party financing sources. The termination of our agreements with these third parties, any material change to the terms of our agreements with these third parties or in the availability or terms of credit offered to our customers by these third parties, or any delay in securing replacement credit sources, could adversely affect our sales and operating results. Some Toro and Lawn-Boy dealers and Exmark distributors and dealers generally finance their inventories with third party financing companies. These third party financing companies purchase select receivables from us and our distributors and dealers for extended periods that assist our distributors and dealers in carrying representative inventories of our products. We also have agreements with third party financing companies to provide financing options to golf course and sports fields and grounds 14 equipment customers and micro-irrigation customers in North America and Europe. The purpose of these agreements is to increase our net sales by giving buyers of our products alternative financing options when purchasing our products. We also have an agreement with a third party financing company to provide financing programs under a private label program offered primarily to Toro, Lawn-Boy, and Exmark dealers that provides our end-user customers a revolving line of credit for Toro and Exmark products, parts, and services. Termination of our agreements with these third parties, any material change to the terms of our agreements with these third parties or in the availability or terms of credit for our customers from these third parties, or any delay in securing replacement credit sources, could adversely affect our operating results. Our reliance upon patents, trademark laws, and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights may not be sufficient to protect our intellectual property from others who may sell similar products. We hold patents relating to various aspects of our products and believe that proprietary technical know-how is important to our business generally as well as many of our products. Proprietary rights relating to our products are protected from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that they are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are maintained in confidence as trade secrets. We cannot be certain that we will be issued any patents from any pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us or that the claims allowed under any issued patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In the absence of enforceable patent protection, we may be vulnerable to competitors who attempt to copy our products or gain access to our trade secrets and know-how. Our competitors may initiate litigation to challenge the validity of our patents, or they may use their resources to design comparable products that do not infringe our patents. We may incur substantial costs if our competitors initiate litigation to challenge the validity of our patents, or if we initiate any proceedings to protect our proprietary rights, and if the outcome of any such litigation is unfavorable to us, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. There may also be pending or issued patents held by parties not affiliated with us that relate to our products or technologies, and we may need to acquire licenses to any such patents to continue selling some or all of our products. If we had to obtain any such license in order to be able to continue to sell some or all of our products, we may not be able to do so on terms that were favorable to us, if at all. In addition, we rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how that we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our employees and consultants. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. Even if these confidentiality agreements are not breached, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. Our business, properties, and products are subject to governmental regulation with which compliance may require us to incur expenses or modify our products or operations and may expose us to penalties for non-compliance. Governmental regulation may also adversely affect the demand for some of our products and our operating results. Our business, properties, and products are subject to a wide variety of international, federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, natural resources, and worker and product user health and safety, and the use, management, storage, and disposal of hazardous substances, wastes, and other regulated materials. These laws, rules, and regulations may affect the way we conduct our operations, and the failure to comply with these regulations could lead to fines and other penalties. Because we own and lease real property, various environmental laws also may impose liability on us for the costs of cleaning up and responding to hazardous substances that may have been released on our property, including releases unknown to us. These environmental laws and regulations also could require us to pay for environmental remediation and response costs at third-party locations where we disposed of or recycled hazardous substances. We are currently involved in the evaluation and clean-up of a limited number of properties we either currently or previously owned. Although we do not expect that these current matters will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or operating results, our future costs of complying with the various environmental requirements, as they now exist or may be altered in the future, could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. We are also subject to other international, federal and state laws, rules and regulations, the future non-compliance with which may harm our business or may adversely affect the demand for some of our products. For example, our residential products are subject to various United States statutes designed to protect consumers and are subject to the administrative jurisdiction of the Consumer Product Safety Commission. The United States Environmental Protection Agency and California Air Resources Board adopted emissions regulations setting maximum emission standards for certain off-road equipment. The European Union also adopted environmental directives that mandate the labeling, collection, and disposal of electrical and electronic equipment and bans the sale of electrical and electronic equipment containing certain hazardous substances. In addition, governmental restrictions placed on water usage as well as water availability may adversely affect demand for our irrigation products. Changes in laws and regulations, including changes in accounting standards, taxation changes, including tax rate changes, new tax 15 laws, and revised tax law interpretations, also may adversely affect our operating results. We are subject to product liability claims, product quality issues, and other litigation from time to time that could adversely affect our operating results or financial condition. The manufacture, sale, and usage of our products expose us to significant risk of product liability claims. If a product liability claim or series of claims is brought against us for uninsured liabilities or in excess of our insurance coverage and it is ultimately determined that we are liable, our business could suffer. While we instruct our customers on the proper usage of our products, we cannot ensure that they will implement our instructions accurately. If our products are defective or used incorrectly by our customers, injury may result and this could give rise to product liability claims against us. Any losses that we may suffer from any liability claims, and the effect that any product liability litigation may have upon the reputation and marketability of our products, may divert management’s attention from other matters and may have a negative impact on our business and operating results. Some of our products or product improvements were developed relatively recently and defects or risks that we have not yet identified may give rise to product liability claims. Additionally, we could experience a material design or manufacturing failure in our products, a quality system failure, other safety issues or heightened regulatory scrutiny that could warrant a recall of some of our products. A recall of some of our products could also result in increased product liability claims. Unforeseen product quality problems in the development and production of new and existing products could also result in loss of market share, reduced sales, and higher warranty expense. We are also subject to other litigation from time to time that could adversely affect our operating results or financial condition. For example, we are currently one of nine defendants in a purported class action in which the plaintiffs are alleging that the horsepower labels on the products the plaintiffs purchased were inaccurate. The amended complaint asserts violations of the federal Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations (RICO) Act and statutory and common law claims arising from the laws of 48 states. The amended complaint seeks an injunction, unspecified compensatory and punitive damages, treble damages under the RICO Act, and attorneys’ fees. Even if the plaintiffs’ claims are found to be without merit, we have incurred and may continue to incur substantial costs in defending the lawsuit. The lawsuit could divert the time and attention of our management and could result in adverse publicity, either of which could significantly harm our operating results and financial condition. Although we are currently unable to assess whether the litigation would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated operating results or financial condition, any adverse determination in the litigation might result in material liability, which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. If we are unable to retain our key employees and attract and retain other qualified personnel, we may not be able to meet strategic objectives and our business could suffer. Our ability to meet our strategic objectives and otherwise grow will depend to a significant extent on the continued contributions of our senior management team. Our future success will also depend in large part on our ability to identify, attract, and retain other highly qualified managerial, technical, sales and marketing, and customer service personnel. Competition for these individuals is intense, and we may not succeed in identifying, attracting, or retaining qualified personnel. The loss or interruption of services of any of our key personnel, the inability to identify, attract, or retain qualified personnel in the future, delays in hiring qualified personnel, or any employee slowdowns, strikes, or similar actions could make it difficult for us to conduct and manage our business and meet key objectives, which could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. Our business is subject to a number of other miscellaneous risks that may adversely affect our operating results, financial condition, or business. Other miscellaneous risks that could affect our business include: · natural or man-made disasters, which may result in shortages of raw materials, higher fuel costs, and increase in insurance premiums; · financial viability of distributors and dealers, changes in distributor ownership, our success in partnering with new dealers, and our customers’ ability to pay amounts owed to us; and · continued threat of terrorist acts and war, which may result in heightened security and higher costs for import and export shipments of components or finished goods, reduced leisure travel, and contraction of the U.S. and worldwide economies. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED SEC STAFF COMMENTS None. 16 