ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In connection with the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the Company wishes to caution readers that the following important factors, among others, in some cases have affected, and in the future could affect, the Company's actual results and could cause its actual results in 2006 and beyond to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, the Company. THE COMPANY COULD INCUR SUBSTANTIAL COSTS IN PROTECTING AND DEFENDING ITS INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY, AND LOSS OF PATENT RIGHTS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS. The Company holds patents relating to various aspects of its products and believes that proprietary technical know-how is critical to many of its products. Proprietary rights relating to the Company's products are protected from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that they are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are maintained in confidence as trade 7 secrets. There can be no assurance that patents will issue from any pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to the Company or that the claims allowed under any issued patents will be sufficiently broad to protect the Company's technology. In the absence of patent protection, the Company may be vulnerable to competitors who attempt to copy the Company's products or gain access to its trade secrets and technical know-how. Proceedings initiated by the Company to protect its proprietary rights could result in substantial costs to the Company. There can be no assurance that competitors of the Company will not initiate litigation to challenge the validity of the Company's patents, or that they will not use their resources to design comparable products that do not infringe upon the Company's patents. There may also be pending or issued patents held by parties not affiliated with the Company that relate to the Company's products or technologies. The Company may need to acquire licenses to, or contest the validity of, any such patents. There can be no assurance that any license required under any such patent would be made available on acceptable terms or that the Company would prevail in any such contest. The Company could incur substantial costs in defending itself in suits brought against it or in suits in which the Company may assert its patent rights against others. If the outcome of any such litigation is unfavorable to the Company, the Company's business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, the Company relies on trade secrets and proprietary technical know-how that it seeks to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with its collaborators, employees, and consultants. There can be no assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that the Company would have adequate remedies for any breach, or that the Company's trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. OUR FAILURE TO IMPLEMENT AND MAINTAIN EFFECTIVE INTERNAL CONTROLS IN OUR BUSINESS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND STOCK PRICE. We believe that we currently have adequate internal controls over financial reporting but we are still exposed to potential risks resulting from new requirements that we evaluate the effectiveness of such internal controls under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. As a non-accelerated filer, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we include in our annual report on Form 10-K for December 31, 2007 our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, our independent auditors will be required to attest to whether our assessment is free of material misstatement and documented in an acceptable form and separately report on whether they believe we maintain, in all material respects, effective control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007. We are currently documenting our internal control systems and procedures and implementing improvements in order to comply with the assessment and attestation requirements of Section 404. The evaluation and attestation processes required by Section 404 are new and neither companies nor independent auditors have significant experience in testing or complying with these requirements. Accordingly, we may encounter problems or delays in completing the review and evaluation, the implementation of improvements, the receipt of a report of our independent auditors indicating that management's assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting is free of material misstatement and is adequately documented, and the receipt of a separate report of our independent auditors that we maintain effective internal controls. While we currently anticipate being able to fully implement the requirements of Section 404, we cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or our independent auditors' audit thereof. If we are not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we may be unable to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. The impact thereof on our future financial performance and the market price of our stock is uncertain, and we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission or the NASDAQ. FUTURE CHANGES IN FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS OR TAXATION RULES MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR REPORTED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. A change in accounting standards or a change in existing taxation rules can have a significant effect on our reported results. New accounting pronouncements and taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. These new accounting pronouncements and taxation rules may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. Under the newly-issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123(R), we will be required to account for equity under our stock option plans as a compensation expense, and our net income and net income per share will be reduced. Currently, we record compensation expense only in connection with option grants that have an exercise price below fair market value. For option grants that have an exercise price at fair market value, we calculate compensation expense and disclose their impact on net income (loss) and net income (loss) per share, as 8 well as the impact of all stock-based compensation expense in a footnote to the consolidated financial statements. The Company plans to adopt SFAS 123(R) as of the beginning of the first quarter of 2006. THE COMPANY'S INCREASED R&D EFFORTS MAY NOT RESULT IN PRODUCTS THAT ARE SUCCESSFUL IN THE MARKETPLACE. During 2003, the Company announced its plan to increase spending on R&D for potential new products. The Company feels that to maintain its market share for existing products and to gain market share in new markets such as homeland security, that it must increase its R&D spending. The Company expects its R&D expense to be higher than its historical average. Such R&D spending may involve new technology or updates of existing technology. There is no assurance that such R&D efforts to develop new technology or efforts to acquire new technology from third parties will be successful, or that if R&D efforts do yield new products, that such products will be successful in the marketplace once introduced. THE COMPANY'S OPERATING RESULTS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION COULD BE HARMED IF THE INDUSTRIES, INTO WHICH IT SELLS ITS PRODUCTS, DEMAND FEWER PRODUCTS SIMILAR TO PRODUCTS SOLD BY THE COMPANY. Visibility into our markets is limited. Any decline in our customers' markets or in general economic conditions would likely result in a reduction in demand for our products and services. The environmental instrument markets, in which the Company competes, have been flat or declining over the past several years. Any further decline in our customers' markets or in general economic conditions would likely result in a further reduction in demand for our products and services and could harm our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows, and stock price. The Company has identified a number of strategies it believes will allow it to grow its business despite this decline, including acquiring complementary businesses, developing new applications for its technologies, and strengthening its presence in selected geographic markets. No assurance can be given that the Company will be able to successfully implement these strategies, or if successfully implemented, that these strategies will result in growth of the Company's business. OUR ACQUISITIONS, STRATEGIC ALLIANCES, JOINT VENTURES AND DIVESTITURES MAY RESULT IN FINANCIAL RESULTS THAT ARE DIFFERENT THAN EXPECTED. The Company's success is highly dependent upon implementation of its acquisition strategy. Certain businesses acquired and strategic alliances by the Company in the past years have produced net operating losses or low levels of profitability, including the strategic alliance with Intelligent Ion, Inc. and the acquisition of General Analysis Corporation. Businesses the Company may seek to acquire in the future may also be marginally profitable or unprofitable. For any acquired business to achieve the level of profitability desired by the Company, the Company must successfully change the acquired companies' operations and improve their market penetration. No assurance can be given that the Company will be successful in this regard. In addition, promising acquisitions are difficult to identify and complete for a number of reasons, including competition among prospective buyers and the need for regulatory approvals, including antitrust approvals. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to complete pending or future acquisitions. In order to finance such acquisitions, it may be necessary for the Company to raise additional funds either through public or private financing. Debt financing, if available, may be on terms that are unfavorable to the Company, and equity financing may result in significant dilution to the Company's shareholders. As a result of such transactions, the Company's financial results may differ from the investment community's expectations in a given quarter. In addition, acquisitions and strategic alliances may require the Company to integrate a different company culture, management team, and business infrastructure. The Company may have difficulty developing, manufacturing, and marketing the products of a newly acquired company in a way that enhances the performance of its combined businesses or product lines to realize the value from expected synergies. Depending on the size and complexity of an acquisition, the Company's successful integration of the entity depends on a variety of factors including; the retention of key employees, the management of facilities and employees in separate geographic areas, the retention of key customers, and the integration or coordination of different research and development, product manufacturing and sales programs, and facilities. All of these efforts require varying levels of management resources that may divert the Company's attention from other business operations. If the Company does not realize the expected benefits or synergies of such transactions, its consolidated financial position, results of operations, and stock price could be negatively impacted. TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE COULD CAUSE THE COMPANY'S PRODUCTS TO BECOME NON-COMPETITIVE OR OBSOLETE. The market for the Company's products and services is characterized by rapid and significant technological change and evolving industry standards. New product introductions responsive to these factors require significant planning, design, development, and testing at the technological, product, and manufacturing process levels, and may render existing products and technologies noncompetitive or obsolete. There can be no assurance that the Company's products will 9 not become noncompetitive or obsolete. In addition, industry acceptance of new technologies developed by the Company may be slow to develop due to, among other things, existing regulations that apply specifically to older technologies and the general unfamiliarity of users with new technologies. CONSOLIDATION IN THE ENVIRONMENTAL INSTRUMENT MARKET AND CHANGES IN ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS. One of the important markets for the Company's products is environmental analysis. After contracting for several years, the market for analytical instruments used for environmental analysis could continue contracting and consolidation. This contraction has caused consolidation in the companies serving this market. Such consolidation may have an adverse impact on certain businesses of the Company. In addition, most air, water, and soil analyses are conducted to comply with federal, state, local, and foreign environmental regulations. These regulations are frequently specific as to the type of technology required for a particular analysis and the level of detection required for that analysis. The Company develops, configures, and markets its products to meet customer needs created by existing and anticipated environmental regulations. These regulations may be amended or eliminated in response to new scientific evidence or political or economic considerations. Any significant change in environmental regulations could result in a reduction in demand for the Company's products. REDUCED CAPITAL SPENDING BY THE COMPANY'S CUSTOMERS COULD HARM ITS BUSINESS. The Company's customers include various government agencies and public and private research institutions, which accounted for 25% of the Company's sales in 2005, as well as pharmaceutical and chemical companies and laboratories. The capital spending of these entities can have a significant effect on the demand for the Company's products. Such spending is based on a wide variety of factors, including the resources available to make purchases, the spending priorities among various types of equipment, public policy, political trends, and the effects of different economic cycles. Any decrease in capital spending by any of the customer groups, which account for a significant portion of the Company's sales, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and results of operations. THE COMPANY'S RESULTS OF OPERATIONS ARE DEPENDENT ON ITS RELATIONSHIP WITH AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. (AGILENT). On December 1, 2000, the Company entered into an OEM agreement with Agilent, and it has been renewed in December 2001, 2002, 2003 2004 and 2005. The original equipment manufacturers (OEM) agreement does not provide for marketing cooperation between the Company and Agilent, and therefore, the Company and Agilent compete for the same business. No assurances can be made that Agilent will renew the OEM agreement, nor that the Company will sustain sales levels in the future under the Agilent OEM agreement. As the Company continues to evaluate its alternatives, it may be determined that continuing the OEM agreement is not its best strategy. The OEM agreement is renewable on an annual basis, and there is no assurance that it will be renewed in future years. Failure to renew the agreement would place at risk a substantial part of the Company's sales of GC systems and would have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. COMPLIANCE WITH GOVERNMENTAL REGULATIONS COULD SUBJECT THE COMPANY TO SIGNIFICANT EXPENSE. The Company has agreements relating to the sale of products to government entities and is subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with the government. The Company is also subject to investigation for compliance with the terms of government contracts. Non-compliance, although inadvertent, may result in legal proceedings against the Company or liability, either of which may be a significant expense or disruption to the Company's business. Several of the Company's product lines are subject to significant international, federal, state, local, health, safety, packaging, product content, and labor regulations. In addition, many of the Company's products are regulated or sold into regulated industries, requiring compliance with additional regulations in marketing these products. Significant expenses may be incurred to comply with these regulations or remedy past violations of these regulations. Any failure to comply with applicable government regulations could also result in cessation of portions or all of the Company's operations, impositions of fines, and restrictions on the ability to carry on or expand operations. ENVIRONMENTAL CONTAMINATION CAUSED BY ONGOING OPERATIONS COULD SUBJECT THE COMPANY TO SUBSTANTIAL LIABILITIES IN THE FUTURE. Some of the Company's manufacturing processes involve the use of substances regulated under various international, federal, state, and local laws governing the environment. The Company could be subject to liabilities for environmental contamination, and these liabilities may be substantial. Although the Company's policy is to apply strict standards for environmental protection at its sites inside and outside the United States, even if not subject to regulations imposed by foreign governments, the Company may not be aware of all conditions that could subject it to liability. 10 COMPLIANCE WITH GOVERNMENTAL REGULATIONS MAY CAUSE THE COMPANY TO INCUR SIGNIFICANT EXPENSES, AND FAILURE TO MAINTAIN COMPLIANCE WITH CERTAIN GOVERNMENTAL REGULATIONS MAY HAVE A NEGATIVE IMPACT ON THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. The Company's business is subject to various significant international, federal, state, and local, health and safety, packaging, product content, and labor regulations. These regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. For example, the Company's chemical analysis products are used in the drug design and production processes to test compliance with the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, and similar regulations. Therefore, the Company must continually adapt its chemical analysis products to changing regulations. The Company may be required to incur significant expenses to comply with these regulations or to remedy violations of these regulations. Any failure by the Company to comply with applicable government regulations could also result in cessation of its operations or portions of its operations, product recalls or impositions of fines and restrictions on its ability to carry on or expand its operations. In addition, because many of the Company's products are regulated or sold into regulated industries, it must comply with additional regulations in marketing its products. The Company's products and operations are also often subject to the rules of industrial standards bodies, like the International Standards Organization, as well as regulation of other agencies such as the U. S. Federal Communications Commission. The Company also must comply with work safety rules. If the Company fails to adequately address any of these regulations, its business will be harmed. ECONOMIC, POLITICAL, AND OTHER RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH INTERNATIONAL SALES COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE COMPANY'S RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Sales outside the U. S. accounted for approximately 29% of the Company's revenues in 2005. The Company expects that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of the Company's revenues in the future. Sales to the Company's international customers are subject to a number of risks including interruption to transportation flows for delivery of finished goods to its customers; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in political or economic conditions in a specific country or region; trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; negative consequences from changes in tax laws; differing protection of intellectual property; and unexpected changes in regulatory requirements. There can be no assurance that any of these factors will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and results of operations. THE COMPANY FACES COMPETITION FROM THIRD PARTIES IN THE SALE OF ITS PRODUCTS. The Company encounters and expects to continue to encounter intense competition in the sale of its products. The Company believes that the principal competitive factors affecting the market for its products include product performance, price, reliability, and customer service. The Company's competitors include large multinational corporations and operating units of such corporations. Most of the Company's competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, and other resources than those of the Company. Therefore, they may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products than the Company. In addition, competition could increase if new companies enter the market or if existing competitors expand their product lines or intensify efforts within existing product lines. There can be no assurance that the Company's current products, products under development, or ability to discover new technologies will be sufficient to enable it to compete effectively with its competitors. THE COMPANY'S FLUCTUATING QUARTERLY OPERATING RESULTS MAY NEGATIVELY IMPACT STOCK PRICE. The Company cannot reliably predict future revenue and profitability, and unexpected changes may cause adjustments to the Company's operations. Since a high proportion of the Company's costs are fixed, due in part to significant cost to maintain customer support, research and development and manufacturing costs, relatively small declines in revenues could disproportionately affect the Company's quarterly operating results, and in turn, cause declines in the Company's stock price. Other factors that could affect quarterly operating results include lower demand for and market acceptance of products due to adverse changes in economic activity or conditions in the Company's major markets; lower selling prices due to competitive pressures; unanticipated delays, problems, or increased costs in the introduction of new products or manufacture of existing products; changes in the relative portion of revenue represented by the Company's various products and customers; and competitors' announcements of new products, services or technological innovations. Any one of these factors, individually or in combination, could cause the stock price of the Company to fluctuate greatly. ALTHOUGH INFLATION HAS NOT HAD A MATERIAL IMPACT ON THE COMPANY'S OPERATIONS, THERE IS NO ASSURANCE THAT INFLATION WILL NOT ADVERSELY AFFECT ITS OPERATIONS IN THE FUTURE. The Company believes that competition based on price is a significant factor affecting its customers' buying decisions. There is no assurance that the Company can pass 11 along cost increases in the form of price increases or sustain profit margins that have been achieved in prior years. The prices of some components purchased by the Company have increased in the past several years due in part to decreased volume. Certain other material and labor costs have also increased, but the Company believes that these increases are approximately consistent with overall inflation rates or inflation on certain commodities that would effect all industry participants in a reasonably similar way. FAILURE OF SUPPLIERS TO DELIVER SUFFICIENT QUANTITIES OF PARTS IN A TIMELY MANNER COULD CAUSE THE COMPANY TO LOSE SALES AND, IN TURN, ADVERSELY AFFECT THE COMPANY'S RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. The Company may be materially and adversely impacted if sufficient parts are not received in time to meet manufacturing requirements. Factors that may result in manufacturing delays include certain parts that may be available only from a single supplier or a limited number of suppliers; key components may become unavailable and may be difficult to replace without significant reengineering of the Company's products; suppliers may extend lead times, limit supplies, or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. Should the Company reduce purchase orders to its suppliers and its sales increase rapidly, its suppliers may not react quickly enough or may refuse to expedite shipments of parts to use because of the Company's previous reduction in requirements. If sufficient parts are not received in time to meet manufacturing requirements, then the Company will not be able to meet its obligations to deliver goods to its customers and may cause the Company to lose sales. THE COMPANY'S INABILITY TO ADJUST ITS ORDERS FOR PARTS OR ADAPT ITS MANUFACTURING CAPACITY IN RESPONSE TO CHANGING MARKET CONDITIONS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE COMPANY'S EARNINGS. The Company's earnings could be harmed if it is unable to adjust its orders for parts to respond to market fluctuations. In order to secure components for the production of products, the Company may enter into non-cancelable purchase commitments with vendors, or at times make advance payments to suppliers, which could impact its ability to adjust its inventory to declining market demands. Prior commitments of this type have resulted in an excess of parts as demand for certain of the Company's products has decreased. The Company's provision for such circumstances may not be adequate. If the demand for the Company's products continues to decrease, it may experience an excess of parts and be forced to incur additional charges. Certain parts may be available only from a single supplier or a limited number of suppliers. In addition, suppliers may cease manufacturing certain components that are difficult to substitute without significant reengineering of the Company's products. Suppliers may also extend lead times, limit supplies, or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. Additionally, because the Company cannot immediately adapt its production capacity and related cost structures to rapidly changing market conditions, when demand does not meet the Company's expectations, its manufacturing capacity will likely exceed its production requirements. IF THE COMPANY SUFFERS LOSS TO OUR FACILITIES OR DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM DUE TO CATASTROPHE, OUR OPERATIONS COULD BE SERIOUSLY HARMED. Our facilities and distribution system are subject to catastrophic loss due to fire, flood, terrorism, or other natural or man-made disasters. Our production facilities and corporate headquarters are located in College Station, Texas, and we also have production facilities in Alabama. If any of these facilities were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments, and revenue and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facilities. Although we carry insurance for property damage and business interruption, we do not carry insurance or financial reserves for interruptions or potential losses arising from earthquakes or terrorism. THE INTRODUCTION OF NEW PRODUCTS RESULTS IN RISKS RELATING TO START UP OF SUCH PRODUCTS, CUSTOMER ACCEPTANCE, EMPLOYEE TRAINING, DISTRIBUTOR TRAINING, AND PHASE OUT OF OLD PRODUCTS. The development and introduction of new products requires the execution of a number of steps any one of which if not executed properly can result in lost sales, market share, and damage to our reputation all of which might result in operating loss and accordingly our stock price could decline. THE INFORMATION SYSTEMS THE COMPANY UTILIZES COULD FAIL OR LOSE COMPATABILITY OR VENDORS COULD STOP SUPPORTING THEM. Our automated computerized systems are used to perform virtually all business processes including maintaining our general ledger for accounting, engineering records, customer data, supplier data, and provides records retention for much of the Company's general business records. The software systems from different vendors are used to accommodate these business processes and maintaining compatability among these systems is becoming increasingly costly and difficult to maintain. No assurance can be made that the Company 12 will avoid system failures or that vendors will not discontinue their support of each such system, any of which would result in a costly and significant disruption to the Company's business. SOME OF OUR PRODUCTS MAY BE SUBJECT TO PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS WHICH COULD BE COSTLY TO RESOLVE AND AFFECT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. There can be no assurance that we will not be subject to third-party claims in connection with our products or that any indemnification or insurance available to us will be adequate to protect us from liability. A product liability claim, product recall or other claim, as well as any claims for uninsured liabilities or in excess of insured liabilities, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. ENACTED CHANGES IN THE SECURITIES LAWS AND REGULATIONS HAVE AND ARE LIKELY TO CONTINUE TO INCREASE OUR COSTS. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 has required changes in some of our corporate governance, securities disclosure and compliance practices. In response to the requirements of that Act, the Securities Exchange Commission ("SEC") and NASDAQ Exchange have promulgated new rules. Compliance with these new rules has increased our legal and financial and accounting costs, and we expect these increased costs to continue indefinitely. We also expect these developments to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and these developments may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors or qualified executive officers. OUR SALES IN INTERNATIONAL MARKETS ARE SUBJECT TO A VARIETY OF LAWS AND POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC RISKS THAT MAY ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR SALES AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS IN CERTAIN REGIONS. Our ability to capitalize on growth in new international markets and to maintain the current level of operations in our existing international markets is subject to risks associated with international sales operations. These include: - changes in currency exchange rates which impact the price to international consumers; - the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations; - unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and - the difficulties associated with promoting products in unfamiliar cultures. We are also subject to general, political, economic and regulatory risks in connection with our international sales operations, including: - political instability; - changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; - general economic fluctuations in specific countries or markets; and - changes in regulatory schemes. Any of the above mentioned factors could adversely affect our sales and results of operations in international markets. WE MUST RECRUIT AND RETAIN KEY EMPLOYEES IN ORDER TO BE SUCCESSFUL. Our continued success depends on the services of our key executive, sales and marketing and technical employees. The loss of the services of these personnel, or our inability to attract and retain other qualified management, sales and marketing, and technical employees, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The Company does not have Agreements with key personnel wherein such personnel agree not to compete with the Company and ancillary consideration. Our success also depends in part on our ability to attract, hire, train, retain, and motivate qualified personnel, with appropriate levels of managerial and technical capabilities. Our business generally requires a significant level of expertise to effectively develop and market our products and services. We have at times experienced, and continue to experience, difficulty in 13 recruiting qualified personnel. We believe that the pool of potential applicants with such requisite expertise is limited. Recruiting qualified personnel is an intensely competitive and time-consuming process. Such competition has resulted in demands for increased compensation from qualified applicants. Due to such competition, we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, turnover in personnel. We cannot ensure that we will be successful in attracting and retaining the personnel required to conduct and expand our operations successfully. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if we were unable to attract, hire, train, retain, and motivate qualified personnel. IF WE DO NOT INTRODUCE SUCCESSFUL NEW PRODUCTS AND SERVICES IN A TIMELY MANNER, OUR PRODUCTS AND SERVICES WILL BECOME OBSOLETE, AND OUR OPERATING RESULTS WILL SUFFER. We generally sell our products in industries that are characterized by rapid technological changes, frequent new product and service introductions and changing industry standards. In addition, many of the markets in which we operate are seasonal and cyclical. Without the timely introduction of new products, services and enhancements, our products and services will become technologically obsolete over time, in which case our revenue and operating results would suffer. The success of our new products and services will depend on several factors, including our ability to: - properly identify customer needs; - innovate and develop new technologies, services and applications; - successfully commercialize new technologies in a timely manner; - manufacture and deliver our products in sufficient volumes on time; - differentiate our offerings from our competitors' offerings; - price our products competitively; - anticipate our competitors' development of new products, services or technological innovations; and - control product quality in our manufacturing process. WE ARE SUBJECT TO LAWS AND REGULATIONS GOVERNING GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS, AND FAILURE TO ADDRESS THESE LAWS AND REGULATIONS OR COMPLY WITH GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS BY LEADING TO A REDUCTION IN REVENUE ASSOCIATED WITH THESE CUSTOMERS. We have agreements relating to the sale of our products to government entities and, as a result, we are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with the government. The laws governing government contracts differ from the laws governing private contracts. For example, many government contracts contain pricing terms and conditions that are not applicable to private contracts. We are also subject to investigation for compliance with the regulations governing government contracts. A failure to comply with these regulations might result in suspension of these contracts, or administrative penalties. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 