ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our businesses face a variety of financial, operating and market risks including the following: Economic and other market factors, including competitive pressures and changes in pricing policies, may adversely affect our future financial performance. Our businesses compete in the areas of pricing and service and face competitive pressures from various sources. Both our education and public transit industries are highly fragmented with several large companies and a substantial number of smaller, locally owned or government-owned operators. Our competitors in the education services industry can also include many school districts since most school districts operate their own school bus systems. Similarly, while the majority of the paratransit bus routes are operated by private entities (including several large companies), our public transit business also competes with many municipalities as most operate their own fixed route municipal bus services. Greyhound’s primary sources of competition for passengers are automobile travel, low cost air travel by both regional and national airlines and, in some markets, regional bus companies and trains. The automobile is the most significant form of competition to Greyhound. The out-of-pocket costs of operating an automobile are generally less expensive than bus travel, particularly for multiple persons traveling in a single car. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against these sources of competition or other competitive or external factors in order to maintain our existing business or to obtain new business. The ability of management to implement initiatives designed to increase operating efficiencies or improve results. We are implementing a number of initiatives to improve our operating performance. These initiatives are designed to allow us to continue to deliver the same quality product for which we are known, while addressing the price constraints set by our customers. The goal of education services has been to improve operating margins and more effectively manage capital employed. A number of areas have been identified where we believe costs can 14 Table of Contents be reduced through the centralization of administrative and financial services and improvements in our vehicle maintenance and management systems. We are also focusing on growth through acquisitions and increased charter services. Greyhound has initiatives underway to rejuvenate its brand and increase ridership by improving the passenger experience, updating buses and terminals and shifting the brand messaging away from low-price to one of a good travel experience at a reasonable price. Greyhound will continue to look for opportunities to contain costs and enhance revenue generated per mile by adjusting frequency and pricing to match demand patterns. These initiatives will take some time to fully implement. Additionally, we may be unable to effectively complete the implementation of these initiatives or the impact of the initiatives may be less than expected, which could result in lower than expected financial results. Costs and risks associated with litigation could materially affect our financial results. As discussed in Note 15 — “Legal proceedings” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company is a defendant in various lawsuits primarily involving personal injury, property damage, environmental or employment related claims. Some of these actions are covered to varying degrees by insurance policies. Based on known claims and our historical claims payout pattern we are not aware of any proceeding either threatened or pending against us that would have a material adverse effect on the Company, although the potential for such litigation to arise in the future exists. Changes in interpretations of existing, or the adoption of new, legislation, regulations or other laws could adversely affect our operations. Our businesses are subject to numerous laws regulating safety procedures, equipment specifications, employment requirements, environmental procedures, insurance coverage and other operating issues. These laws are constantly subject to change. The costs associated with complying with the adoption of new legislation, regulations or other laws could adversely affect our results of operations. Rising labor costs and actions taken by organized labor unions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Labor related costs represent over 50% of our operating expenses. Labor shortages, or low unemployment rates, could hinder our ability to recruit and maintain qualified employees leading to higher than expected increases in employee compensation. We may also be subjected to a continuation of the rapid rise in healthcare costs. Currently, the existence of many local union contracts limits the impact of any individual labor disruption on our education services operations. However, a coalition of labor unions has been formed that is focusing on organizing service workers in a number of industries, including student transportation. If this coalition were to successfully organize a large portion of our education services work force, we could experience increased operating costs or possibly significant disruption of operations, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Greyhound operations have agreements with a number of unions. The largest agreement, with the ATU, expiring on January 31, 2007, covers 84% of Greyhound’s U.S. drivers and 45% of Greyhound’s maintenance employees. There is no assurance that we will be able to successfully negotiate an agreement with the ATU beyond the current expiration date. If we are unable to extend this agreement, we could experience a significant disruption of operations and increased operating costs in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Rising fuel costs or potential shortages could have a material adverse affect on our business. Fuel costs constitute a significant portion of our expenses. Fuel costs have increased to 8.0% of our revenue for 2006 from 6.6% for 2005 and 5.4% for 2004. Fuel prices and supplies are influenced significantly by international, political and economic circumstances as well as naturally occurring disasters. If a fuel supply shortage were to arise from OPEC production curtailments, a disruption of oil imports or refining capacity due to natural disaster or otherwise, higher fuel prices and price increases could materially affect our operating results. Changes in estimated insurance reserves could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Accident claims and insurance expenses are key components of our cost structure. Insurance reserves are established for estimates of losses that we will ultimately incur on claims that have been reported but not paid and claims that have been incurred but not reported. These reserves are based upon actuarial valuations that are periodically prepared by our outside actuaries. The actuarial valuations consider a number of factors, including historical claim payment patterns and changes in case reserves, the assumed rate of increase in healthcare costs and property damage repairs and ultimate court awards. Historical experience and recent trends in the historical experience are the most significant factors in the determination of these reserves. Given the magnitude of the claims involved and the length of time until the ultimate cost is known, the use of any estimation technique in this area is inherently sensitive. Accordingly, our recorded reserves could differ from our ultimate costs related to these claims due to changes in our accident reporting, claims payment and settlement practices or claims reserve practices, as well as differences between assumed and future cost increases. Terrorism and other acts of violence may have a material adverse effect on our business. Terrorist acts and public concerns about potential attacks, including changes in the Homeland Security threat levels, could adversely affect demand for our services. Additionally, it is possible that the Transportation Security Administration could mandate security procedures that exceed the levels currently provided, further increasing costs. As a result, terrorism and other acts of violence, and any resulting economic downturn, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our Greyhound business is dependent on peak travel periods. Greyhound’s passenger service is seasonal in nature and generally follows the pattern of the travel industry as a whole, with peaks during the summer months and the holiday periods. This results in a disproportionate amount of Greyhound’s annual cash flows being generated during the peak travel periods. Therefore, an event that adversely affects ridership during any of these peak periods could have a material adverse effect on Greyhound’s results of operations. Pension funding requirements could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The Company sponsors several defined benefit pension plans, primarily within our Greyhound operations. It is the Company’s policy to fund the minimum required contribution, which for fiscal 2007 will be $15.8 million. Based upon current regulations and plan asset values at August 31, 2006, and assuming annual investment returns of 6%, the Company does not anticipate any significant increase in our minimum funding requirements in the near future. However, there is no assurance that we will be able to earn the assumed rate of return, that new 16 Table of Contents regulations will not prescribe changes in the funding formula, or that there will be market driven changes in discount rates that would result in the Company being required to make increased contributions in the future which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Other The risks described above are not the only risks that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or risks and uncertainties we currently view as immaterial or do not reasonably anticipate occurring, may also impair our business operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 