ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS Risk factors may affect our future business and results. The matters discussed below could cause our future results to materially differ from past results or those described in forward-looking statements and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. Risks Related to Historical Losses, Financial Condition and Substantial Indebtedness We have incurred significant net losses in recent fiscal periods, including $89 million for the year ended May 31, 2007, $101 million for the year ended May 31, 2006 and $196 million for year ended May 31, 2005, and we may not be able to return to profitability. We cannot provide assurance that we will return to profitability. While we continue to take steps designed to improve our results of operations, we have incurred significant net losses in recent periods. We face a number of challenges that have affected our operating results during the current and past several fiscal years. Specifically, we have experienced, and may continue to experience, the following, particularly in our SCN segment: • declining sales due to price competition and reduced incoming order rate; • operating expenses that, as a percentage of sales, have exceeded our desired financial model; • management changes; • disruptions and expenses resulting from our workforce reductions, management changes and employee attrition; • risk of increased excess and obsolete inventories; and • interest expense resulting from our senior secured loan. If we cannot overcome these challenges, reduce our expenses and/or increase our revenue, we may not become profitable. We may not be able to compensate for lower sales or unexpected cash outlays with cost reductions sufficient to generate positive net income or cash flow. If we do not increase our sales, we may need to further reduce costs in order to achieve profitability. As we have implemented significant cost reduction programs over the last several years, it may be difficult to make significant further cost reductions without in turn reducing our sales. If we are not able to effectively reduce our costs and expenses, particularly in our SCN segment, we may not be able to generate positive net income. If we continue to experience negative cash flow from operations from our SCN segment over a prolonged period of time or if we suffer unexpected cash outflows, our liquidity and ability to operate our business effectively could be adversely affected. We are unable to predict the exact amount of increased sales and/or cost reductions required for us to generate positive net income because it is difficult to predict the amount of our future sales and gross margins. Moreover, the amount of our future sales depends, in part, on future economic and market conditions, which are difficult to forecast accurately. 17 Table of Contents Efforts to reduce operating expenses have involved, and could involve further, workforce reductions, closure of offices and sales or discontinuation of businesses, leading to reduced sales and other disruptions in our business; if these efforts are not successful, we may experience higher expenses than we desire. Our operating expenses as a percent of sales continue to be higher than our desired long-term financial model. We have taken, and will continue to take, actions to reduce these expenses. For example, in June 2006 we announced a restructuring plan which focused on reducing components of our SCN operating segment cost structure, including the closure of certain facilities, a reduction in workforce and focused sales, marketing and services efforts. Such actions have and may in the future include integration of businesses and regions, reductions in our workforce, closure of facilities, relocation of functions and activities to lower cost locations, the sale or discontinuation of businesses, changes or modifications in information technology systems or applications, or process reengineering. As a result of these actions, the employment of some employees with critical skills may be terminated and other employees have, and may in the future, leave our company voluntarily due to the uncertainties associated with our business environment and their job security. In addition, reductions in overall staffing levels could make it more difficult for us to sustain historic sales levels, to achieve our growth objectives, to adhere to our preferred business practices and to address all of our legal and regulatory obligations in an effective manner, which could, in turn, ultimately lead to missed business opportunities, higher operating costs or penalties. In addition, we may choose to reinvest some or all of our realized cost savings in future growth opportunities or in our H3C integration efforts. Any of these events or occurrences, including the failure to succeed in achieving net cost savings, will likely cause our expense levels to continue to be at levels above our desired model, which, in turn, could result in a material adverse impact on our ability to become profitable (and, if we become profitable, to sustain such profitability). Our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial condition; and the related debt service obligations may adversely affect our cash flow and ability to invest in and grow our businesses. We now have, and for the foreseeable future will continue to have, a significant amount of indebtedness. As of May 31, 2007, our total debt balance was $430 million, of which $94 million was classified as a current liability. These amounts represent borrowing under a senior secured loan incurred to finance a portion of the purchase price for the March 2007 acquisition of the remaining 49 percent equity interest in H3C. In addition, despite current debt levels, the terms of our indebtedness allow us or our subsidiaries to incur more debt, subject to certain limitations. While our senior secured loan is outstanding, we will have annual debt service obligations (interest and principal) of between approximately $48 million and $172 million. The interest rate on this loan is floating based on the LIBOR rate; accordingly, if the LIBOR rate is increased, these amounts could be higher. The maturity date on this loan is September 28, 2012. We intend to fulfill our debt service obligations primarily from cash generated by our H3C segment operations, if any, and, to the extent necessary, from its existing cash and investments. Because we anticipate that a substantial portion of the cash generated by our operations will be used to service this loan during its term, such funds will not be available to use in future operations, or investing in our businesses. Further, a significant portion of the excess cash flow generated by our H3C segment, if any, must be used annually to prepay principal on the loan. The foregoing may adversely impact our ability to expand our businesses or make other investments. In addition, if we are unable to generate sufficient cash to meet these obligations and must instead use our existing cash or investments at our H3C or SCN segments, we may have to reduce, curtail or terminate other activities of our businesses. Our indebtedness could have significant negative consequences to us. For example, it could: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing; • require the dedication of a substantial portion of any cash flow from operations to the payment of principal of, and interest on, our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of such cash flow to fund growth, working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to our competitors with less debt. 18 Table of Contents The restrictions imposed by the terms of our senior secured loan facility could adversely impact our ability to invest in and grow our H3C business. Covenants in the agreements governing our senior secured loan materially restrict our H3C operations, including H3C’s ability to incur debt, pay dividends, make certain investments and payments, make acquisitions of other businesses and encumber or dispose of assets. These negative covenants restrict our flexibility in operating our H3C business. The agreements also impose affirmative covenants, including financial reporting obligations and compliance with law. In addition, in the event our H3C segment’s financial results do not meet our plans, the failure to comply with the financial covenants contained in the loan agreements could lead to a default if we are unable to amend such financial covenants. Our lenders may attempt to call defaults for violations of financial covenants (or other items, even if the underlying financial performance of H3C is satisfactory) in an effort to extract waiver or consent fees from us or to force a refinancing. A default and acceleration under one debt instrument or other contract may also trigger cross-acceleration under other debt instruments or other agreements, if any. An event of default, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on us because the lenders will be able to accelerate all outstanding amounts under the loan, foreclose on the collateral (which consists primarily of the assets of our H3C segment and could involve the lenders taking control over our H3C segment), and/or require 3Com Corporation, 3Com Holdings Limited or 3Com Technologies to use any of their substantial cash balances under their parental guarantees of this debt, if such guarantees have not yet been released by such time. Any of these actions would likely result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. An adverse change in the interest rates for our borrowings could adversely affect our financial condition. Interest to be paid by us on our senior secured loan is at an interest rate based on the LIBOR rate, plus an applicable margin. The published LIBOR rate is subject to change on a periodic basis. Recently, interest rates have trended upwards in major global financial markets. If these interest rate trends continue, this will result in increased interest rate expense as a result of higher LIBOR rates. Continued increases in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows, particularly if such increases are substantial. In addition, interest rate trends could affect global economic conditions. Rating downgrades may make it more expensive for us to refinance our debt or borrow money. Moody’s Investors Service has assigned a Ba2 rating to our senior secured loans at H3C and a Ba2 corporate family rating (stable outlook) to H3C Holdings Limited, the borrower. Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services assigned these loans a ‘BB’ rating (with a recovery rating of ‘1’) and assigned a BB- corporate credit rating (stable outlook) to H3C Holdings Limited. We are required to maintain a rating from each of these agencies during the term of the loan. These credit ratings are subject to change at the discretion of the rating agencies. If our credit ratings are downgraded, it would likely make it more expensive for us to refinance our existing loan or raise additional capital in the future. Such refinancing or capital raising may be on terms that may not be acceptable to us or otherwise not available. Any future adverse rating agency actions with respect to our ratings could have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities, our ability to compete for new business and our ability to access capital markets. Risks Related to H3C Segment and Dependence Thereon We are significantly dependent on our H3C segment; if H3C is not successful we will likely experience a material adverse impact to our business, business prospects and operating results. For the year ended May 31, 2007, H3C accounted for approximately 53 percent of our consolidated revenue and approximately 59 percent of our consolidated gross profit. H3C, which is domiciled in Hong Kong and has its principal operations in Hangzhou, China, is subject to all of the operational risks that normally arise for a technology company with global operations, including risks relating to research and development, manufacturing, sales, service, marketing, and corporate functions. Furthermore, H3C may not be successful in selling directly to Chinese customers, particularly those in the public sector, to the extent that such customers favor Chinese-owned competitors. Given the significance of H3C to our financial results, if H3C is not successful, our business will likely be adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents Sales from our H3C segment, and therefore in China, constitute a material portion of our total sales, and our business, financial condition and results of operations will to a significant degree be subject to economic, political and social events in the PRC. Our sales are significantly dependent on China, with approximately 46 percent of our consolidated revenues attributable to sales in China for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2007. We expect that a significant portion of our sales will continue to be derived from China for the foreseeable future. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations are to a significant degree subject to economic, political, legal and social developments and other events in China and surrounding areas. We discuss risks related to the PRC in further detail below. Our H3C segment is dependent on Huawei Technologies in several material respects, including as an important customer; should Huawei reduce its business with H3C, our business will likely be materially adversely affected. H3C derives a material portion of its sales from Huawei. In the twelve months ended May 31, 2007, Huawei accounted for approximately 35 percent of the revenue for our H3C segment and approximately 20 percent of our consolidated revenue. Huawei has no minimum purchase obligations with respect to H3C. Should Huawei reduce its business with H3C, H3C’s sales will suffer. On March 29, 2007 we acquired Huawei’s 49 percent interest in H3C for $882 million, giving us 100 percent ownership of H3C. Since Huawei is no longer an owner of H3C, it is possible that over time Huawei will purchase fewer products and services from H3C. We will need to continue to provide Huawei with products and services that satisfy its needs or we risk the possibility that it sources products from another vendor or internally develops these products. Further, we have and expect to continue to incur costs relating to transition matters with respect to support that Huawei previously provided for H3C when it was a shareholder. In addition, our China headquarters in Hangzhou, PRC is owned by Huawei and leased to us under a lease agreement that expires in December 2008; if we cannot renew this lease on terms favorable to us or find alternate facilities, we may suffer disruption in our H3C business. If any of the above risks occur, it will likely have an adverse impact on H3C’s sales and business performance. We must execute on a global strategy to leverage the benefits of our H3C acquisition, including integration activities we determine to undertake; if we are not successful in these efforts, our business will suffer. Our H3C acquisition presents unique challenges that we must address. We must successfully execute on managing our two business segments, and, to the extent we so choose, integrating these businesses, in order to fully benefit from this acquisition. As a joint venture owned by two separate companies, H3C operated in many ways independently from 3Com and Huawei. H3C’s business is largely based in the PRC and therefore significant cultural, language, business process and other differences exist between our SCN segment and H3C. In order to more closely manage and, to the extent we choose, integrate H3C, we expect to incur significant transition costs, including management retention costs and other related items. There may also be business disruption as management and other personnel focus on global management activities and integration matters. In order to realize the full benefits of this acquisition, we will need to manage our two business segments and employ strategies to leverage H3C. These efforts will require significant time and attention of management and other key employees at 3Com and H3C. Depending on the decisions we make on various strategic alternatives available to us, we may develop new or adjusted global design and development initiatives, go-to-market strategies, branding tactics or other strategies that take advantage and leverage H3C’s and SCN’s respective strengths. If we are not successful at transitioning effectively to full ownership of H3C, or if we do not execute on a global strategy that enables us to leverage the benefits of this acquisition, our business will be substantially harmed. Risks Related to Personnel Our success is dependent on continuing to hire and retain qualified managers and other personnel, including at our H3C segment and reducing senior management turnover in our SCN segment; if we are not successful in attracting and retaining these personnel, our business will suffer. Competition for qualified employees is intense. If we fail to attract, hire, or retain qualified personnel, our business will be harmed. We have experienced significant turnover in our senior management team in the last several years and we may continue to experience change at this level. If we cannot retain qualified senior managers, our business may not succeed. 20 Table of Contents The senior management team at H3C has been highly effective since H3C’s inception in 2003. We need to continue to incentivize and retain H3C management. We cannot be sure that we will be successful in these efforts. If we are not successful, our H3C business may suffer, which, in turn, will have a material adverse impact on our consolidated business. Many of these senior managers, and other key H3C employees, originally worked for Huawei prior to the inception of H3C. Subject to non-competition agreements with us (if applicable), these employees could return to work for Huawei at any time. Huawei is not subject to any non-solicitation obligations in respect of H3C or 3Com. Further, former Huawei employees that work for H3C may retain financial interests in Huawei. Risks Related to Competition If we do not respond effectively to increased competition caused by industry volatility and consolidation our business could be harmed. Our business could be seriously harmed if we do not compete effectively. We face competitive challenges that are likely to arise from a number of factors, including the following: • industry volatility resulting from rapid product development cycles; • increasing price competition due to maturation of basic networking technologies; • industry consolidation resulting in competitors with greater financial, marketing, and technical resources; and • the presence of existing competitors with greater financial resources together with the potential emergence of new competitors with lower cost structures and more competitive offerings. Our competition with Huawei in the enterprise networking market could have a material adverse effect on our sales and our results of operations; and after a contractual non-compete period expires, Huawei can increase its level of competition, which would likely materially and adversely affect our business. As Huawei expands its international operations, there could be increasing instances where we compete directly with Huawei in the enterprise networking market. As an OEM customer of H3C, Huawei has had, and continues to have, access to H3C’s products for resale. This access enhances Huawei’s current ability to compete directly with us. We could lose a competitive advantage in markets where we compete with Huawei, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our sales and overall results of operations. In addition, Huawei’s obligation not to offer or sell enterprise class, and small-to-medium size business (or SMB), routers and switches that are competitive with H3C’s products continues until September 29, 2008. After that date, we are subject to the risk of increased competition from Huawei, which could materially harm our results of operations. More specifically, after the non-compete period expires, Huawei may offer and sell its own enterprise or SMB routers and switches, or resell products that it sources from our competitors. Huawei is not prohibited from developing (but not offering or selling) competing products during the non-compete period. Huawei is also not prohibited from currently selling products in ancillary areas—such as security, voice over internet protocol and storage products—that are also sold today by H3C. Huawei’s incentive not to compete with H3C or us, and its incentive to assist H3C, may diminish now that Huawei does not own any interest in H3C. In addition, Huawei maintains a strong presence within China and the Asia Pacific region and has significant resources with which to compete within the networking industry, including the assets of Harbour Networks, a China-based competitor of H3C. We cannot predict whether Huawei will compete with us. If competition from Huawei increases, our business will likely suffer. Finally, if any of H3C’s senior managers, and other key H3C employees that originally worked for Huawei prior to the inception of H3C, return to work for Huawei, the competitive risks discussed above may be heightened. Subject to non-competition agreements with us (if applicable), these employees could return to work for Huawei at any time. Huawei is not subject to any non-solicitation obligations in respect of H3C or 3Com. Further, former Huawei employees that work for H3C may retain financial interests in Huawei. 21 Table of Contents Risks Related to Business and Technology Strategy We may not be successful at identifying and responding to new and emerging market and product opportunities, or at responding quickly enough to technologies or markets that are in decline. The markets in which we compete are characterized by rapid technology transitions and short product life cycles. Therefore, our success depends on our ability to do the following: • identify new market and product opportunities; • predict which technologies and markets will see declining demand; • develop and introduce new products and solutions in a timely manner; • gain market acceptance of new products and solutions, particularly in targeted emerging markets; and • rapidly and efficiently transition our customers from older to newer enterprise networking technologies. Our financial position or results of operations could suffer if we are not successful in achieving these goals. For example, our business would suffer if any of the following occurs: • there is a delay in introducing new products; • we lose certain channels of distribution or key partners; • our products do not satisfy customers in terms of features, functionality or quality; or • our products cost more to produce than we expect. Because we will continue to rely on original design manufacturers to assist in product design of some of our products, we may not be able to respond to emerging technology trends through the design and production of new products as well as if we were working independently. We expect to utilize strategic relationships and other alliances as key elements in our strategy. If we are not successful in forming desired ventures and alliances or if such ventures and alliances are not successful, our ability to achieve our growth and profitability goals could be adversely affected. We have announced alliances with third parties, such as IBM and Trapeze Networks. In the future, we expect to evaluate other possible strategic relationships, including joint ventures and other types of alliances, and we may increase our reliance on such strategic relationships to broaden our sales channels, complement internal development of new technologies and enhancement of existing products, and exploit perceived market opportunities. If we fail to form the number and quality of strategic relationships that we desire, or if such strategic relationships are not successful, we could suffer missed market opportunities, channel conflicts, delays in product development or delivery, or other operational difficulties. Further, if third parties acquire our strategic partners or if our competitors enter into successful strategic relationships, we may face increased competition. Any of these difficulties could have an adverse effect on our future sales and results of operations. Our strategy of outsourcing functions and operations may fail to reduce cost and may disrupt our operations. We continue to look for ways to decrease cost and improve efficiency by contracting with other companies to perform functions or operations that, in the past, we have performed ourselves. We have outsourced the majority of our manufacturing and logistics for our SCN products. We now rely on outside vendors to meet the majority of our manufacturing needs as well as a significant portion of our IT needs for the SCN segment. Additionally, we outsource certain functions for technical support and product return services. We are currently transitioning our outsourced customer service and support functions from a single vendor to a combination of vendors complemented by internal sources. During this transition period, and under our new support model, if we do not provide our customers with a high quality of service, we risk losing customers and/or increasing our support costs. To achieve future cost savings or operational benefits, we may expand our outsourcing activities to cover additional services which we believe a third party may be able to provide in a more efficient or effective manner than we could do internally ourselves. 22 Table of Contents Although we believe that outsourcing will result in lower costs and increased efficiencies, this may not be the case. Because these third parties may not be as responsive to our needs as we would be ourselves, outsourcing increases the risk of disruption to our operations. In addition, our agreements with these third parties sometimes include substantial penalties for terminating such agreements early or failing to maintain minimum service levels. Because we cannot always predict how long we will need the services or how much of the services we will use, we may have to pay these penalties or incur costs if our business conditions change. Our reliance on industry standards, technological change in the marketplace, and new product initiatives may cause our sales to fluctuate or decline. The enterprise networking industry in which we compete is characterized by rapid changes in technology and customer requirements and evolving industry standards. As a result, our success depends on: • the convergence of technologies, such as voice, data and video on single, secure networks; • the timely adoption and market acceptance of industry standards, and timely resolution of conflicting U.S. and international industry standards; and • our ability to influence the development of emerging industry standards and to introduce new and enhanced products that are compatible with such standards. Slow market acceptance of new technologies, products, or industry standards could adversely affect our sales or overall results of operations. In addition, if our technology is not included in an industry standard on a timely basis or if we fail to achieve timely certification of compliance to industry standards for our products, our sales of such products or our overall results of operations could be adversely affected. We focus on enterprise networking, and our results of operations may fluctuate based on factors related entirely to conditions in this market. Our focus on enterprise networking may cause increased sensitivity to the business risks associated specifically with the enterprise networking market and our ability to execute successfully on our strategies to provide superior solutions for larger and multi-site enterprise environments. To be successful in the enterprise networking market, we will need to be perceived by decision making officers of large enterprises as committed for the long-term to the high-end networking business. Also, expansion of sales to large enterprises may be disruptive in a variety of ways, such as adding larger systems integrators that may raise channel conflict issues with existing distributors, or a perception of diminished focus on the small and medium enterprise market. Risks Related to Operations and Distribution Channels A significant portion of our SCN sales is derived from a small number of distributors. If any of these partners reduces its business with us, our business could be seriously harmed. We distribute many of our products through two-tier distribution channels that include distributors, systems integrators and value added resellers, or VARs. A significant portion of our sales is concentrated among a few distributors; our two largest distributors accounted for a combined 35 percent of SCN sales and 18 percent of our consolidated revenue for the year ended May 31, 2007 and a combined 35 percent of SCN sales and 30 percent of our consolidated revenue for the year ended May 31, 2006. If either of these distributors reduces its business with us, our sales and overall results of operations could be adversely affected. We depend on distributors who maintain inventories of our products. If the distributors reduce their inventories of our products, our sales could be adversely affected. We work closely with our distributors to monitor channel inventory levels and ensure that appropriate levels of products are available to resellers and end users. Our target range for channel inventory levels is between three and five weeks of supply on hand at our distributors. Partners with a below-average inventory level may incur “stock outs” that would adversely impact our sales. Our distribution agreements typically provide that our distributors may cancel their orders on short notice with little or no penalty. If our channel partners reduce their levels of inventory of our products, our sales would be negatively impacted during the period of change. 23 Table of Contents If we are unable to successfully develop relationships with system integrators, service providers, and enterprise VARs, our sales may be negatively affected. As part of our sales strategy, we are targeting system integrators, or SIs, service providers, or SPs, and enterprise value-added resellers, or eVARs. In addition to specialized technical expertise, SIs, SPs and eVARs typically offer sophisticated services capabilities that are frequently desired by larger enterprise customers. In order to expand our distribution channel to include resellers with such capabilities, we must be able to provide effective support to these resellers. If our sales, marketing or services capabilities are not sufficiently robust to provide effective support to such SIs, SPs, and eVARs, we may not be successful in expanding our distribution model and current SI, SP, and eVAR partners may terminate their relationships with us, which would adversely impact our sales and overall results of operations. We may pursue acquisitions of other companies that, if not successful, could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. In the future, we may pursue acquisitions of companies to enhance our existing capabilities. There can be no assurances that acquisitions that we might consummate will be successful. If we pursue an acquisition but are not successful in completing it, or if we complete an acquisition but are not successful in integrating the acquired company’s technology, employees, products or operations successfully, our business, financial position or results of operations could be adversely affected. We may be unable to manage our supply chain successfully, which would adversely impact our sales, gross margin and profitability. Current business conditions and operational challenges in managing our supply chain affect our business in a number of ways: • in the past, some key components have had limited availability; • as integration of networking features on a reduced number of computer chips continues, we are increasingly facing competition from parties who are our suppliers; • our ability to accurately forecast demand is diminished; • our reliance on, and long-term arrangements with, third-party manufacturers places much of the supply chain process out of our direct control and heightens the need for accurate forecasting and reduces our ability to transition quickly to alternative supply chain strategies; and • we may experience disruptions to our logistics. Some of our suppliers are also our competitors. We cannot be certain that in the future our suppliers, particularly those who are also in active competition with us, will be able or willing to meet our demand for components in a timely and cost-effective manner. There has been a trend toward consolidation of vendors of electronic components. Our reliance on a smaller number of vendors and the inability to quickly switch vendors increases the risk of logistics disruptions, unfavorable price fluctuations, or disruptions in supply, particularly in a supply-constrained environment. Supplies of certain key components have become tighter as industry demand for such components has increased. If the resulting increase in component costs and time necessary to obtain these components persists, we may experience an adverse impact to gross margin. If overall demand for our products or the mix of demand for our products is significantly different from our expectations, we may face inadequate or excess component supply or inadequate or excess manufacturing capacity. This would result in orders for products that could not be manufactured in a timely manner, or a buildup of inventory that could not easily be sold. Either of these situations could adversely affect our market share, sales, and results of operations or financial position. 24 Table of Contents Our strategies to outsource the majority of our manufacturing requirements to contract manufacturers may not result in meeting our cost, quality or performance standards. The inability of any contract manufacturer to meet our cost, quality or performance standards could adversely affect our sales and overall results from operations. The cost, quality, performance, and availability of contract manufacturing operations are and will be essential to the successful production and sale of many of our products. We may not be able to provide contract manufacturers with product volumes that are high enough to achieve sufficient cost savings. If shipments fall below forecasted levels, we may incur increased costs or be required to take ownership of inventory. In addition, a significant component of maintaining cost competitiveness is the ability of our contract manufacturers to adjust their own costs and manufacturing infrastructure to compensate for possible adverse exchange rate movements. To the extent that the contract manufacturers are unable to do so, and we are unable to procure alternative product supplies, then our own competitiveness and results of operations could be adversely impacted. In portions of our business we have implemented a program with our manufacturing partners to ship products directly from regional shipping centers to customers. Through this program, we are relying on these partners to fill customer orders in a timely manner. This program may not yield the efficiencies that we expect, which would negatively impact our results of operations. Any disruptions to on-time delivery to customers would adversely impact our sales and overall results of operations. If we fail to adequately evolve our financial and managerial control and reporting systems and processes, including the management of our H3C segment, our ability to manage and grow our business will be negatively affected. Our ability to successfully offer our products and implement our business plan in a rapidly evolving market depends upon an effective planning and management process. We will need to continue to improve our financial and managerial control and our reporting systems and procedures in order to manage our business effectively in the future. If we fail to implement improved systems and processes, our ability to manage our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. For example, now that we own all of H3C, we are spending additional time, resources and capital to manage its business, operations and financial results. If we are not able to successfully manage H3C, our business results could be adversely affected. Risks Related to our Operations in the People’s Republic of China China’s governmental and regulatory reforms and changing economic environment may impact our ability to do business in China. As a result of the historic reforms of the past several decades, multiple government bodies are involved in regulating and administrating affairs in the enterprise networking industry in China. These government agencies have broad discretion and authority over all aspects of the networking, telecommunications and information technology industry in China; accordingly their decisions may impact our ability to do business in China. Any of the following changes in China’s political and economic conditions and governmental policies could have a substantial impact on our business: • the promulgation of new laws and regulations and the interpretation of those laws and regulations; • enforcement and application of rules and regulations by the Chinese government; • the introduction of measures to control inflation or stimulate growth; or • any actions that limit our ability to develop, manufacture, import or sell our products in China, or to finance and operate our business in China. If China’s entry into the World Trade Organization, or the WTO, results in increased competition or has a negative impact on China’s economy, our business could suffer. Since early 2004, the Chinese government has implemented certain measures to control the pace of economic growth. Such measures may cause a decrease in the level of economic activity in China, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 25 Table of Contents Uncertainties with respect to the Chinese legal system may adversely affect us. We conduct our business in China primarily through H3C, a Hong Kong entity which in turn owns several Chinese entities. These entities are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China. In addition, there are uncertainties regarding the interpretation and enforcement of laws, rules and policies in China. Because many laws and regulations are relatively new and the Chinese legal system is still evolving, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform. Moreover, the interpretation of statutes and regulations may be subject to government policies reflecting domestic political changes. Finally, enforcement of existing laws or contracts based on existing law may be uncertain, and it may be difficult to obtain swift and equitable enforcement, or to obtain enforcement of a judgment by a court of another jurisdiction. Any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management’s attention. If PRC tax benefits available to H3C are reduced or repealed, our business could suffer. If the PRC government changes, removes or withdraws any of the tax benefits currently enjoyed by our H3C segment, it will likely adversely affect our results of operations. For example, H3C enjoys preferential income tax rates due to its status as a newly-formed high technology enterprise headquartered within a high tech zone in Hangzhou, PRC. In March 2007 the People’s National Congress in the PRC approved a new tax reform law, effective on January 1, 2008, the broad intention of which is to align the tax regime applicable to foreign owned Chinese enterprises with that applicable to domestically-owned Chinese enterprises. If applicable to H3C, the effect of this new law would be to increase the statutory income tax rate for H3C in the PRC. It is proposed that some high-tech enterprises will be exempt from the increased rate; although much of the detail of the new law is yet to be issued in regulations, we currently believe that we will continue to qualify for the foreseeable future as a high-tech enterprise entitled to our existing tax concessions. If H3C is not exempt from this new law, other tax benefits currently enjoyed by H3C are withdrawn or reduced, or new taxes are introduced which have not applied to H3C before, there would likely be a resulting increase to H3C’s statutory tax rates in the PRC. Increases to tax rates in the PRC, where our H3C segment is profitable, could adversely affect our results of operations. H3C is subject to restrictions on paying dividends and making other payments to us. Chinese regulations currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits, as determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. H3C does business primarily through a Chinese entity that is required to set aside a portion of its after-tax profits – currently 10 percent — according to Chinese accounting standards and regulations to fund certain reserves. The Chinese government also imposes controls on the conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies and the remittance of currencies out of China. We may experience difficulties in completing the administrative procedures necessary to obtain and remit foreign currency. These restrictions may in the future limit our ability to receive dividends or repatriate funds from H3C. In addition, the credit agreement governing our senior secured loan also imposes significant restrictions on H3C’s ability to dividend or make other payments to our SCN segment. We are subject to risks relating to currency rate fluctuations and exchange controls and we do not hedge this risk in China. A significant portion of our sales and a portion of our costs are made in China and denominated in Renminbi. At the same time, our senior secured bank loan – which we intend to service and repay primarily through cash flow from H3C’s PRC operations – is denominated in US dollars. In July 2005, China uncoupled the Renminbi from the U.S. dollar and let it float in a narrow band against a basket of foreign currencies. The move initially revalued the Renminbi by 2.1 percent against the U.S. dollar; however, it is uncertain what further adjustments may be made in the future. The Renminbi-U.S. dollar exchange rate could float, and the Renminbi could appreciate or depreciate relative to the U.S. dollar. Any movement of the Renminbi may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues, operating results and financial position, and may make it more difficult for us to service our U.S. dollar-denominated senior secured bank loan. We do not currently hedge the currency risk in H3C through foreign exchange forward contracts or otherwise and China employs currency controls restricting Renminbi conversion, limiting our ability to engage in currency hedging activities in China. Various foreign exchange controls are applicable to us in China, and such restrictions may in the future make it difficult for H3C or us to repatriate earnings, which could have an adverse effect on our cash flows and financial position. 26 Table of Contents Risks Related to Intellectual Property If our products contain undetected software or hardware errors, we could incur significant unexpected expenses and could lose sales. High technology products sometimes contain undetected software or hardware errors when new products or new versions or updates of existing products are released to the marketplace. Undetected errors could result in higher than expected warranty and service costs and expenses, and the recording of an accrual for related anticipated expenses. From time to time, such errors or component failures could be found in new or existing products after the commencement of commercial shipments. These problems may have a material adverse effect on our business by causing us to incur significant warranty and repair costs, diverting the attention of our engineering personnel from new product development efforts, delaying the recognition of revenue and causing significant customer relations problems. Further, if products are not accepted by customers due to such defects, and such returns exceed the amount we accrued for defect returns based on our historical experience, our operating results would be adversely affected. Our products must successfully interoperate with products from other vendors. As a result, when problems occur in a network, it may be difficult to identify the sources of these problems. The occurrence of hardware and software errors, whether or not caused by our products, could result in the delay or loss of market acceptance of our products and any necessary revisions may cause us to incur significant expenses. The occurrence of any such problems would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We may need to engage in complex and costly litigation in order to protect, maintain or enforce our intellectual property rights; in some jurisdictions, such as China, our rights may not be as strong as the rights we enjoy in the U.S. Whether we are defending the assertion of intellectual property rights against us, or asserting our intellectual property rights against others, intellectual property litigation can be complex, costly, protracted, and highly disruptive to business operations because it may divert the attention and energies of management and key technical personnel. Further, plaintiffs in intellectual property cases often seek injunctive relief and the measures of damages in intellectual property litigation are complex and often subjective and uncertain. In addition, such litigation may subject us to counterclaims or other retaliatory actions that could increase its costs, complexity, uncertainty and disruption to the business. Thus, the existence of this type of litigation, or any adverse determinations related to such litigation, could subject us to significant liabilities and costs. Any one of these factors could adversely affect our sales, gross margin, overall results of operations, cash flow or financial position. In addition, the legal systems of many foreign countries do not protect or honor intellectual property rights to the same extent as the legal system of the United States. For example, in China, the legal system in general, and the intellectual property regime in particular, are still in the development stage. It may be very difficult, time-consuming and costly for us to attempt to enforce our intellectual property rights, and those of H3C, in these jurisdictions. We may not be able to defend ourselves successfully against claims that we are infringing the intellectual property rights of others. Many of our competitors, such as telecommunications, networking, and computer equipment manufacturers, have large intellectual property portfolios, including patents that may cover technologies that are relevant to our business. In addition, many smaller companies, universities, and individual inventors have obtained or applied for patents in areas of technology that may relate to our business. The industry continues to be aggressive in assertion, licensing, and litigation of patents and other intellectual property rights. 27 Table of Contents In the course of our business, we receive claims of infringement or otherwise become aware of potentially relevant patents or other intellectual property rights held by other parties. We evaluate the validity and applicability of these intellectual property rights, and determine in each case whether to negotiate licenses or cross-licenses to incorporate or use the proprietary technologies, protocols, or specifications in our products, and whether we have rights of indemnification against our suppliers, strategic partners or licensors. If we are unable to obtain and maintain licenses on favorable terms for intellectual property rights required for the manufacture, sale, and use of our products, particularly those that must comply with industry standard protocols and specifications to be commercially viable, our financial position or results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, if we are alleged to infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we could be required to seek licenses from others or be prevented from manufacturing or selling our products, which could cause disruptions to our operations or the markets in which we compete. Finally, even if we have indemnification rights in respect of such allegations of infringement from our suppliers, strategic partners or licensors, we may not be able to recover our losses under those indemnity rights. OSN, our new open source strategy, subjects us to additional intellectual property risks, such as less control over development of certain technology that forms a part of this strategy and a higher likelihood of litigation. We recently announced Open Services Networking, or OSN, a new networking strategy that uses open source software, or OSS, licenses. The underlying source code for OSS is generally made available to the general public with either relaxed or no intellectual property restrictions. This allows users to create user-generated software content through either incremental individual effort, or collaboration. The use of OSS means that for such software we do not exercise control over many aspects of the development of the open source technology. For example, the vast majority of programmers developing OSS used by us are neither our employees nor contractors. Therefore, we cannot predict whether further developments and enhancements to OSS selected by us would be available. Furthermore, rival OSS applications often compete for market share. Should our choice of application fail to compete favorably, its OSS development may wane or stop. In addition, OSS has few technological barriers to entry by new competitors and it may be relatively easy for new competitors, who have greater resources than us, to enter our markets and compete with us. Also, because OSS is often compiled from multiple components developed by numerous independent parties and usually comes “as is” and without indemnification, OSS is more vulnerable to third party intellectual property infringement claims. Finally, some of the more prominent OSS licenses, such as the GNU General Public License, are the subject of litigation. It is possible that a court could hold such licenses to be unenforceable or someone could assert a claim for proprietary rights in a program developed and distributed under them. Any ruling by a court that these licenses are not enforceable or that open source components of our product offerings may not be liberally copied, modified or distributed may have the effect of preventing us from selling or developing all or a portion of our products. If any of the foregoing occurred, it could cause a material adverse impact on our business. Risks Related to the Trading Market Fluctuations in our operating results and other factors may contribute to volatility in the market price of our stock. Historically, our stock price has experienced volatility. We expect that our stock price may continue to experience volatility in the future due to a variety of potential factors such as: • fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations and cash flow; • changes in our cash and equivalents and short term investment balances; • variations between our actual financial results and published analysts’ expectations; and • announcements by our competitors. In addition, over the past several years, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the stock prices of many technology companies. These factors, as well as general economic and political conditions or investors’ concerns regarding the credibility of corporate financial statements and the accounting profession, may have a material adverse affect on the market price of our stock in the future. 28 Table of Contents Risks Related to Anti-takeover Mechanisms We have various mechanisms in place to discourage takeover attempts, which may reduce or eliminate our stockholders’ ability to sell their shares for a premium in a change of control transaction. Various provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and of Delaware corporate law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control or takeover attempt of our company by a third party that is opposed by our management and board of directors. Public stockholders who might desire to participate in such a transaction may not have the opportunity to do so. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of public stockholders to benefit from a change of control or change in our management and board of directors. These provisions include: • no cumulative voting for directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; • control by our board of directors of the size of our board of directors and our classified board of directors; • prohibition on the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; • the ability of our board of directors to alter our bylaws without stockholder approval; • prohibition on the ability of stockholders to take actions by written consent; • advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by our stockholders at stockholder meetings; • certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws require the approval of holders of at least 662/3 percent of the voting power of all outstanding stock; and • the ability of our board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock with rights that are senior to those of our common stock. In addition, our board of directors has adopted a stockholder rights plan, the provisions of which could make it more difficult for a potential acquirer of 3Com to consummate an acquisition transaction. Also, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15 percent or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or consolidating with us. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 