ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS Risk factors may affect our future business and results. The matters discussed below could cause our future results to materially differ from past results or those described in forward-looking statements and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. We have incurred significant net losses in recent fiscal periods, including $101 million for the year ended May 31, 2006, $196 million for year ended May 31, 2005, and $349 million for year ended May 31, 2004, and we may not be able to return to profitability. Although we are taking steps designed to improve our results of operations, such as the restructuring we announced in June 2006, we cannot provide assurance that we will return to profitability. We have faced a number of challenges that have affected our operating results during the current and past several fiscal years. Specifically, we have experienced, and may continue to experience, the following, particularly in our SCN segment: 14 Table of Contents • declining sales due to price competition and reduced incoming order rate; • risk of increased excess and obsolete inventories; • excess facilities; • operating expenses that, as a percentage of sales, have exceeded our desired financial model; and • disruptions resulting from our workforce reductions and employee attrition. We focus primarily on enterprise networking, and our results of operations may fluctuate based on factors related entirely to conditions in this market. In fiscal 2004, we began focusing primarily on enterprise networking. This focus reflects a streamlined management and operating structure encompassing all of our operations. Our focus on enterprise networking may cause increased risk or volatility associated with decreased diversification of our business. There will be increased sensitivity to the business risks associated specifically with the enterprise networking market and our ability to execute successfully on our strategies to provide superior solutions for larger and multi-site enterprise environments. To be successful in the enterprise networking market, we will need to be perceived by decision making officers of large enterprises as committed for the long-term to the high-end networking business. Also, expansion of sales to large enterprises may be disruptive in a variety of ways, such as adding larger systems integrators that may raise channel conflict issues with existing distributors, or a perception of diminished focus on the small and medium enterprise market. If we do not respond effectively to increased competition caused by industry volatility and consolidation our business could be harmed. Our business could be seriously harmed if we do not compete effectively. We face competitive challenges that are likely to arise from a number of factors, including the following: • industry volatility resulting from rapid product development cycles; • increasing price competition due to maturation of basic networking technologies; • industry consolidation resulting in competitors with greater financial, marketing, and technical resources; and • the presence of existing competitors with greater financial resources together with the potential emergence of new competitors with lower cost structures and more competitive offerings. We may not be able to compensate for lower sales or unexpected cash outlays with cost reductions sufficient to generate positive net income or cash flow. Although we have implemented cost and expense reductions with the goal to achieve profitability, we may need to further reduce costs which may in turn reduce our sales. If we are not able to effectively reduce our costs and expenses, particularly in our SCN segment, we may not be able to generate positive net income or cash flow from operations. If we continue to experience negative cash flow from operations over a prolonged period of time or if we suffer unexpected cash outflows, our liquidity and ability to operate our business effectively could be adversely affected. We are unable to predict the exact amount of cost reductions required for us to generate positive net income or cash flow from operations because it is difficult to predict the amount of our future sales and gross margins. The amount of our future sales depends, in part, on future economic and market conditions, which are difficult to forecast accurately. Efforts to reduce operating expenses have involved, and could involve further, workforce reductions, closure of offices and sales or discontinuation of businesses, leading to reduced sales and other disruptions in our business. Our operating expenses as a percent of sales continue to be higher than our desired long-term financial model. We have taken, and will continue to take, actions to reduce these expenses. Such actions have and may in the future include reductions in our workforce, closure of facilities, relocation of functions and activities to lower cost locations, the sale or discontinuation of businesses, changes or modifications in IT systems or applications, or process reengineering. As a result of these actions, the employment of some employees with critical skills may be terminated and other employees have, and may in the future, leave our company voluntarily due to the uncertainties associated with our business environment and their job security. In addition, reductions in overall staffing levels could make it more difficult for us to sustain historic sales levels, to achieve our 15 Table of Contents growth objectives, to adhere to our preferred business practices and to address all of our legal and regulatory obligations in an effective manner, which could, in turn, ultimately lead to missed business opportunities, higher operating costs or penalties. We are significantly dependent on our H-3C joint venture in China and if H-3C is not successful, it could materially and adversely impact our business, business prospects and operating results. H-3C, which is domiciled in Hong Kong and has its principal operations in Hangzhou, China, is subject to all of the operational risks that normally arise for a technology company with global operations pertaining to research and development, manufacturing, sales, service, marketing, and corporate functions. Given the significance of H-3C to our results, if H-3C is not successful our business will likely be adversely affected. Our business, business prospects and operating results have significant dependencies upon product deliveries from H-3C and the results of our H-3C operating segment. In particular, our product development activities, product manufacturing and procurement of certain products, intellectual property and channel activities have become increasingly interdependent with those of H-3C. Sales from our H-3C joint venture and therefore China constitute a material portion of our total sales, and our business, financial condition and results of operations will to a significant degree be subject to economic, political and social events in China. We announced on March 23, 2006 that we have determined it is appropriate to consolidate our joint venture in China, H-3C, effective as of February 1, 2006. For the three months ended June 2, 2006, our pro forma consolidated sales were $304 million, assuming we had consolidated H-3C since the beginning of the period, of which $156 million, or approximately 51%, are attributable to H-3C. With the commencing of the consolidation of H-3C financial results, our sales are significantly dependent on China. We expect that a significant portion of our sales will be derived from China for the foreseeable future. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations are to a significant degree subject to economic, political, legal and social developments and other events in China and surrounding areas. Our China joint venture, H-3C, is dependent on Huawei, our co-owner in this venture, in several material respects, including as an important customer; should Huawei reduce its business with or operational assistance to H-3C, our business could be materially affected. H-3C derives a material portion of its sales from or through Huawei. Should Huawei reduce its business with H-3C, H-3C’s sales will suffer. Further, Huawei provides certain foreign office support platforms for H-3C. If Huawei ceases this support, international operations will be more burdensome and expensive for H-3C. Huawei also provides certain information technology, software licensing and rental of premises to H-3C. If we fail to adequately evolve our financial and managerial control and reporting systems and processes, including the management of our H-3C segment, our ability to manage and grow our business will be negatively affected. Our ability to successfully offer our products and implement our business plan in a rapidly evolving market depends upon an effective planning and management process. We will need to continue to improve our financial and managerial control and our reporting systems and procedures in order to manage our business effectively in the future. If we fail to implement improved systems and processes, our ability to manage our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. For example, now that we control and consolidate our joint venture in China, H-3C, we are spending additional time, resources and capital to manage its business, operations and financial results. We will need to adequately incentivize H-3C management and other key employees. We will also need to manage the multiple channels to our markets. If we are not able to successfully manage our H-3C venture, our business results could be adversely affected. We may not be able to complete or finance a transaction with Huawei to purchase additional interest in our joint venture, H-3C, on favorable terms or at all; if we cannot complete a transaction, our strategy to further invest in H-3C may not occur, we will be subject to the risks of the bid process described below and our business may suffer. On August 8, 2006, we announced that we will begin negotiations with Huawei for the purchase by us of an additional equity interest in H-3C. We currently own 51% of H-3C and Huawei owns 49%. Under the terms of our existing shareholders’ agreement, and as previously disclosed, we each have the right, commencing on and after November 15, 2006, to initiate a bid process to purchase the equity interest in H-3C held by the other. The negotiations are intended to result in an agreement 16 Table of Contents outside of the bid process. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to negotiate acceptable terms with Huawei or that the transaction will be consummated at all. In addition, any such transaction is subject to regulatory approval by the Chinese government and we cannot provide assurance that such approval will be granted. We may need to raise equity or debt capital in order to finance any such transaction, and such financing may not be available on terms acceptable to us. Any equity financing would be dilutive to our existing stockholders. Any debt financing would involve using cash generated from operations to service the interest and pay down the principal, diverting funds that might otherwise be invested in our businesses. We may also use existing cash to finance a portion of the consideration for any such transaction, which, if used, would reduce available cash on hand. If we cannot complete a transaction, the bid process risks described below would apply. If we cannot complete a transaction, our strategy to increase our investment in H-3C may not be available to us and our business may suffer as a result unless we employ successful alternative strategies. We, and our joint venture partner, Huawei, each have the right, starting in November 2006, to initiate a bid process to buy the other out of our China joint venture, H-3C; if Huawei wins the bid process, we will no longer be able to consolidate H-3C’s results and may, over time, lose the right to source and resell H-3C’s products. Starting in November 2006, Huawei and 3Com each can initiate a bid process to purchase the equity interest in H-3C owned by the other. Under the bid process, if one party makes a bid to buy out the other, the party receiving the bid offer must either accept that offer or make its own, higher, bid to buy out the other party. The bidding process would alternate until one party either accepts the other’s bid or fails to make a higher bid. If Huawei wins the bid process to buy out our equity ownership in H-3C, upon consummation of the closing of that transaction we will no longer be able consolidate H-3C’s results with ours. Our OEM agreement with H-3C, pursuant to which we source products from H-3C and resell them, has an initial five-year term ending November 2008. This agreement automatically renews for successive two-year terms unless a party gives the other party at least 180-days prior written notice that it does not wish to renew the agreement. Should Huawei win the bid process, it may cause H-3C to terminate its OEM agreement with us effective November 2008 or during one of the successive terms. Because we source networking products from H-3C for resale and such products are material to our success, if H-3C terminated its OEM agreement with us it would adversely impact our financial results. We may not be successful at identifying and responding to new and emerging market and product opportunities, or at responding quickly enough to technologies or markets that are in decline. The markets in which we compete are characterized by rapid technology transitions and short product life cycles. Therefore, our success depends on our ability to do the following: • identify new market and product opportunities; • predict which technologies and markets will see declining demand; • develop and introduce new products and solutions in a timely manner; • gain market acceptance of new products and solutions, particularly in targeted emerging markets; and • rapidly and efficiently transition our customers from older to newer enterprise networking technologies. Our financial position or results of operations could suffer if we are not successful in achieving these goals. For example, our business would suffer if any of the following occurs: • there is a delay in introducing new products; • we lose certain channels of distribution or key partners; • our products do not satisfy customers in terms of features, functionality or quality; or • our products cost more to produce than we expect. Because we will continue to source products from OEMs and from H-3C and rely on original design manufacturers to assist in product design, we may not be able to independently identify current product and technology trends or to respond to such trends through the design and production of new products as well as if we were working independently. Our success is dependent on continuing to hire and retain qualified managers and other personnel; if we are not successful in attracting and retaining these personnel, our business will suffer. Competition for qualified employees is intense. If we fail to attract, hire, or retain qualified personnel, our business will be harmed. We have experienced significant turnover in our management team in the last several years and we may continue to experience change at this level. If we cannot retain qualified senior managers, our business may not succeed. 17 Table of Contents We expect to utilize strategic relationships and other alliances as key elements in our strategy. If we are not successful in forming desired ventures and alliances or if such ventures and alliances are not successful, our ability to achieve our growth and profitability goals could be adversely affected. We have announced alliances with third parties, such as IBM, Trapeze Networks and Siemens Business Services. In the future, we expect to evaluate other possible strategic relationships, including joint ventures and other types of alliances, and we may increase our reliance on such strategic relationships to broaden our sales channels, complement internal development of new technologies and enhancement of existing products, and exploit perceived market opportunities. If we fail to form the number and quality of strategic relationships that we desire, or if such strategic relationships are not successful, we could suffer missed market opportunities, channel conflicts, delays in product development or delivery, or other operational difficulties. Further, if third parties acquire our strategic partners or if our competitors enter into successful strategic relationships, we may face increased competition. Any of these difficulties could have an adverse effect on our future sales and results of operations. Our strategy of outsourcing functions and operations may fail to reduce cost and may disrupt our operations. We continue to look for ways to decrease cost and improve efficiency by contracting with other companies to perform functions or operations that, in the past, we have performed ourselves. We have outsourced the majority of our manufacturing and logistics for our SCN products. We now rely on outside vendors to meet the majority of our manufacturing needs as well as a significant portion of our IT needs for the SCN segment. Additionally, we outsource certain functions to Siemens Business Services for technical support and RMA services. To achieve future cost savings or operational benefits, we may expand our outsourcing activities to cover additional services which we believe a third party may be able to provide in a more efficient or effective manner than we could do internally ourselves. Although we believe that outsourcing will result in lower costs and increased efficiencies, this may not be the case. Because these third parties may not be as responsive to our needs as we would be ourselves, outsourcing increases the risk of disruption to our operations. In addition, our agreements with these third parties sometimes include substantial penalties for terminating such agreements early or failing to maintain minimum service levels. Because we cannot always predict how long we will need the services or how much of the services we will use, we may have to pay these penalties or incur costs if our business conditions change. Our reliance on industry standards, technological change in the marketplace, and new product initiatives may cause our sales to fluctuate or decline. The enterprise networking industry in which we compete is characterized by rapid changes in technology and customer requirements and evolving industry standards. As a result, our success depends on: • the convergence of technologies, such as voice, data and video on single, secure networks; • the timely adoption and market acceptance of industry standards, and timely resolution of conflicting U.S. and international industry standards; and • our ability to influence the development of emerging industry standards and to introduce new and enhanced products that are compatible with such standards. Slow market acceptance of new technologies, products, or industry standards could adversely affect our sales or overall results of operations. In addition, if our technology is not included in an industry standard on a timely basis or if we fail to achieve timely certification of compliance to industry standards for our products, our sales of such products or our overall results of operations could be adversely affected. A significant portion of our sales is derived from a small number of resellers. If any of these partners reduces its business with us, our business could be seriously harmed. We distribute many of our products through two-tier distribution channels that include distributors, systems integrators and VARs. A significant portion of our sales is concentrated among a few distributors; our two largest distributors accounted for a combined 30 percent of total sales for the year ended June 2, 2006, a combined 34 percent of total sales for the year ended 18 Table of Contents May 31, 2005 and a combined 33 percent of total sales for year ended May 31, 2004. If either of these distributors reduces its business with us, our sales and overall results of operations could be adversely affected. We depend on distributors who maintain inventories of our products. If the distributors reduce their inventories of our products, our sales could be adversely affected. We work closely with our distributors to monitor channel inventory levels and ensure that appropriate levels of products are available to resellers and end users. Our target range for channel inventory levels is between three and five weeks of supply on hand at our distributors. Partners with a below-average inventory level may incur “stock outs” that would adversely impact our sales. If our channel partners reduce their levels of inventory of our products, our sales would be negatively impacted during the period of change. If we are unable to successfully develop relationships with system integrators, service providers, and enterprise VARs, our sales may be negatively affected. As part of our sales strategy, we are targeting system integrators (SIs), service providers (SPs), and enterprise VARs (eVARs). In addition to specialized technical expertise, SIs, SPs and eVARs typically offer sophisticated services capabilities that are frequently desired by larger enterprise customers. In order to expand our distribution channel to include resellers with such capabilities, we must be able to provide effective support to these resellers. If our sales, marketing or services capabilities are not sufficiently robust to provide effective support to such SIs, SPs, and eVARs, we may not be successful in expanding our distribution model and current SI, SP, and eVAR partners may terminate their relationships with us, which would adversely impact our sales and overall results of operations. The members of the board of our China joint venture designated by our co-owner, Huawei, have protective rights over the approval of certain matters; accordingly if Huawei does not agree with us on these matters, these rights could harm 3Com’s business by preventing us from taking desired actions. The governance documents applicable to our joint venture in China, H-3C, include the requirement that certain actions be approved by an affirmative vote of two-thirds of H-3C’s board of directors, including at least one director appointed by 3Com Corporation and one director appointed by Huawei. This right gives Huawei’s board members the right to approve certain matters at the H-3C level, including the following: • any amendment to the Articles or charter documents; • any voluntary bankruptcy, liquidation, dissolution or winding up; • changes in authorized capital stock or the issuance of capital stock (or rights to acquire capital stock); • any significant merger, acquisition, disposition or other corporate reorganization; • determining the amount of dividends to pay and whether to pay special dividends not required by the dividend policy; • related party transactions, including loans and capital contributions; • incurrence of debt over a specified amount that falls outside of the approved budget; and • any sale, exclusive license or other transfer or disposition of any significant technology or intellectual property. If there are disagreements between us and Huawei with respect to these matters, we may not be able to implement certain actions and the success of this joint venture may be adversely affected. Our competition with Huawei in the enterprise networking market could have a material adverse effect on our sales and our results of operations. As Huawei expands its international operations, there could be increasing instances where we compete directly with Huawei in the enterprise networking market. As a co-owner and OEM customer of H-3C, Huawei has access to many of H-3C’s products thereby enhancing Huawei’s current ability to compete directly with us. We could lose a competitive advantage in markets where we compete with Huawei, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and overall results of operations. 19 Table of Contents We may pursue acquisitions of other companies that, if not successful, could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. In the future, we may pursue acquisitions of companies to enhance our existing capabilities. There can be no assurances that acquisitions that we might pursue will be successful. If we pursue an acquisition but are not successful in completing it, or if we complete an acquisition but are not successful in integrating the acquired company’s technology, employees, products or operations successfully, our business, financial position or results of operations could be adversely affected. We may be unable to manage our supply chain successfully, which would adversely impact our sales, gross margin and profitability. Current business conditions and operational challenges in managing our supply chain affect our business in a number of ways: • in the past, some key components have had limited availability; • as integration of networking features on a reduced number of computer chips continues, we are increasingly facing competition from parties who are our suppliers; • our ability to accurately forecast demand is diminished; • our reliance on, and long-term arrangements with, third-party manufacturers places much of the supply chain process out of our direct control and heightens the need for accurate forecasting and reduces our ability to transition quickly to alternative supply chain strategies; and • we may experience disruptions to our logistics. Some of our suppliers are also our competitors. We cannot be certain that in the future our suppliers, particularly those who are also in active competition with us, will be able or willing to meet our demand for components in a timely and cost-effective manner. There has been a trend toward consolidation of vendors of electronic components. Our reliance on a smaller number of vendors and the inability to quickly switch vendors increase the risk of logistics disruptions, unfavorable price fluctuations, or disruptions in supply, particularly in a supply-constrained environment. Supplies of certain key components can become tighter as industry demand for such components has increased. If the resulting increase in component costs and time necessary to obtain these components persists, we may experience an adverse impact to gross margin. If overall demand for our products or the mix of demand for our products is significantly different from our expectations, we may face inadequate or excess component supply or inadequate or excess manufacturing capacity. This would result in orders for products that could not be manufactured in a timely manner, or a buildup of inventory that could not easily be sold. Either of these situations could adversely affect our market share, sales, and results of operations or financial position. Our strategies to outsource the majority of our manufacturing requirements to contract manufacturers may not result in meeting our cost, quality or performance standards. The inability of any contract manufacturer to meet our cost, quality or performance standards could adversely affect our sales and overall results from operations. The cost, quality, performance, and availability of contract manufacturing operations are and will be essential to the successful production and sale of many of our products. We may not be able to provide contract manufacturers with product volumes that are high enough to achieve sufficient cost savings. If shipments fall below forecasted levels, we may incur increased costs or be required to take ownership of inventory. In addition, a significant component of maintaining cost competitiveness is the ability of our contract manufacturers to adjust their own costs and manufacturing infrastructure to compensate for possible adverse exchange rate movements. To the extent that the contract manufacturers are unable to do so, and we are unable to procure alternative product supplies, then our own competitiveness and results of operations could be adversely impacted. We have implemented a program with our manufacturing partners to ship products directly from regional shipping centers to customers. Through this program, we are relying on these partners to fill customer orders in a timely manner. This program 20 Table of Contents may not yield the efficiencies that we expect, which would negatively impact our results of operations. Any disruptions to on-time delivery to customers would adversely impact our sales and overall results of operations. China’s governmental and regulatory reforms and changing economic environment may impact our ability to do business in China. As a result of the historic reforms of the past several decades, multiple government bodies are involved in regulating and administrating affairs in the enterprise networking industry in China. These government agencies have broad discretion and authority over all aspects of the networking, telecommunications and information technology industry in China; accordingly their decision may impact our ability to do business in China. While we anticipate that the basic principles underlying the reforms China has made will remain unchanged, any of the following changes in China’s political and economic conditions and governmental policies could have a substantial impact on our business: • the promulgation of new laws and regulations and the interpretation of those laws and regulations; • enforcement and application of rules and regulations by the Chinese government; • the introduction of measures to control inflation or stimulate growth; or • any actions that limit our ability to develop, manufacture, import or sell our products in China, or to finance and operate our business in China. Furthermore, China’s economic environment has been changing as a result of China’s entry, in December of 2001, into the World Trade Organization, or the WTO. If China’s entry into the WTO results in increased competition or has a negative impact on China’s economy, our business could suffer. Since early 2004, the Chinese government has implemented certain measures to control the pace of economic growth. Such measures may cause a decrease in the level of economic activity in China, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Uncertainties with respect to the Chinese legal system may adversely affect us. We conduct our business in China primarily through our joint venture, H-3C, a Hong Kong entity which in turn owns a Chinese entity. These entities are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China. In addition, there are uncertainties regarding the interpretation and enforcement of laws, rules and policies in China. Because many laws and regulations are relatively new and the Chinese legal system is still evolving, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform. Moreover, the interpretation of statutes and regulations may be subject to government policies reflecting domestic political changes. Finally, enforcement of existing laws or contracts based on existing law may be uncertain, and it may be difficult to obtain swift and equitable enforcement, or to obtain enforcement of a judgment by a court of another jurisdiction. Any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management’s attention. If tax benefits available to our China joint venture, H-3C, are reduced or repealed, our business could suffer. The Chinese government is considering the imposition of a “unified” corporate income tax that would phase out, over time, the preferential tax treatment to which H-3C is currently entitled. While it is not certain whether the government will implement a unified tax structure or whether H-3C will receive “grandfathered” status from any new tax, if a new tax structure is implemented, such new tax structure may adversely affect our financial condition. H-3C is subject to restrictions on paying dividends and making other payments to us. Chinese regulations currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits, as determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. Our joint venture, a Hong Kong entity, does business through a Chinese entity that is required to set aside a portion of its after-tax profits according to Chinese accounting standards and regulations to fund certain reserve funds. The Chinese government also imposes controls on the conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies and the remittance of currencies out of China. We may experience difficulties in completing the administrative procedures necessary to obtain and remit foreign currency. These restrictions may in the future limit our ability to receive dividends or repatriate funds from H-3C. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting that includes our China joint venture, H-3C, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. 21 Table of Contents The annual evaluation of internal control over financial reporting required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will first include H-3C with respect to our fiscal year ending June 1, 2007 and the related annual report on Form 10-K. If we cannot enhance H-3C’s existing controls by the evaluation date, our management may conclude that our internal control over financial reporting at the end of that period is not effective. Moreover, even if our management concludes that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to attest to our management’s conclusions or may reach an opposite conclusion. Furthermore, having effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and is important to help prevent fraud. If we fail to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting on a consolidated basis, it could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our common stock. Furthermore, we anticipate that we will incur considerable costs and use significant management time and other resources in an effort to bring H-3C into compliance with Section 404 and the other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We are subject to risks relating to currency rate fluctuations and exchange controls and we do not hedge this risk in China. Due to our consolidation of our joint venture in China, a significant portion of our sales and a portion of our costs will be made in China and denominated in Renminbi. In July 2005, China uncoupled the Renminbi from the U.S. dollar and let it float in a narrow band against a basket of foreign currencies. The move initially revalued the Renminbi by 2.1% against the U.S. dollar; however, it is uncertain what further adjustments may be made in the future. The Renminbi-U.S. dollar exchange rate could float, and the Renminbi could appreciate or depreciate relative to the U.S. dollar. Any movement of the Renminbi may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues, operating results and financial position. We do not currently hedge the currency risk in H-3C through foreign exchange forward contracts or otherwise and China employs currency controls restricting Renminbi conversion, limiting our ability to engage in currency hedging activities in China. Various foreign exchange controls are applicable to us in China, and such restrictions may in the future make it difficult for H-3C or us to repatriate earnings, which could have an adverse effect on our cash flows and financial position. We may need to engage in complex and costly litigation in order to protect, maintain or enforce our intellectual property rights; in some jurisdictions, such as China, our rights may not be as strong as the rights we enjoy in the U.S. Whether we are defending the assertion of intellectual property rights against us, or asserting our intellectual property rights against others, intellectual property litigation can be complex, costly, protracted, and highly disruptive to business operations because it may divert the attention and energies of management and key technical personnel. Further, plaintiffs in intellectual property cases often seek injunctive relief and the measures of damages in intellectual property litigation are complex and often subjective or uncertain. Thus, the existence of this type of litigation, or any adverse determinations related to such litigation, could subject us to significant liabilities and costs. If any of our OEM, ODM, or joint venture partners become involved in intellectual property disputes and are unable to hold us harmless, then we may incur liabilities or suffer disruption of our business. Any one of these factors could adversely affect our sales, gross margin, overall results of operations, cash flow or financial position. In addition, the legal systems of many foreign countries do not protect or honor intellectual property rights to the same extent as the legal system of the United States. For example, in China, the legal system in general, and the intellectual property regime in particular, are still in the development stage. It may be very difficult, time-consuming and costly for us to attempt to enforce our intellectual property rights, and those of our controlled Chinese joint venture, in these jurisdictions. We may not be able to defend ourselves successfully against claims that we are infringing the intellectual property rights of others. Many of our competitors, such as telecommunications, networking, and computer equipment manufacturers, have large intellectual property portfolios, including patents that may cover technologies that are relevant to our business. In addition, many smaller companies, universities, and individual inventors have obtained or applied for patents in areas of technology that may relate to our business. The industry continues to be aggressive in assertion, licensing, and litigation of patents and other intellectual property rights. 22 Table of Contents In the course of our business, we receive claims of infringement or otherwise become aware of potentially relevant patents or other intellectual property rights held by other parties. We evaluate the validity and applicability of these intellectual property rights, and determine in each case whether we must negotiate licenses or cross-licenses to incorporate or use the proprietary technologies, protocols, or specifications in our products. If we are unable to obtain and maintain licenses on favorable terms for intellectual property rights required for the manufacture, sale, and use of our products, particularly those that must comply with industry standard protocols and specifications to be commercially viable, our financial position or results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, if we are alleged to infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we could be required to seek licenses from others or be prevented from manufacturing or selling our products, which could cause disruptions to our operations or the markets in which we compete. Finally, even if we have indemnification rights in respect of such allegations of infringement, from our suppliers or licensors, we may not be able to recover our losses under those indemnity rights. Fluctuations in our operating results and other factors may contribute to volatility in the market price of our stock. Historically, our stock price has experienced volatility. We expect that our stock price may continue to experience volatility in the future due to a variety of potential factors such as: • fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations and cash flow; • changes in our cash and equivalents and short term investment balances; • variations between our actual financial results and published analysts’ expectations; and • announcements by our competitors. In addition, over the past several years, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the stock prices of many technology companies. These factors, as well as general economic and political conditions or investors’ concerns regarding the credibility of corporate financial statements and the accounting profession, may have a material adverse affect on the market price of our stock in the future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 