ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk factors may affect our future business and results. The matters discussed below could cause our future results to materially differ from past results or those described in forward-looking statements and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. Risks Related to Historical Losses, Financial Condition and Substantial Indebtedness We have incurred significant net losses in recent fiscal periods, including $228.8 million for the fiscal year ended May 30, 2008, and we may not be able to return to profitability. We cannot provide assurance that we will return to profitability. While we continue to take steps designed to improve our results of operations, we have incurred significant net losses in recent periods. We face a number of challenges that have affected our operating results during the current and past several fiscal years. Specifically, we have experienced, and may continue to experience, the following: • declining sales due to price competition and reduced incoming order rate; • operating expenses that, as a percentage of sales, have exceeded our desired financial model; • significant senior leadership and other management changes; • disruptions and expenses resulting from our workforce reductions and employee attrition; and • interest expense resulting from our senior secured loan. If we do not increase our sales, we may need to further reduce costs in order to achieve profitability. As we have implemented significant cost reduction programs over the last several years, it may be difficult to make significant further cost reductions without in turn impacting our sales. Restructuring activity could also make it more difficult for us to address all of our legal and regulatory obligations in an effective manner, which could lead to penalties. In addition, we may choose to reinvest some or all of our realized cost savings in future growth opportunities or in our H3C integration efforts. Any of these events or occurrences will likely cause our expense levels to continue to be at levels above our desired model. If we cannot overcome these challenges, reduce our expenses and/or increase our revenue, we may not become profitable (and if we become profitable, to sustain such profitability). 13 Table of Contents Our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial condition; and the related debt service obligations may adversely affect our cash flow and ability to invest in and grow our businesses. We now have, and for the foreseeable future will continue to have, a significant amount of indebtedness. As of May 30, 2008, our total debt balance was $301 million, of which $48 million is due within one year and was classified as a current liability. In addition, despite current debt levels, the terms of our indebtedness allow us or our subsidiaries to incur more debt, subject to certain limitations. While our senior secured loan is outstanding, we will have annual debt obligations of between approximately $48 million and $137 million. The interest rate on this loan is floating based on the LIBOR rate; accordingly, if the LIBOR rate is increased, these amounts could be higher. The maturity date on this loan is September 28, 2012. We intend to fulfill our debt service obligations primarily from cash generated by our H3C segment operations, if any, and, to the extent necessary, from its existing cash and investments. Because we anticipate that a substantial portion of the cash generated by our operations will be used to service this loan during its term, such funds will not be available to use in future operations, or investing in our businesses. Further, a significant portion of the excess cash flow generated by our H3C segment, if any, must be used annually to prepay principal on the loan. The foregoing may adversely impact our ability to expand our businesses or make other investments. In addition, if we are unable to generate sufficient cash to meet these obligations and must instead use our existing cash or investments, we may have to reduce, curtail or terminate other activities of our businesses. Our indebtedness could have significant negative consequences to us. For example, it could: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing; • require the dedication of a substantial portion of any cash flow from operations to the payment of principal of, and interest on, our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of such cash flow to fund growth, working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to our competitors with less debt. The restrictions imposed by the terms of our senior secured loan facility could adversely impact our ability to invest in and grow our H3C business. Covenants in the agreements governing our senior secured loan materially restrict our H3C operations, including H3C’s ability to incur debt, pay dividends, make certain investments and payments, make acquisitions of other businesses and encumber or dispose of assets. These negative covenants restrict our flexibility in operating our H3C business. In addition, in the event our H3C segment’s financial results do not meet our plans, the failure to comply with the financial covenants contained in the loan agreements could lead to a default. Our lenders may attempt to call defaults for violations of financial covenants (or other items, even if the underlying financial performance of H3C is satisfactory) in an effort to extract waiver or consent fees from us or to force a refinancing. A default and acceleration under one debt instrument or other contract may also trigger cross-acceleration under other debt instruments or other agreements, if any. An event of default, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on us because the lenders will be able to accelerate all outstanding amounts under the loan or foreclose on the collateral (which consists primarily of the assets of our H3C segment and could involve the lenders taking control over our H3C segment). Any of these actions would likely result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. 14 Table of Contents Risks Related to H3C Segment and Dependence Thereon We are significantly dependent on our H3C segment; if H3C is not successful we will likely experience a material adverse impact to our business, business prospects and operating results. For the fiscal year ended May 30, 2008, H3C accounted for approximately 60 percent of our consolidated revenue and approximately 65 percent of our consolidated gross profit. In addition to China-related risks discussed elsewhere in this filing, H3C is subject to specific risks relating to its ability to: • maintain a leading position in the networking equipment market in China; • build profitable operations in other emerging markets throughout the world, but particularly in the Asia Pacific region; • offer new and innovative products and services to attract and retain a larger customer base; • increase awareness of the H3C brand and continue to develop customer loyalty; • respond to rapidly changing competitive market conditions; • respond to changes in the regulatory environment; • manage risks associated with intellectual property rights, particularly in China; • maintain effective control of costs and expenses; and • attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. H3C has been growing and profitable since inception, and maintains a leading position in many market categories in China. It has experienced growth in recent periods in part due to the growth in China’s technology industry, which may not be representative of future growth or be sustainable. Companies that have leading positions may find it more challenging to grow in their markets. We cannot therefore assure you that H3C’s historical financial information is indicative of its future operating results or future financial performance, or that its profitability will be sustained. H3C faces competition from domestic Chinese industry participants, and as a foreign-owned business, may not be as successful in selling to Chinese customers, particularly those in the public sector, to the extent that such customers favor Chinese-owned competitors. Given the significance of H3C to our financial results, if H3C is not successful, our business will likely be adversely affected. We are dependent to a large extent on sales in China, and may face difficulty growing our China business in the future due to our existing leading market share in China and the economic, political and social risks inherent in that country. Our sales are significantly dependent on China, with approximately 47 percent of our consolidated revenues attributable to sales in China for the fiscal year ended May 30, 2008. We expect that a significant portion of our sales will continue to be derived from China for the foreseeable future. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations are to a significant degree subject to economic, political, legal and social developments and other events in China and surrounding areas. In addition, because we already have a significant percentage of the market share in China for enterprise networking products (and together with Cisco represent a substantial portion of that market), our opportunities to grow market share in China are more limited than in the past. We discuss risks related to the PRC in further detail below. We are dependent on Huawei Technologies (“Huawei”) in several material respects, including as an important customer; we expect Huawei to reduce its business with H3C, which could materially adversely affect our business results. H3C derives a material portion of its sales from Huawei, which formerly held a significant investment in H3C. In the three months ended May 30, 2008, which includes results from H3C’s March 31, 2008 quarter, Huawei accounted for approximately 26 percent of the revenue for our H3C segment and approximately 15 percent of our consolidated revenue. In the twelve months ended May 30, 2008, Huawei accounted for approximately 29 percent of the revenue for our H3C segment and approximately 17 percent of our consolidated revenue. Huawei’s percentage of H3C’s revenues has been trending downward from 41 percent, during the three months ended November 30, 2006, to the current level, and we expect this downward trend to continue. We further expect that Huawei will in the future reduce its business with H3C and, accordingly, that its purchases in absolute dollars will decrease. Huawei does not have any minimum purchase requirements under our existing OEM agreement, which expires in November 2008. While we are seeking a renewal of that agreement, we may not be able to renew it. In sum, we risk the possibility that Huawei sources products from another vendor or internally develops these products. We need to develop additional channels within China and in other regions, including channels to the carrier market, and we believe in any case that increasing our DVBU segment’s sales of H3C products is highly important to H3C’s global growth opportunities. If we fail in these efforts, 15 Table of Contents our business will suffer. Further, we have and expect to continue to incur costs relating to transition matters with respect to support that Huawei previously provided for H3C when it was a shareholder. In addition, our China headquarters in Hangzhou, PRC is owned by Huawei and leased to us under a lease agreement that expires in January 2009; if we cannot renew this lease on terms favorable to us or find alternate facilities, we may suffer disruption in our H3C business. If any of the above risks occur, it will likely have an adverse impact on H3C’s sales and business performance. We must execute on a global strategy to leverage the benefits of our H3C acquisition, including integration activities to operate more effectively as “one” company; if we are not successful in these efforts, our business will suffer. Our acquisition of H3C presents unique challenges that we must address. We must successfully execute on managing our operating segments, and, to the extent we so choose, integrating these businesses, in order to fully benefit from this acquisition. As a joint venture owned by two separate companies until March 2007, H3C historically operated in many ways independently from 3Com and Huawei. H3C’s business is largely based in the PRC and therefore significant cultural, language, business process and other differences exist between our other segments and H3C. In order to more closely manage and integrate our legacy 3Com and H3C businesses, we expect to incur significant transition costs, including management retention costs and other related items. There may also be business disruption as management and other personnel focus on global management activities and integration matters. In order to realize the full benefits of this acquisition, we will need to manage our operating segments and employ strategies to leverage H3C. These efforts will require significant time and attention of management and other key employees at 3Com and H3C. Depending on the decisions we make on various strategic alternatives available to us, we may develop new or adjusted global design and development initiatives, go-to-market strategies, branding tactics, unified back office, supply chain and IT systems, streamlined engineering efforts or other strategies that take advantage and leverage H3C’s and our other segments’ respective strengths. The terms of our existing H3C senior secured indebtedness may make these efforts more difficult to the extent they limit or prohibit our ability to fully integrate H3C. If we do not execute on a global strategy that enables us to leverage the benefits of this acquisition, our business will be substantially harmed. If we cannot continue to increase our DVBU segment’s sales of H3C products outside of China, we will likely find it increasingly difficult to grow our overall business. We believe that increasing our DVBU segment’s sales of H3C products is highly important to 3Com’s global growth opportunities and ultimately to our consolidated growth. If we fail in these efforts, our business will suffer. Risk Related to Personnel Our success is dependent on continuing to hire and retain qualified managers and other personnel, including at our H3C segment, and reducing senior management turnover in our other segments; if we are not successful in attracting and retaining these personnel, our business will suffer. Competition for qualified employees is intense. If we fail to attract, hire, or retain qualified personnel, our business will be harmed. We have experienced significant turnover in our senior management team in the last several years and we may continue to experience change at this level. If we cannot retain qualified senior managers and provide stability in the senior management team to enable them to work together for an extended period of time, our business may not succeed. The senior management team at H3C has been highly effective since H3C’s inception in 2003. We need to continue to incentivize and retain H3C management. We cannot be sure that we will be successful in these efforts. If we are not successful, our H3C business may suffer, which, in turn, will have a material adverse impact on our consolidated business. Many of these senior managers, and other key H3C employees, originally worked for Huawei prior to the inception of H3C. Subject to non-competition agreements with us (if applicable), these employees could return to work for Huawei at any time. Huawei is not subject to any non-solicitation obligations in respect of H3C or 3Com. Further, former Huawei employees that work for H3C may retain financial interests in Huawei. In addition, due to our recent merger transaction with affiliates of Bain Capital Partners, LLC that did not close, and the recent decline in our stock price, we believe it will be substantially more difficult to retain key employees and we will likely need to take significant actions to retain these individuals over time. If we are not successful in these retention efforts, our business will likely suffer. 16 Table of Contents Risks Related to Competition Intense competition in the market for networking solutions could prevent us from maintaining or increasing revenue and achieving profitability. The market for networking solutions is intensely competitive. In particular, Cisco maintains a dominant position in this market and several of its products compete directly with our products. Cisco’s substantial resources and market dominance have enabled it to reduce prices on its products within a short period of time following the introduction of these products, which typically causes its competitors to reduce prices and, therefore, the margins and the overall profitability of its competitors. Purchasers of networking solutions may choose Cisco’s products because of its broader product line and strong reputation in the networking market. In addition, Cisco may have developed, or could in the future develop, new technologies that directly compete with our products or render our products obsolete. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against Cisco, currently the leading provider in the networking market. We also compete with several other significant companies in the networking industry. Some of our current and potential competitors have greater market leverage, longer operating histories, greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources, more name recognition and larger installed customer bases. Additionally, we may face competition from unknown companies and emerging technologies that may offer new networking solutions. Furthermore, a number of these competitors may merge or form strategic relationships that would enable them to apply greater resources and sales coverage than we can, and to offer, or bring to market earlier, products that are superior to ours in terms of features, quality, pricing or a combination of these and other factors. In order to remain competitive, we must, among other things, invest significant resources in developing new products with superior performance at lower prices than our competitors, enhance our current products and maintain customer satisfaction. In addition, we must make certain our sales and marketing capabilities allow us to compete effectively against our competitors. If we fail to do so, our products may not compete favorably with those of our competitors and our revenue and profitability could suffer. Our competition with Huawei in the enterprise networking market could have a material adverse effect on our sales and our results of operations; and after a contractual non-compete period expires, Huawei can increase its level of competition, which would likely materially and adversely affect our business. As Huawei expands its international operations, there could be increasing instances where we compete directly with Huawei in the enterprise networking market. As an OEM customer of H3C, Huawei has had, and continues to have, access to H3C’s products for resale. This access enhances Huawei’s current ability to compete directly with us. We could lose a competitive advantage in markets where we compete with Huawei, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our sales and overall results of operations. In addition, Huawei’s obligation not to offer or sell enterprise class, and small-to-medium size business (or SMB), routers and switches that are competitive with H3C’s products continues until September 29, 2008. After that date, we are subject to the risk of increased competition from Huawei, which could materially harm our results of operations. More specifically, after the non-compete period expires, Huawei may offer and sell its own enterprise or SMB routers and switches, or resell products that it sources from our competitors. Huawei is not prohibited from developing (but is prohibited from offering or selling) competing products during the non-compete period. Huawei is also not prohibited from currently selling products in ancillary areas—such as security, voice over internet protocol and storage products—that are also sold today by H3C. We compete in those ancillary product areas today. If Huawei chooses to increase its competition with us, or if we do not compete favorably with Huawei, it is likely that our H3C business results, particularly in the Asia Pacific region and specifically in China, will be materially and negatively affected. Huawei’s incentive not to compete with H3C or us, and its incentive to assist H3C, is more likely to diminish now that Huawei does not own any interest in H3C and our merger transaction with affiliates of Bain Capital Partners, LLC (in which Huawei would have participated as a minority investor) was not consummated. In addition, Huawei maintains a strong presence within China and the Asia Pacific region and has significant resources with which to compete within the networking industry, including the assets of Harbour Networks, a China-based competitor of H3C that possesses enterprise networking products and technology. In sum, we risk the possibility that Huawei sources products from another vendor or internally develops these products. We cannot predict whether Huawei will compete with us. If competition from Huawei increases, our business will likely suffer. 17 Table of Contents Finally, if any of H3C’s senior managers, and other key H3C employees that originally worked for Huawei prior to the inception of H3C, return to work for Huawei, the competitive risks discussed above may be heightened. Subject to non-competition agreements with us (if applicable), these employees could return to work for Huawei at any time. Huawei is not subject to any non-solicitation obligations in respect of H3C or 3Com. Further, former Huawei employees that work for H3C may retain financial interests in Huawei. Risks Related to Business and Technology Strategy We may not be successful at identifying and responding to new and emerging market and product opportunities, or at responding quickly enough to technologies or markets that are in decline. The markets in which we compete are characterized by rapid technology transitions and short product life cycles. Therefore, our success depends on our ability to do the following: • identify new market and product opportunities; • predict which technologies and markets will see declining demand; • develop and introduce new products and solutions in a timely manner; • gain market acceptance of new products and solutions, particularly in targeted emerging markets; and • rapidly and efficiently transition our customers from older to newer enterprise networking technologies. Our financial position or results of operations could suffer if we are not successful in achieving these goals. For example, our business would suffer if any of the following occurs: • there is a delay in introducing new products; • we lose certain channels of distribution or key partners; • our products do not satisfy customers in terms of features, functionality or quality; or • our products cost more to produce than we expect. Because we will continue to rely on original design manufacturers to assist in product design of some of our products, we may not be able to respond to emerging technology trends through the design and production of new products as well as if we were working independently. We expect to utilize strategic relationships and other alliances as key elements in our strategy. If we are not successful in forming desired ventures and alliances or if such ventures and alliances are not successful, our ability to achieve our growth and profitability goals could be adversely affected. We have announced alliances with third parties. In the future, we expect to evaluate other possible strategic relationships, including joint ventures and other types of alliances, and we may increase our reliance on such strategic relationships to broaden our sales channels, complement internal development of new technologies and enhancement of existing products, and exploit perceived market opportunities. For example, we intend to seek additional channel partners for the Chinese carrier market. If we fail to form the number and quality of strategic relationships that we desire, or if such strategic relationships are not successful, we could suffer missed market opportunities, channel conflicts, delays in product development or delivery, or other operational difficulties. Further, if third parties acquire our strategic partners or if our competitors enter into successful strategic relationships, we may face increased competition. Any of these difficulties could have an adverse effect on our future sales and results of operations. Our strategy of outsourcing functions and operations may fail to reduce cost and may disrupt our operations. We continue to look for ways to decrease cost and improve efficiency by contracting with other companies to perform functions or operations that, in the past, we have performed ourselves. We have outsourced the majority of our manufacturing and logistics for our non-H3C products. We now rely on outside vendors to meet the majority of our manufacturing needs as well as a significant portion of our IT needs for the non-H3C segments. Additionally, we outsource certain functions for technical support and product return services. If we do not provide our customers with a high quality of service, we risk losing customers and/or increasing our support costs. 18 Table of Contents Although we believe that outsourcing will result in lower costs and increased efficiencies, this may not be the case. Because these third parties may not be as responsive to our needs as we would be ourselves, outsourcing increases the risk of disruption to our operations. In addition, our agreements with these third parties sometimes include substantial penalties for terminating such agreements early or failing to maintain minimum service levels. Because we cannot always predict how long we will need the services or how much of the services we will use, we may have to pay these penalties or incur costs if our business conditions change. Our reliance on industry standards, technological change in the marketplace, and new product initiatives may cause our sales to fluctuate or decline. The enterprise networking industry in which we compete is characterized by rapid changes in technology and customer requirements and evolving industry standards. As a result, our success depends on: • the convergence of technologies, such as voice, data and video on single, secure networks; • the timely adoption and market acceptance of industry standards, and timely resolution of conflicting U.S. and international industry standards; and • our ability to influence the development of emerging industry standards and to introduce new and enhanced products that are compatible with such standards. Slow market acceptance of new technologies, products, or industry standards could adversely affect our sales or overall results of operations. In addition, if our technology is not included in an industry standard on a timely basis or if we fail to achieve timely certification of compliance to industry standards for our products, our sales of such products or our overall results of operations could be adversely affected. We focus on enterprise networking, and our results of operations may fluctuate based on factors related entirely to conditions in this market. Our focus on enterprise networking may cause increased sensitivity to the business risks associated specifically with the enterprise networking market and our ability to execute successfully on our strategies to provide superior solutions for larger and multi-site enterprise environments. To be successful in the enterprise networking market, we will need to be perceived by decision making officers of large enterprises as committed for the long-term to the high-end networking business. Also, expansion of sales to large enterprises may be disruptive in a variety of ways, such as adding larger systems integrators that may raise channel conflict issues with existing distributors, or a perception of diminished focus on the small and medium enterprise market. Risks Related to Operations and Distribution Channels A significant portion of our sales is derived from a small number of distributors. If any of these partners reduces its business with us, our business could be adversely affected. We distribute many of our products through two-tier distribution channels that include distributors, systems integrators and value added resellers, or VARs. A significant portion of our sales is concentrated among a few distributors; our two largest distributors accounted for a combined 17 percent of our consolidated revenue for the twelve months ended May 30, 2008. If either of these distributors reduces its business with us, our sales and overall results of operations could be adversely affected. We depend on distributors who maintain inventories of our products. If the distributors reduce their inventories of our products, our sales could be adversely affected. We work closely with our distributors to monitor channel inventory levels and ensure that appropriate levels of products are available to resellers and end users. Our target range for channel inventory levels is between three and five weeks of supply on hand at our distributors. Partners with a below-average inventory level may incur “stock outs” that would adversely impact our sales. Our distribution agreements typically provide that our distributors may cancel their orders on short notice with little or no penalty. If our channel partners reduce their levels of inventory of our products, our sales would be negatively impacted during the period of change. 19 Table of Contents If we are unable to successfully develop relationships with system integrators, service providers, and enterprise VARs, our sales may be negatively affected. As part of our sales strategy, we are targeting system integrators, or SIs, service providers, or SPs, and enterprise value-added resellers, or eVARs. In addition to specialized technical expertise, SIs, SPs and eVARs typically offer sophisticated services capabilities that are frequently desired by larger enterprise customers. In order to expand our distribution channel to include resellers with such capabilities, we must be able to provide effective support to these resellers. If our sales, marketing or services capabilities are not sufficiently robust to provide effective support to such SIs, SPs, and eVARs, we may not be successful in expanding our distribution model and current SI, SP, and eVAR partners may terminate their relationships with us, which would adversely impact our sales and overall results of operations. We may pursue acquisitions of other companies that, if not successful, could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. In the future, we may pursue acquisitions of companies to enhance our existing capabilities. There can be no assurances that acquisitions we might consummate will be successful. If we pursue an acquisition but are not successful in completing it, or if we complete an acquisition but are not successful in integrating the acquired company’s technology, employees, products or operations successfully, our business, financial position or results of operations could be adversely affected. We may be unable to manage our supply chain successfully, which would adversely impact our sales, gross margin and profitability. Current business conditions and operational challenges in managing our supply chain affect our business in a number of ways: • our ability to accurately forecast demand is diminished; • our reliance on, and long-term arrangements with, third-party manufacturers places much of the supply chain process out of our direct control and heightens the need for accurate forecasting and reduces our ability to transition quickly to alternative supply chain strategies; and • we may experience disruptions to our logistics. We cannot be certain that in the future our suppliers, particularly those who are also in active competition with us, will be able or willing to meet our demand for components in a timely and cost-effective manner. There has been a trend toward consolidation of vendors of electronic components. Our reliance on a smaller number of vendors and the inability to quickly switch vendors increases the risk of logistics disruptions, unfavorable price fluctuations, or disruptions in supply, particularly in a supply-constrained environment. Supplies of certain key components have become tighter as industry demand for such components has increased. If the resulting increase in component costs and time necessary to obtain these components persists, we may experience an adverse impact to gross margin. If overall demand for our products or the mix of demand for our products is significantly different from our expectations, we may face inadequate or excess component supply or inadequate or excess manufacturing capacity. This would result in orders for products that could not be manufactured in a timely manner, or a buildup of inventory that could not easily be sold. Either of these situations could adversely affect our market share, sales, and results of operations or financial position. The inability of any contract manufacturer to meet our cost, quality or performance standards could adversely affect our sales and overall results from operations. The cost, quality, performance, and availability of contract manufacturing operations are and will be essential to the successful production and sale of many of our products. We may not be able to provide contract manufacturers with product volumes that are high enough to achieve sufficient cost savings. If shipments fall below forecasted levels, we may incur increased costs or be required to take ownership of inventory. In addition, a significant component of maintaining cost competitiveness is the ability of our contract manufacturers to adjust their own costs and manufacturing infrastructure to compensate for possible adverse exchange rate movements. To the extent that the contract manufacturers are unable to do so, and we are unable to procure alternative product supplies, then our own competitiveness and results of operations could be adversely impacted. 20 Table of Contents In portions of our business we have implemented a program with our manufacturing partners to ship products directly from regional shipping centers to customers. Through this program, we are relying on these partners to fill customer orders in a timely manner. This program may not yield the efficiencies that we expect, which would negatively impact our results of operations. Any disruptions to on-time delivery to customers would adversely impact our sales and overall results of operations. If we fail to adequately evolve our financial and managerial control and reporting systems and processes, including the management of our H3C segment, our ability to manage and grow our business will be negatively affected. Our ability to successfully offer our products and implement our business plan in a rapidly evolving market depends upon an effective planning and management process. We will need to continue to improve our financial and managerial control and our reporting systems and procedures in order to manage our business effectively in the future. If we fail to implement improved systems and processes, our ability to manage our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. For example, now that we own all of H3C, we are spending additional time, resources and capital to manage its business, operations and financial results. If we are not able to successfully manage H3C, our business results could be adversely affected. Risks Related to our Operations in the People’s Republic of China China’s governmental and regulatory reforms and changing economic environment may impact our ability to do business in China. As a result of the historic reforms of the past several decades, multiple government bodies are involved in regulating and administrating affairs in the enterprise networking industry in China. These government agencies have broad discretion and authority over all aspects of the networking, telecommunications and information technology industry in China; accordingly their decisions may impact our ability to do business in China. Any of the following changes in China’s political and economic conditions and governmental policies could have a substantial impact on our business: • the promulgation of new laws and regulations and the interpretation of those laws and regulations; • enforcement and application of rules and regulations by the Chinese government; • the introduction of measures to control inflation or stimulate growth; or • any actions that limit our ability to develop, manufacture, import or sell our products in China, or to finance and operate our business in China. Due to our dependence on China, if China were to experience a broad and prolonged economic slowdown, our results of operations would suffer. The Chinese government has from time-to-time implemented certain measures to control the pace of economic growth. Such measures may cause a decrease in the level of economic activity in China, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Uncertainties with respect to the Chinese legal system may adversely affect us. We conduct our business in China primarily through H3C, a Hong Kong entity which in turn owns several Chinese entities. These entities are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China. In addition, there are uncertainties regarding the interpretation and enforcement of laws, rules and policies in China. Because many laws and regulations are relatively new and the Chinese legal system is still evolving, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform. Moreover, the interpretation of statutes and regulations may be subject to government policies reflecting domestic political changes. Finally, enforcement of existing laws or contracts based on existing law may be uncertain, and it may be difficult to obtain swift and equitable enforcement, or to obtain enforcement of a judgment by a court of another jurisdiction. Any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management’s attention. 21 Table of Contents If PRC tax benefits available to H3C are reduced or repealed, our business could suffer. Effective January 1, 2008, the PRC has enacted a new tax law, which introduces a new corporate income tax rate of 25 percent. Companies which benefited from preferential tax rates and rulings under the previous tax law can continue to enjoy those concessions, subject to transitional rules. Our H3C subsidiary in China was entitled to tax concessions which began in 2004 and exempted it from the PRC income tax for its initial two years and entitle it to a 50 percent reduction in income tax in the following three years. Calendar 2008 will be the final year of that 50 percent reduction. The new tax law provides for a reduced tax rate of 15 percent for companies which qualify as “new and high technology” enterprises. Based on the draft regulations, we believe that our H3C subsidiary in China will qualify for this reduced rate. If H3C is not entitled to “new and high technology” enterprise treatment under this new law (due to the publication of new regulations or the interpretation of existing law or regulation or otherwise), if other tax benefits currently enjoyed by H3C are withdrawn or reduced, or if new taxes are introduced which have not applied to H3C before, there would likely be a resulting increase to H3C’s statutory tax rates in the PRC. Increases to tax rates in the PRC, where our H3C segment is profitable, could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. If we do not qualify for the reduced rate, the statutory income tax rate in China will be 9% for 2008, 20% for 2009, 22% for 2010, 24% for 2011, and 25% thereafter. H3C is subject to restrictions on paying dividends and making other payments to us. Chinese regulations currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits, as determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. H3C does business primarily through a Chinese entity that is required to set aside a portion of its after-tax profits — currently 10 percent — according to Chinese accounting standards and regulations to fund certain reserves. The Chinese government also imposes controls on the conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies and the remittance of currencies out of China. We may experience difficulties in completing the administrative procedures necessary to obtain and remit foreign currency. These restrictions may in the future limit our ability to receive dividends or repatriate funds from H3C. In addition, the credit agreement governing our senior secured loan also imposes significant restrictions on H3C’s ability to dividend or make other payments to our other segments. Finally, the new PRC tax law, effective January 1, 2008, imposes a withholding tax on certain payments by entities resident in PRC to entities outside of the PRC (including Hong Kong). Regulations have now been issued which confirm that this withholding tax will apply to dividends and other distributions made by our H3C subsidiary in China. Consequently, all distributions of earnings realized from 2008 onwards from H3C’s PRC subsidiaries to our H3C subsidiary in Hong Kong will be subject to this withholding tax at a rate of 5%. H3C’s main PRC subsidiary generates the cash used to pay principal and interest on our H3C loan (through dividend flows from the PRC to Hong Kong and then to the Cayman Islands). Accordingly, we will in the future be required to earn proportionately higher profits in the PRC to service principal and interest on our loan, or be forced to fund any deficiencies from cash in our other segments (which do not currently have positive cash flow from operations). We are subject to risks relating to currency rate fluctuations and exchange controls and we do not hedge this risk in China. Approximately 47 percent of our sales and a portion of our costs are denominated in Renminbi, the Chinese currency. At the same time, our senior secured bank loan — which we intend to service and repay primarily through cash flow from H3C’s PRC operations — is denominated in US dollars. In July 2005, China uncoupled the Renminbi from the U.S. dollar and let it float in a narrow band against a basket of foreign currencies. The Renminbi could appreciate or depreciate relative to the U.S. dollar. Any movement of the Renminbi may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues, operating results and financial position, and may make it more difficult for us to service our U.S. dollar-denominated senior secured bank loan. More specifically, if the Renminbi appreciates in value as compared with the U.S. dollar, our reported revenues will derive a beneficial increase due to currency translation; and if the Renminbi depreciates, our revenues will suffer due to such depreciation. This currency translation impacts our expenses as well, but to a lesser degree. We do not currently hedge the currency risk in H3C through foreign exchange forward contracts or otherwise and China employs currency controls restricting Renminbi conversion, limiting our ability to engage in currency hedging activities in China. Various foreign exchange controls are applicable to us in China, and such restrictions may in the future make it difficult for H3C or us to repatriate earnings, which could have an adverse effect on our cash flows and financial position. 22 Table of Contents Risks Related to Intellectual Property If our products contain undetected software or hardware errors, we could incur significant unexpected expenses and could lose sales. High technology products sometimes contain undetected software or hardware errors when new products or new versions or updates of existing products are released to the marketplace. Undetected errors could result in higher than expected warranty and service costs and expenses, and the recording of an accrual for related anticipated expenses. From time to time, such errors or component failures could be found in new or existing products after the commencement of commercial shipments. These problems may have a material adverse effect on our business by causing us to incur significant warranty and repair costs, diverting the attention of our engineering personnel from new product development efforts, delaying the recognition of revenue and causing significant customer relations problems. Further, if products are not accepted by customers due to such defects, and such returns exceed the amount we accrued for defect returns based on our historical experience, our operating results would be adversely affected. Our products must successfully interoperate with products from other vendors. As a result, when problems occur in a network, it may be difficult to identify the sources of these problems. The occurrence of hardware and software errors, whether or not caused by our products, could result in the delay or loss of market acceptance of our products and any necessary revisions may cause us to incur significant expenses. The occurrence of any such problems would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We may need to engage in complex and costly litigation in order to protect, maintain or enforce our intellectual property rights; in some jurisdictions, such as China, our rights may not be as strong as the rights we enjoy in the U.S. Whether we are defending the assertion of intellectual property rights against us, or asserting our intellectual property rights against others, intellectual property litigation can be complex, costly, protracted, and highly disruptive to business operations because it may divert the attention and energies of management and key technical personnel. Further, plaintiffs in intellectual property cases often seek injunctive relief and the measures of damages in intellectual property litigation are complex and often subjective and uncertain. In addition, such litigation may subject us to counterclaims or other retaliatory actions that could increase its costs, complexity, uncertainty and disruption to the business. Thus, the existence of this type of litigation, or any adverse determinations related to such litigation, could subject us to significant liabilities and costs. Any one of these factors could adversely affect our sales, gross margin, overall results of operations, cash flow or financial position. In addition, the legal systems of many foreign countries do not protect or honor intellectual property rights to the same extent as the legal system of the United States. For example, in China, the legal system in general, and the intellectual property regime in particular, are still in the development stage. It may be very difficult, time-consuming and costly for us to attempt to enforce our intellectual property rights, and those of H3C, in these jurisdictions. We may not be able to defend ourselves successfully against claims that we are infringing the intellectual property rights of others. Many of our competitors, such as telecommunications, networking, and computer equipment manufacturers, have large intellectual property portfolios, including patents that may cover technologies that are relevant to our business. In addition, many smaller companies, universities, and individual inventors have obtained or applied for patents in areas of technology that may relate to our business. The industries in which we operate continue to be aggressive in assertion, licensing, and litigation of patents and other intellectual property rights. 23 Table of Contents In the course of our business, we receive claims of infringement or otherwise become aware of potentially relevant patents or other intellectual property rights held by other parties. We evaluate the validity and applicability of these intellectual property rights, and determine in each case whether to negotiate licenses or cross-licenses to incorporate or use the proprietary technologies, protocols, or specifications in our products, and whether we have rights of indemnification against our suppliers, strategic partners or licensors. If we are unable to obtain and maintain licenses on favorable terms for intellectual property rights required for the manufacture, sale, and use of our products, particularly those that must comply with industry standard protocols and specifications to be commercially viable, our financial position or results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, if we are alleged to infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we could be required to seek licenses from others or be prevented from manufacturing or selling our products, which could cause disruptions to our operations or the markets in which we compete. Finally, even if we have indemnification rights in respect of such allegations of infringement from our suppliers, strategic partners or licensors, we may not be able to recover our losses under those indemnity rights. OSN, our open source strategy, subjects us to additional intellectual property risks, such as less control over development of certain technology that forms a part of this strategy and a higher likelihood of litigation. Our Open Services Networking, or OSN, strategy uses open source software, or OSS, licenses. The underlying source code for OSS is generally made available to the general public with either relaxed or no intellectual property restrictions. This allows users to create user-generated software content through either incremental individual effort, or collaboration. The use of OSS means that for such software we do not exercise control over many aspects of the development of the open source technology. For example, the vast majority of programmers developing OSS used by us are neither our employees nor contractors. Therefore, we cannot predict whether further developments and enhancements to OSS selected by us would be available. Furthermore, rival OSS applications often compete for market share. Should our choice of application fail to compete favorably, its OSS development may wane or stop. In addition, OSS has few technological barriers to entry by new competitors and it may be relatively easy for new competitors, who may have greater resources than us, to enter our markets and compete with us. Also, because OSS is often compiled from multiple components developed by numerous independent parties and usually comes “as is” and without indemnification, OSS is more vulnerable to third party intellectual property infringement claims. Finally, some of the more prominent OSS licenses, such as the GNU General Public License, are the subject of litigation. It is possible that a court could hold such licenses to be unenforceable or someone could assert a claim for proprietary rights in a program developed and distributed under them. Any ruling by a court that these licenses are not enforceable or that open source components of our product offerings may not be liberally copied, modified or distributed may have the effect of preventing us from selling or developing all or a portion of our products. If any of the foregoing occurred, it could cause a material adverse impact on our business. Risks Related to the Trading Market Fluctuations in our operating results and other factors may contribute to volatility in the market price of our stock. Historically, our stock price has experienced volatility. We expect that our stock price may continue to experience volatility in the future due to a variety of potential factors such as: • fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations and cash flow; • changes in our cash and equivalents and short term investment balances; • our ability to execute on our strategic plan, including, without limitation, any integration activities we choose to undertake; • variations between our actual financial results and published analysts’ expectations; and • announcements by our competitors or significant customers. For example, we experienced a decrease in our stock price around the same time that our proposed acquisition to be acquired by an entity controlled by affiliates of Bain Capital Partners, or Newco, was terminated. More specifically, on March 20, 2008, an affiliate of Bain Capital Partners, LLC sent a letter to us purporting to terminate our merger agreement dated September 28, 2007, or the Merger Agreement. We terminated the Merger Agreement, by letters dated April 25, 2008 and April 29, 2008, as a result of Newco’s failure to consummate the merger in accordance with the Merger Agreement. As previously disclosed, we intend to seek payment of the $66 million termination fee from Newco under the Merger Agreement payable under certain circumstances. We cannot assure you that we will be able to collect all or any portion of the termination fee, or that our efforts will not result in adverse consequences to us. 24 Table of Contents In addition, over the past several years, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the stock prices of many technology companies. These factors, as well as general economic and political conditions or investors’ concerns regarding the credibility of corporate financial statements and the accounting profession, may have a material adverse affect on the market price of our stock in the future. We may be required to record additional significant charges to earnings if our goodwill or intangible assets become impaired, and the recent decline in our stock price heightens this risk. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, we review our amortizable intangible assets and goodwill for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually. The carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable assets may not be recoverable due to factors such as a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced estimates of future cash flows and slower growth rates in our industry or in any of our business units. Estimates of future cash flows are based on an updated long-term financial outlook of our operations. However, actual performance in the near-term or long-term could be materially different from these forecasts, which could impact future estimates. For example, if one of our business units does not meet its near-term and longer-term forecasts, the goodwill assigned to the business unit could be impaired. Similarly, a significant decline in our stock price and/or market capitalization may result in goodwill impairment for one or more business units. We may be required to record a charge to earnings in our financial statements during a period in which an impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined to exist, which may negatively impact our results of operations. In light of the recent decline in our stock price, the impairment risk described above is heightened. For example, in the three-month period ended May 30, 2008, we took a charge of $158.0 million relating to impairment of the goodwill of our TippingPoint segment. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 