ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk factors may affect our future business and results. The matters discussed below could cause our future results to differ materially from past results or those described in forward-looking statements and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. Risk Related to Current Severe Global Economic Conditions and Related Credit Crisis Our Operating Results Have Been Adversely Affected by Current Unfavorable Economic and Credit Conditions in Many Regions of the World and We May Continue to Experience These Conditions. The business conditions in which we operate are subject to rapid and unpredictable change due to the global economic crisis. Many of the world’s economies are in turmoil and severe recession. Very tight credit conditions have made it harder for businesses to access needed capital. These factors have contributed to significant slowdowns in the technology industry in general, and in many of the specific markets and geographies in which we operate, resulting in: • reduced demand for our products in many regions as a result of constraints on information technology-related capital spending by our customers, particularly in the developed markets in North America and Europe; • risk of excess and obsolete inventories; • longer sales cycles; • delayed and/or cancelled purchases due to factors such as tight credit conditions and unfavorable local currency translation (noting that we denominate sales in USD in most locations outside of China); and • risk of longer cash cycles as customers take longer to pay us for products and services and some customers deal with insolvency issues. Our business is heavily dependent on China, a country whose historic strong growth rates have slowed significantly over the last year. In addition, the challenges we have seen in two of our other major regions, North America and Western Europe, continue. The worldwide slowdown is also impacting many countries in other geographies in which we operate, such as Eastern Europe, Asia Pacific (ex-China), the Middle East and Latin America. We cannot predict the duration or severity of the current global economic crisis, and we cannot know the ultimate extent of its impact on our industry. These factors make it more challenging to predict our future performance. If global economic and credit conditions in the major regions in which we operate, particularly in China, persist, spread, or deteriorate further, or if we cannot respond with strategies that maximize our ability to perform in this challenging business environment, we may continue to experience a material and negative impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Risks Related to Ability to Sustain and Increase Profitability and the Impact of our Secured Indebtedness While we earned a profit in our 2009 fiscal year, we have incurred significant net losses in recent fiscal periods, including $228.8 million for the 2008 fiscal year, and we may not be able to sustain or increase this profitability in the future. While we returned to profitability in our 2009 fiscal year, we have incurred significant net losses for many years prior and cannot assure you that we will be able to sustain or increase our profitability. We face a number of challenges that have affected our operating results during the current and past several fiscal years. Specifically, we have experienced, and may continue to experience, the following: • declining sales in certain regions; • operating expenses that, as a percentage of sales, have exceeded our desired financial model; 15 Table of Contents • significant senior leadership and other management changes; • significant non-cash accounting charges; • increased sales and marketing expense as part of a strategy to help grow our market share; and • disruptions and expenses resulting from our workforce reductions and employee attrition. To sustain and increase our profitability, we must maintain or increase our sales, and if we cannot do that, we may need to further reduce costs. As we have implemented significant cost reduction programs over the last several years, it may be difficult to make significant further cost reductions without in turn impacting our sales. In addition, we may choose to reinvest some or all of any realized cost savings in future growth opportunities. Any of these events or occurrences will likely cause our expense levels to continue to be at levels above our desired model. If we cannot overcome these challenges, reduce our expenses and/or increase our revenue, we may not be able to sustain and increase our profitability. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to grow our business. We now have, and for the foreseeable future will continue to have, a significant amount of indebtedness. As of May 29, 2009, our total debt balance was $200 million, of which $48 million is classified as a current liability. Our indebtedness could have significant negative consequences to us. For example, it could: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing; • require the dedication of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to satisfy debt obligations, reducing the availability of capital to finance operations and growth; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to our competitors with less debt. Covenants in the agreements governing our senior secured loan materially restrict our H3C subsidiary’s operations based in China, including H3C’s ability to incur debt, pay dividends, make certain investments and payments, make acquisitions of other businesses and encumber or dispose of assets. In addition, in the event H3C’s financial results do not meet our plans, the failure to comply with the financial covenants contained in the loan agreements could lead to a default. An event of default, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on us because the lenders will be able to accelerate all outstanding amounts under the loan or foreclose on the collateral (which consists primarily of our H3C business). In addition, if the LIBOR rate increases, our interest obligations, which are based on LIBOR, will increase. Our interest obligations are also dependent on our “leverage ratio,” as defined under the credit agreement; if the ratio increases above specified levels (i.e., because H3C financial results decrease), our interest obligations will increase. Any of these actions could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. In recent years, we have generated most of our positive cash flow from operations from our China business, and our operations outside of China have been mostly cash flow negative. The credit agreement limits our ability to dividend cash outside of China (i.e., outside of the H3C group) and requires that a substantial portion of H3C’s cash flow be used to pay down debt obligations. Accordingly, we cannot use cash generated in China to fund our operations outside of China (except under certain conditions we are permitted to dividend outside of China a portion of H3C’s annual excess cash flow (as defined by the credit agreement)). Because available and permitted dividends under the credit agreement are determined by H3C’s consolidated excess cash flow and leverage ratio (as defined under the Credit Agreement), if H3C’s results decrease, the permitted dividends, if any, we can make to our operations outside of China will likely decrease. If we do not generate or maintain appropriate cash on hand on a worldwide basis to finance operations and make investments where needed or desired, our business results and growth objectives may suffer; in particular, our 16 Table of Contents cash balances outside of China could fall below our desired levels, particularly if we do not meet the conditions necessary to dividend cash up from China. Risks Related to China-based Sales region and Dependence Thereon We are significantly dependent on our China-based segment; if it is not successful we will likely experience a material adverse impact to our business, business prospects and operating results. For the fiscal quarter ended May 29, 2009, our China-based sales region was profitable, accounted for approximately 55 percent of our consolidated revenue and was our only region to generate positive cash flow from operations. Our China-based sales region is subject to specific risks relating to its ability to: • maintain a leading position in the networking equipment market in China; • develop and execute strategies to operate successfully in the current global economic downturn, which has negatively impacted the Chinese economy; • build profitable operations in other emerging markets throughout the world, but particularly in the Asia Pacific region; • offer new and innovative products and services to attract and retain a larger customer base; • increase awareness of the H3C brand and continue to develop customer loyalty; • respond to rapidly changing competitive market conditions; • respond to changes in the regulatory environment; • manage risks associated with intellectual property rights; • maintain effective control of costs and expenses; and • attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. In China, we face competition from domestic Chinese industry participants, and as a foreign-owned business may not be as successful in selling to Chinese customers, particularly those in the public sector, to the extent that such customers favor Chinese-owned competitors. We expect that a significant portion of our sales will continue to be derived from our China-based sales region for the foreseeable future. As a result, we are subject to economic, political, legal and social developments in China and surrounding areas; we discuss risks related to the PRC in further detail below. In addition, because we already have a significant percentage of the market share in China for enterprise networking products, our opportunities to grow market share in China are more limited than in the past. Our China-based sales region has experienced growth since its inception in part due to the growth in China’s technology industry, which may not be representative of future growth or be sustainable. We cannot assure you that our China-based sales region’s historical financial results are indicative of its future operating results or future financial performance, or that its profitability will be sustained or increased. Given the significance of our China-based sales region to our financial results, if it is not successful, our business will likely be adversely affected. We are dependent on Huawei Technologies, or Huawei, as a significant customer; if, as expected, Huawei significantly reduces its business with us, it will likely materially adversely affect our business results. We historically have and currently derive a material portion of our sales from Huawei, which formerly held a significant investment in our H3C subsidiary. In the three months ended May 29, 2009, which includes results from our China-based sales region’s March 31, 2009 quarter, Huawei accounted for approximately 27 percent of the revenue for our China-based sales region and approximately 15 percent of our consolidated revenue. Huawei’s percentage of our China-based sales region’s revenues has been trending downward from 46 percent during the 3 months ended November 30, 2006, to the current level. We expect Huawei to continue to reduce its business with us and we believe that its purchases in absolute dollars will likely decrease 17 Table of Contents significantly. Huawei does not have any minimum purchase requirements under our existing OEM agreement, which expires in November 2010. We believe it is likely Huawei will source products from another vendor or internally develop products it currently purchases from us. If any of these events occur, it will likely have an adverse impact on our sales and business performance. In order to minimize any adverse impact on our results from any decreased sales to Huawei, we need to successfully execute on our business strategies including, without limitation, increasing direct touch sales of enterprise-class products inside and outside of China. If we are not successful in these efforts, the risks described above, including adverse impacts to our financial results, may be heightened. Risk Related to Core Business Strategy If we cannot increase our enterprise account business outside of China, leveraging China as our “home market,” we likely will not reach our growth and profitability goals. We strive to be increasingly successful in direct-touch sales for larger enterprise and government accounts in all geographic regions. In China, where we are already an established provider of networking equipment to enterprise-class customers under the H3C brand, we desire to maintain our market share. Our strategy also involves leveraging China as our “home market” for enterprise-class solutions, developing and introducing new products in China and then marketing and selling them to other regions in the global marketplace where we desire to increase our market share. To increase market share outside of China and develop a global enterprise brand we must be increasingly successful in capturing larger enterprise and government opportunities (in addition to our small-and-medium size business). Such efforts will likely require a greater investment in sales and marketing, as well as the provision and maintenance of a global service organization that can respond to these customers. The sales cycle is generally longer for enterprise accounts (possibly yielding uneven and unpredictable revenue from quarter to quarter) when compared to our small-and-medium-size business. We also expect intense competition from larger industry participants, many of whom possess a significantly larger market share and installed base than us. We will also need to be perceived by decision making officers of large enterprises as committed for the long-term to the high-end networking business. We will also need to compete favorably on the offering of features and functionality that these enterprise customers demand; if our competitors are more effective at such efforts, our ability to convert pipeline opportunities into sales will suffer. We seek to develop and expand our global channel for our H3C product portfolio, in particular outside of China. Our push to further expand sales to large enterprises may be disruptive in a variety of ways, including the risk our increased direct-touch sales efforts are perceived by existing channel partners as competitive or viewed by market participants as indicating a diminished focus on the small-and-medium business market. We will need to maintain an infrastructure that permits us to effectively document, process, manage, ship and account for these larger transactions. To gain market share, our new global branding strategy (H3C for enterprise, 3Com for small-and-medium business and TippingPoint for security solutions) must be positively received by our customers, potential customers and channel partners. Finally, our recent increased efforts in marketing, public relations and investor relations involve risks such as management diversion and additional expense, and it is possible these efforts may not prove successful. If we fail to manage a transition outside of China to a business model focused more heavily on enterprise-class business, we will not achieve our business goals and our business results may suffer. Our strategy also involves execution of our integration efforts. Our H3C acquisition significantly increased the size, scope and complexity of 3Com, and we have since taken actions designed to maximize the potential of our integrated company. Overall, we seek to address the different cultures, languages and business processes of the two companies, and to leverage H3C and its brand on a global basis. Integration efforts may include streamlined research and development/engineering functions; coordinated product line management efforts; integrated sales and marketing, general and administrative, IT and supply chain functions; new branding strategies; and continued exploration of further initiatives to reduce expenses and unify the companies. We have also recently announced an effort to more fully integrate our TippingPoint business. If we are not successful in executing the integration strategies we choose to implement, our business may be harmed. 18 Table of Contents Risk Related to Personnel Our success is dependent on continuing to hire and retain qualified managers and other personnel and reducing senior management turnover; if we are not successful in attracting and retaining key personnel, our business will suffer. Competition for qualified employees is intense. If we fail to attract, hire, or retain qualified personnel, our business will be harmed. We have experienced significant turnover in our senior management team outside of China in the last several years and we may continue to experience change at this level. If we cannot retain qualified senior managers, and provide stability in the senior management team to enable them to work together for an extended period of time, our business may not succeed. The senior management team at our China-based sales segment has been highly effective. We need to continue to incentivize and retain China-based management. We cannot be sure we will be successful in these efforts. If we are not successful, our China-based sales region may suffer, which, in turn, will have a material adverse impact on our consolidated business. Many of these senior managers, and other key China-based employees, originally worked for Huawei prior to the inception of our former joint venture in China. Subject to non-competition agreements with us (if applicable), these employees could return to work for Huawei at any time. Huawei is not subject to any non-solicitation obligations with respect to us. Further, former Huawei employees employed by us may retain financial interests in Huawei. Risks Related to Competition Intense competition in the market for networking solutions and new or developing product markets could prevent us from increasing revenue and profitability. The market for networking solutions is intensely competitive. In particular, Cisco Systems, Inc., or Cisco, maintains a significant leadership position in this market and several of its products compete directly with our products. Cisco’s substantial resources and market leadership have enabled it to compete aggressively. Purchasers of networking solutions may choose Cisco because of its broader product line, larger installed base, substantial services organization and strong reputation in the networking market. In addition, Cisco may have developed, or could in the future develop, new technologies that directly compete with our products or render our products obsolete. We cannot assure you we will be able to compete successfully against Cisco. We also compete with several other significant companies in the networking industry. Some of our current and potential competitors have greater market leverage, longer operating histories, greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources, stronger name recognition, broader partnerships with systems integrators and enterprise channel partners and larger installed customer bases. Additionally, we may face competition from new or previously unknown companies that may offer new competitive networking solutions and/or alternative technologies that displace the need for some of our products or services. We also face the possibility that consolidation in our industry could result in two or more of our competitors becoming a single competitor with greater resources, broader sales coverage and superior products. As we focus on new market opportunities — for example, IP storage and IP video surveillance and other advanced technologies and emerging technologies — we will increasingly compete with large telecommunications equipment suppliers as well as startup companies. We cannot assure you we will compete favorably against these competitors for these market opportunities. In order to remain competitive, we must, among other things, invest significant resources in developing new products with superior performance at lower prices than our competitors, enhance our current products and maintain customer satisfaction. If we fail to do so, our products may not compete favorably with those of our competitors and our revenue and profitability could suffer. 19 Table of Contents Our competition with Huawei in the enterprise networking market could have a material adverse effect on our sales and our results of operations, particularly if Huawei increases its level of competition against us. As Huawei expands its operations, offerings and markets, there could be increasing instances where we compete directly with Huawei in the enterprise networking market. As a significant customer of our China-based segment, Huawei has had, and continues to have, access to H3C products for resale. This access enhances Huawei’s current ability to compete directly with us both in China and in the rest of the world. In addition, Huawei’s obligation not to offer or sell enterprise class, and small-to-medium size business (or SMB), routers and switches that are competitive with H3C products recently expired. Accordingly, we risk increased competition from enterprise products that Huawei internally develops and markets or sources from our equipment manufacturer competitors. Huawei currently sells products purchased from us to carrier customers (who purchase for themselves and their own enterprise customers), and it is possible Huawei will also market and sell more directly to enterprise customers in the future. Moreover, Huawei maintains a strong presence within China and the Asia Pacific region and possesses significant competitive resources, including vast engineering talent and ownership of the assets of Harbour Networks, a China-based competitor that possesses enterprise networking products and technology. We cannot predict the extent to which Huawei will compete with us. If Huawei increases its competition with us, or if we do not compete favorably with Huawei, it is likely that our business results, particularly in the Asia Pacific region and specifically in China, will be materially and negatively affected. Risks Related to Business and Technology Strategy Our industry is characterized by a short product life cycle, and we may not be successful at identifying and responding to new and emerging market, technology and product opportunities, or at responding quickly enough to technologies or markets that are in decline. Our success depends on our ability to: • identify new market and product opportunities; • predict which technologies and markets will see declining demand; • develop and introduce new products and solutions in a timely manner; • gain market acceptance of new products and solutions; and • rapidly and efficiently transition our customers from older to newer enterprise networking technologies. Accordingly, our business will likely suffer if: • there is a delay in introducing new products; • we lose key channel partners; • our products do not satisfy customers in terms of features, functionality or quality; or • our products cost more to produce than we expect. The enterprise networking industry in which we compete is characterized by rapid changes in technology and customer requirements and evolving industry standards. For example, our success depends on the convergence of technologies (such as voice, video and data) and the timely adoption and market acceptance of industry standards. Slow market acceptance of new technologies, products, or industry standards could adversely affect our sales or overall results of operations. In addition, if our technology is not included in an industry standard on a timely basis or if we fail to achieve timely certification of compliance to industry standards for our products, our sales of such products or our overall results of operations could be adversely affected. 20 Table of Contents We rely on our large research and development base in Beijing, China to develop and design most of our new technologies, products and solutions. These engineers develop products for all of the global markets in which we participate and must design solutions for the developed world as well as for China and other emerging markets. Developed markets may have different products features and customer requirements than emerging markets, and we must timely develop product solutions that satisfy our customers on a worldwide basis. If we are not successful at these efforts, our business will suffer. Risks Related to Operations and Distribution Channels If we are not successful at partnering with system integrators and expanding our base of enterprise channel partners, reaching our growth and profitability goals will be more challenging and we will likely not reach our full potential. A significant portion of enterprise networking business is conducted through and with the assistance of system integrators, or SIs, and enterprise channel partners, including value-added resellers. The industry leaders with whom we compete as a general matter maintain significant relationships with at least one SI and in some cases have stronger enterprise channels. We seek to develop and expand our global channel for our H3C product portfolio, in particular outside of China. If we are not successful at increasing the number of partnerships we maintain with these types of organizations or if the strategic relationships we enter into are not effective or successful, it will be more difficult to reach our goals, and we likely will not reach our full potential to be a leading, truly global enterprise networking company. A significant portion of our sales is derived from a small number of distributors. If any of these channel partners reduces its business with us, our business could be adversely affected. We distribute many of our products through two-tier distribution channels that include distributors and value added resellers, or VARs. In some instances, we also use a system integrator. A significant portion of our sales is concentrated among a few distributors; our two largest distributors accounted for a combined 16 percent of our consolidated revenue for the three months ended May 29, 2009. If either of these distributors reduces its business with us, our sales and overall results of operations could be adversely affected. We work closely with our distributors to monitor channel inventory levels and ensure that appropriate levels of products are available to resellers and end users. We maintain target ranges for channel inventory levels for supply on hand at our distributors. Partners with a below-average inventory level may incur “stock outs” that would adversely impact our sales. Our distribution agreements typically provide that our distributors may cancel their orders on short notice with little or no penalty. If our channel partners reduce their levels of inventory of our products, our sales would be negatively impacted during the period of change. We may be unable to manage our supply chain successfully, which would adversely impact our sales, gross margin and profitability. Our supply chain function involves the management of numerous external suppliers, vendors and contract manufacturers. We source component parts for our products from numerous vendors and outsource principally all of our manufacturing, a significant portion of our logistics and fulfillment functions and a portion of our service and repair functions. If we cannot adequately manage our supply chain, our business results and financial condition will likely suffer. Our ability to manage our supply chain successfully is subject to the following risks, among others: • our ability to accurately forecast demand for our products and services; • our reliance on, and long-term arrangements with, third-party manufacturers (which places much of the supply chain process out of our direct control, heightens the need for accurate forecasting and reduces our ability to transition quickly to alternative supply chain strategies); and • our ability to minimize disruptions to our logistics and effectively manage disruptions that do occur. 21 Table of Contents We cannot be certain that in the future our suppliers will be able or willing to meet our demand for components in a timely and cost-effective manner. There has been a trend toward consolidation of vendors of electronic components. Our reliance on a smaller number of vendors and the inability to quickly switch vendors increases the risk of logistics disruptions, unfavorable price fluctuations or disruptions in supply. From time-to-time, supplies of certain key components have become tighter. We risk adverse impact to our gross margin to the extent there is a resulting increase in component costs and time necessary to obtain these components. If overall demand for our products or the mix of demand for our products is significantly different from our expectations, we may face inadequate or excess component supply or inadequate or excess manufacturing capacity. This would result in orders for products that could not be manufactured in a timely manner, or a buildup of inventory that could not easily be sold. Either of these situations could adversely affect our market share, sales and results of operations or financial position. If we fail to adequately evolve our financial and managerial control and reporting systems and processes, our ability to manage and grow our business may be negatively affected. Our ability to successfully offer our products and services and implement our business plan in a rapidly evolving market depends in part upon effective planning and management processes and systems. Our company has undergone substantial change in the last several years, including strategic changes, operational changes, personnel changes and structural changes. We have had significant turnover in the executive management team and other parts of our employee population, acquired H3C (which has experienced considerable growth over a short period of time and now represents more than half of our revenue) and implemented substantial downsizing in our businesses and infrastructure outside of China. In spite of these changes, we will need to continue to improve, integrate and upgrade our financial and managerial control and our reporting systems and procedures in order to manage our business effectively, analyze and make sound business decisions and improve efficiencies. If we fail to implement improved systems and processes, our ability to manage our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Risks Related to our Operations in the People’s Republic of China China’s legal and regulatory regime and changing political and economic environment may impact our business in China. As a result of the historic reforms of the past several decades, multiple government bodies are involved in regulating and administrating affairs in the technology industry in China. These government agencies have broad discretion and authority over various aspects of the networking, telecommunications and information technology industry in China; accordingly their decisions may impact our ability to do business in China. Any of the following changes in China’s political and economic conditions, laws, regulations and governmental policies could have a substantial impact on our business: • the promulgation of new laws and regulations and the interpretation of those laws and regulations; • enforcement and application of rules and regulations by the Chinese government; • the introduction of measures to control growth or inflation or stimulate growth; • any actions that limit our ability to develop, manufacture, import or sell our products in China, or export our products outside of China, or to finance and operate our business in China; or • laws, rules or regulations that negatively impact our ability to pay dividends from China to outside of China, or impose restrictions (including conditions or timing restrictions) or additional taxes on such dividends. Due to our dependence on China, if China were to experience a broad and prolonged economic slowdown, our results of operations would suffer. China has been adversely impacted by the global economic slowdown, and government efforts to restore growth rates may not be effective. The Chinese government has also from time-to-time implemented certain measures to control the pace of economic growth. Such measures 22 Table of Contents may cause a decrease in the level of economic activity in China, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Uncertainties with respect to the Chinese legal and regulatory system may adversely affect us. We conduct our business in China primarily through H3C Technologies Co., Limited, a Hong Kong entity which in turn owns several Chinese entities. These entities are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China. In addition, there are uncertainties regarding the interpretation and enforcement of laws, rules, regulations and policies in China. Because many laws and regulations are relatively new and the Chinese legal and regulatory system is still evolving, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and local provincial or central authorities may exercise significant discretion in applying them. Moreover, the interpretation of statutes and regulations may be subject to government policies reflecting domestic political changes. Finally, enforcement of existing laws or contracts based on existing law may be uncertain, and it may be difficult to obtain swift and equitable enforcement, or to obtain enforcement of a judgment by a court of another jurisdiction. Any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management’s attention. Administrative processes and operational decisions are subject to the risks and uncertainties described above, which could result in delays and changed positions. If PRC tax benefits available to us are reduced or repealed, our profitability or cash flow could suffer. Effective January 1, 2008, a new corporate income tax rate of 25 percent (phased-in over time for certain companies) applies to companies subject to income tax in China. Companies which benefited from preferential tax rates and rulings under the previous Chinese tax law can continue to enjoy those concessions, subject to transitional rules. In our case, our principal operating subsidiary in China (H3C) was entitled to tax concessions which began in 2004. These concessions exempted H3C from the PRC income tax for 2004 and 2005 and entitle it to a 50 percent reduction in income tax in 2006-2008. (H3C maintains a calendar fiscal year end.) Calendar 2008 was the final year of the 50 percent reduction. Although the regular rate under the new tax law is 25 percent, the new tax law also provides for a reduced tax rate of 15 percent for companies which qualify as “new and high technology” enterprises. Our H3C subsidiary in China has now qualified for this reduced 15% rate under the new tax law. Therefore we currently expect that our long-term rate in China will be 15%. However, calendar year 2008 was the final year of our tax concessions under the old law and the first year of our 15% reduced rate under the new law. There is currently some uncertainty as to whether we can continue to enjoy the benefit of the final year of our concessions at the same time as the reduced rate under the new law. The final determination of our 2008 statutory income tax rate in China is subject to approval by the local tax office and we expect them to consider the complex rules concerning existing concessions under the transition rules, as well as guidance from the PRC State Tax Administration, in granting this approval. Until this uncertainty is clarified, accounting rules require us to provide for income tax for 2008 at the full 15% rate. Dividends declared and paid by our Chinese subsidiary from post 2007 earnings are currently subject to a 5% withholding tax discussed below. If tax benefits we currently enjoy are withdrawn or reduced, or if new taxes are introduced which have not applied to us before, there would likely be a resulting increase to our statutory tax rates in the PRC. Increases to tax rates in the PRC, where we are profitable, could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. If the Chinese VAT Authorities discontinue, reduce, or defer the VAT Software Subsidy Program, our results will likely be adversely affected. We benefit from a program run by the Chinese authorities which effectively provides us with nontaxable subsidy payments based on a percentage of the value-added tax, or VAT, collected by H3C on the sales of our software. We have recorded substantial income from this program since inception. The VAT subsidy payments are recorded in “other income” on a cash basis when actually received from the government. The timing of the 23 Table of Contents receipt of payments is subject to the discretion of the Chinese tax authorities who must approve our application for the subsidy. The program ends on December 31, 2010 and is subject to the complete discretion of the Chinese tax authorities and may be discontinued, reduced, or deferred at any time. If this occurs, our results of operations will likely be adversely affected. H3C is subject to restrictions on paying dividends and making other payments to us. Chinese regulations currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits, as determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. Our principal operating entity in China is required to set aside a portion of its after-tax profits — currently 10 percent up to 50% of registered capital — according to Chinese regulations, to fund certain reserves. The Chinese government also imposes controls on the conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies and the remittance of currencies out of China. We may experience difficulties in completing the administrative procedures necessary to obtain and remit foreign currency. These restrictions may in the future limit our ability to receive dividends or repatriate funds from China or impact the timing of such payments. In addition, as discussed elsewhere in this Risk Factors section, the credit agreement governing our senior secured loan also imposes significant restrictions on our ability to pay dividends or make other payments from China to our other segments. Because available and permitted dividends under the credit agreement are determined by H3C’s consolidated excess cash flow and leverage ratio (as defined under the Credit Agreement), if H3C’s results decrease, the permitted dividends, if any, will likely decrease. While we are in default, or event of default, under the credit agreement we may not make permitted dividend payments. Finally, under a new PRC tax law all distributions of earnings realized from 2008 onwards from our PRC subsidiaries to our subsidiary in Hong Kong will be subject to a withholding tax at a rate of 5%. Our main PRC subsidiary generates the cash used to pay principal and interest on our H3C loan. Accordingly, we will in the future be required to earn proportionately higher profits in the PRC to service principal and interest on our loan, or be forced to fund any deficiencies from cash generated from other geographies. In sum, if we do not generate or maintain appropriate cash on hand on a worldwide basis to finance operations and make investments where needed or desired, our business results and growth objectives may suffer; in particular, our cash balances outside of China could fall below our desired levels. We are subject to risks relating to currency rate fluctuations and exchange controls and we do not hedge this risk in China. Approximately 53 percent of our sales and a portion of our costs are denominated in Renminbi, the Chinese currency. At the same time, our senior secured bank loan — which we intend to service and repay primarily through cash flow from our China-based operations — is denominated in US dollars. In July 2005, China uncoupled the Renminbi from the U.S. dollar and let it float in a narrow band against a basket of foreign currencies. The Renminbi could appreciate or depreciate relative to the U.S. dollar. Any movement of the Renminbi may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues, operating results and financial position, and may make it more difficult for us to service our U.S. dollar-denominated senior secured bank loan. More specifically, if the Renminbi appreciates in value as compared with the U.S. dollar, our reported revenues will derive a beneficial increase due to currency translation; and if the Renminbi depreciates, our revenues will suffer due to such depreciation. This currency translation impacts our expenses as well, but to a lesser degree. In some of our historical periods, we have benefited from the currency translation of Renminbi, but our results may in the future be harmed by it. Our sales around the world are generally denominated in Renminbi (in China) and in US Dollars (in the rest of the world). We use those two currencies to price our products and generally do not accept local currencies as payment for product. When we sell our products in countries outside of China and the U.S. to customers in countries whose currencies have been devalued against the Renminbi or the US Dollar, the currency fluctuation causes the cost of our products to these customers to be higher. We generally do not provide currency exchange risk protection to our customers. For these reasons, when the Renminbi or US Dollar is stronger against local currencies, we may experience delayed or cancelled purchases or general business softness in the relevant region. 24 Table of Contents We do not currently hedge the currency risk in China through foreign exchange forward contracts or otherwise and China employs currency controls restricting Renminbi conversion, limiting our ability to engage in currency hedging activities in China. Various foreign exchange controls are applicable to us in China, and such restrictions may in the future make it difficult for H3C or us to repatriate earnings, which could have an adverse effect on our cash flows and financial position. Risks Related to Intellectual Property If our products contain undetected software or hardware errors, we could incur significant unexpected expenses and could lose sales. High technology products sometimes contain undetected software or hardware errors when new products or new versions or updates of existing products are released to the marketplace. We cannot assure you our testing programs will be adequate to detect all defects. Undetected errors could result in customer dissatisfaction, reduced sales opportunities, higher than expected warranty and service costs and expenses and the recording of an accrual for related anticipated expenses. From time to time, such errors or component failures could be found in new or existing products after the commencement of commercial shipments. These problems may have a material adverse effect on our business by causing us to incur significant warranty and repair costs, diverting the attention of our engineering personnel from new product development efforts, delaying the recognition of revenue and causing significant customer relations problems. Further, if products are not accepted by customers due to such defects, and such returns exceed the amount we accrued for defect returns based on our historical experience, our operating results would be adversely affected. Our products must successfully interoperate with products from other vendors. As a result, when problems occur in a network, it may be difficult to identify the sources of these problems. The occurrence of hardware and software errors, whether or not caused by our products, could result in the delay or loss of market acceptance of our products and any necessary revisions may cause us to incur significant expenses. The occurrence of any such problems would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We may need to engage in complex and costly litigation in order to protect, maintain or enforce our intellectual property rights; in some jurisdictions, such as China, our rights may not be as strong as the rights we enjoy in the U.S. Whether we are defending the assertion of intellectual property rights against us, or asserting our intellectual property rights against others, intellectual property litigation can be complex, costly, protracted, and highly disruptive to business operations because it may divert the attention and energies of management and key technical personnel. Further, plaintiffs in intellectual property cases often seek injunctive relief and the measures of damages in intellectual property litigation are complex and often subjective and uncertain. In addition, such litigation may subject us to counterclaims or other retaliatory actions that could increase its costs, complexity, uncertainty and disruption to the business. Thus, the existence of this type of litigation, or any adverse determinations related to such litigation, could subject us to significant liabilities and costs. Any one of these factors could adversely affect our sales, gross margin, results of operations, cash flow or financial position. In addition, the legal systems of many foreign countries do not protect or honor intellectual property rights to the same extent as the legal system of the United States. For example, in China, the legal system in general, and the intellectual property regime in particular, are still in the development stage. It may be very difficult, time-consuming and costly for us to attempt to enforce our intellectual property rights in these jurisdictions. We may not be able to defend ourselves successfully against claims that we are infringing the intellectual property rights of others. Many of our competitors, such as telecommunications, networking, and computer equipment manufacturers, have large intellectual property portfolios, including patents that may cover technologies that are relevant 25 Table of Contents to our business. In addition, many smaller companies, universities, patent holding companies and individual inventors have obtained or applied for patents in areas of technology that may relate to our business. The industries in which we operate continue to be aggressive in assertion, licensing and litigation of patents and other intellectual property rights. It is very expensive to defend claims of patent infringement and we expect over time to incur significant time and expense to defend these claims and defend, protect, preserve and maintain our portfolio. In the course of our business, we receive claims of infringement or otherwise become aware of potentially relevant patents or other intellectual property rights held by other parties. We evaluate the validity and applicability of these intellectual property rights, and determine in each case whether to negotiate licenses or cross-licenses to incorporate or use the proprietary technologies, protocols, or specifications in our products, and whether we have rights of indemnification against our suppliers, strategic partners or licensors. If we are unable to obtain and maintain licenses on favorable terms for intellectual property rights required for the manufacture, sale, and use of our products, particularly those that must comply with industry standard protocols and specifications to be commercially viable, our financial position or results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, if we are alleged to infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we could be required to seek licenses from others or be prevented from manufacturing or selling our products, which could cause disruptions to our operations or the markets in which we compete. Finally, even if we have indemnification rights in respect of such allegations of infringement from our suppliers, strategic partners or licensors, we may not be able to recover our losses under those indemnity rights. Many of our networking products use open source software, or OSS, licenses. Because OSS is often compiled from multiple components developed by numerous independent parties and usually comes “as is” and without indemnification, OSS is more vulnerable to third party intellectual property infringement claims. Some of the more prominent OSS licenses, such as the GNU General Public License, are the subject of litigation. It is possible that a court could hold such licenses to be unenforceable or someone could assert a claim for proprietary rights in a program developed and distributed under them. Any ruling by a court that these licenses are not enforceable or that open source components of our product offerings may not be liberally copied, modified or distributed may have the effect of preventing us from selling or developing all or a portion of our products. If any of the foregoing occurred, it could cause a material adverse impact on our business. Risks Related to the Trading Market Fluctuations in our operating results and other factors may contribute to volatility in the market price of our stock. Historically, our stock price has experienced volatility. We expect that our stock price may continue to experience volatility in the future due to a variety of potential factors such as: • fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations and cash flow; • changes in our cash and equivalents and short term investment balances; • our ability to execute on our strategic plan, including our core business strategy to leverage China and emphasize larger enterprise business; • general economic conditions, such as the current global economic crisis; • variations between our actual financial results and published analysts’ expectations; and • announcements by our competitors or significant customers. Over the past several years, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the stock prices of many technology companies. These factors, as well as general economic and political conditions or investors’ concerns regarding the credibility of corporate financial statements and the accounting profession, may have a material adverse affect on the market price of our stock in the future. 26 Table of Contents For example, many companies have recently experienced sharp decreases and/or downward pressure on their stock prices as a result of the current global economic downturn. We may be required to record additional significant charges to earnings if our goodwill or intangible assets become impaired. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill and other non-amortizing intangible assets are tested for impairment at least annually. The carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable assets may not be recoverable due to factors such as reduced estimates of future cash flows and slower growth rates in our industry or in any of our business units. Estimates of future cash flows are based on an updated long-term financial outlook of our operations. However, actual performance in the near-term or long-term could be materially different from these forecasts, which could impact future estimates. For example, if one of our business units does not meet its near-term and longer-term forecasts, the goodwill assigned to the business unit could be impaired. Similarly, a significant decline in our stock price and/or market capitalization may result in goodwill impairment for one or more business units. We may be required to record a charge to earnings in our financial statements during a period in which an impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined to exist, which may negatively impact our results of operations. For example, in the three-month period ended May 30, 2008, we took a charge of $158.0 million relating to impairment of the goodwill of our TippingPoint segment. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 