Item 1A. Risk Factors We operate in an evolving industry that presents numerous risks beyond our control that are driven by factors that cannot be predicted. Should any of the risks described in this section or in the documents incorporated by reference in this report actually occur, our business, results of operations, financial condition, or stock price could be materially and adversely affected. Investors should carefully consider the risks factors discussed below, in addition to the other information in this report, before making any investment in our securities. Risks Related to our Overall Business We have incurred significant losses, and may never achieve profitability. If we continue to incur losses, we may have to curtail our operations, which may prevent us from successfully operating and expanding our business. We have a history of significant losses. Historically, we have relied upon cash from debt and equity financing activities to fund substantially all of the cash requirements of our activities and have incurred significant losses and experienced negative cash flow. As of December 31, 2013, we had an accumulated deficit of $94,245,503. For our fiscal years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, we incurred a net loss of $ 24,437,209 and $4,282,265, respectively. We cannot predict when we will become profitable or if we ever will become profitable. We may continue to incur losses for an indeterminate period of time and may never achieve or sustain profitability. An extended period of losses and negative cash flow may prevent us from successfully operating and expanding our business. Even if we are able to achieve profitability, we may be unable to sustain or increase our profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. We are dependent upon our working capital agreements with J.D. Heiskell and Secunderabad Oils Limited. Our ability to operate our Keyes plant depends on maintaining our working capital agreement with J.D. Heiskell, and our ability to operate our biodiesel plant in India depends on maintaining our working capital agreement with Secunderabad Oils Limited. The Heiskell agreement provides for an initial term of one year with automatic one-year renewals; provided, however, that Heiskell may terminate the agreement by notice 90 days prior to the end of the initial term or any renewal term. The current term extends through December 31, 2014. In addition, the agreement may be terminated at any time upon a default, such as payment default, bankruptcy, acts of fraud or material breach under one of the related agreements. The Secunderabad agreement may be terminated at any time by either party upon written notice. If we are unable to maintain these strategic relationships, we will be required to locate alternative sources of working capital and corn supply, which we may be unable to do in a timely manner or at all. If we are unable to maintain our current working capital arrangements or locate alternative sources of working capital, our ability to operate our plants will be negatively affected. Our results from operations are primarily dependent on the spread between the feedstock and energy we purchase and the fuel and other products we sell. The results of our ethanol production business in the U.S. are significantly affected by the spread between the cost of the corn and natural gas that we purchase and the price of the ethanol and distiller grains that we sell. Similarly, in India our biodiesel business is primarily dependent on the price difference between the costs of the feedstock we purchase (principally NRPO and crude glycerin) and the products we sell (principally biodiesel and glycerin). The markets for ethanol, biodiesel, distiller grains, and glycerin are highly volatile and subject to significant fluctuations. Any decrease in the spread between prices of the commodities we buy and sell, whether as a result of an increase in feedstock prices or a reduction in ethanol or biodiesel prices, would adversely affect our financial performance and cash flow and may cause us to suspend production at either of our plants. The price of ethanol is volatile and subject to large fluctuations, and increased ethanol production may cause a decline in ethanol prices or prevent ethanol prices from rising, either of which could adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. The market price of ethanol is volatile and subject to large fluctuations. The market price of ethanol is dependent upon many factors, including the supply of ethanol and the price of gasoline, which is in turn dependent upon the price of petroleum which is also highly volatile and difficult to forecast. Fluctuations in the market price of ethanol may cause our profitability or losses to fluctuate significantly. In addition, domestic ethanol production capacity increased significantly in the last decade. Demand for ethanol may not increase commensurate with increases in supply, which would lead to lower ethanol prices. Demand for ethanol could be impaired due to a number of factors, including regulatory developments and reduced United States gasoline consumption. Reduced gasoline consumption has occurred in the past and could occur in the future as a result of increased gasoline or oil prices. 10 We may be unable to execute our Company’s business plan. The value of our long-lived assets is based on our ability to execute our business plan and generate sufficient cash flow to justify the carrying value of our assets. Should we fall short of our cash flow projections, we may be required to write down the value of these assets under accounting rules and further reduce the value of our assets. We can make no assurances that future cash flows will develop and provide us with sufficient cash to maintain the value of these assets, thus avoiding future impairment to our asset carrying values. As a result, we may need to write down the carrying value of the Company’s long-lived assets. In addition, we plan to implement our own or a third party’s technology at the Keyes ethanol plant and at the India biodiesel plant for the production of advanced fuels and specialty chemicals. After we design and engineer a specific integrated upgrade to either or both plants to allow us to produce products other than their existing products, we may not receive permission from the regulatory agencies to install the process at one or both plants. Additionally, even if we are able to install and begin operations of an integrated advanced fuels and/or specialty chemical plant, we cannot assure you that the technology will work and produce cost effective products because we have never designed, engineered nor built this technology into an existing bio-refinery. Any inability to execute our Company’s business plan may have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial position, and ability to continue as a going concern. We are dependent on, and vulnerable to any difficulties of, our principal suppliers and customers. We buy all of the feedstock for the Keyes plant from one supplier, J.D. Heiskell. Under our Agreements with Heiskell, we are only permitted to purchase feedstock from other suppliers upon the satisfaction of certain conditions. In addition, we have contracted to sell all of the WDG, CDS, corn oil and ethanol we produce at the Keyes Plant to Heiskell. Heiskell, in turn, sells all ethanol produced at the Keyes plant to Kinergy Marketing and all WDG and syrup to A.L. Gilbert. If Heiskell were to fail to deliver adequate feedstock to our plant or fail to purchase all the product we produce, if Kinergy were to fail to purchase all of the ethanol we produce, if A.L. Gilbert were to fail to purchase all of the WDG and syrup we produce, or if any of them were otherwise to default on our agreements with them or fail to perform as expected, we may be unable to find replacement suppliers or purchasers, or both, in a reasonable time or on favorable terms, any of which could materially adversely affect our results from operations and financial results. We are currently in default on our term loan with the State Bank of India. On March 10, 2011, one of our subsidiaries, Universal Biofuels Pvt. Ltd. (“UBPL”), received a demand notice from the State Bank of India under the Agreement of Loan for Overall Limit dated as of June 26, 2008. The notice informed UBPL that an event of default has occurred for failure to make an installment payment on the loan commencing June 2009 and demands repayment of the entire outstanding indebtedness of 19.60 crores (approximately $3.2 million) together with all accrued interest thereon and any applicable fees and expenses. Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of the default, interest accrues at the default interest rate of 2% above the State Bank of India Advance Rate pursuant to the agreement.. The State Bank of India has filed a legal case before the Debt Recovery Tribunal (“DRT”), Hyderabad, for recovery of approximately $5.8 million against the Company and also impleaded Andhra Pradesh Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (“APIIC”) to expedite the registration of the sale deed of the property on which the UBPL facility is located. If the Company is unable to prevail with in this legal case, DRT may pass a decree for recovery of the amount due, which may include seizing property. Interest continues to accrue at the default rate in the amount of approximately $48,000 per month during the continuance of default. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Our business is dependent on external financing and cash from operations to service debt and provide future growth. The adoptions of new technologies at our ethanol and biodiesel plants, along with working capital, are financed in part through debt facilities. We may need to seek additional financing to continue or grow our operations. However, generally unfavorable credit market conditions may make it difficult to obtain necessary capital or additional debt financing on commercially viable terms or at all. If we are unable to pay our debt we may be forced to delay or cancel capital expenditures, sell assets, restructure our indebtedness, seek additional financing, or file for bankruptcy protection. Debt levels or debt service requirements may limit our ability to borrow additional capital, make us vulnerable to increases in prevailing interest rates, subject our assets to liens, limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions, or place us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors. Should we be unable to generate enough cash from our operations or secure additional financing to fund our operations and debt service requirements, we may be required to postpone or cancel growth projects, reduce our operations, or may be unable to meet our debt repayment schedules. Any one of these events would likely have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial position. There can be no assurance that our existing cash flow from operations will be sufficient to sustain operations and to the extent that we are dependent on credit facilities to fund operations or service debt there can be no assurances that we will be successful at securing funding from our senior lender or significant shareholders. Should the Company require additional financing, there can be no assurances that the additional financing will be available on terms satisfactory to the Company. Our ability to identify and enter into commercial arrangements with feedstock suppliers in India depends on maintaining our operations agreement with Secunderabad Oil Limited, who is currently providing us with working capital for our Kakinada facility. If we are unable to maintain this strategic relationship, our business may be negatively affected. In addition, the ability of Secunderabad to continue to provide us with working capital depends in part on the financial strength of Secunderabad and its banking relationships. If Secunderabad is unable or unwilling to continue to provide us with working capital, our business may be negatively affected. Our ability to enter into commercial arrangements with feedstock suppliers in California depends on maintaining our operations agreement with J.D. Heiskell, who is currently providing us with working capital for our California ethanol plant. If we are unable to maintain this strategic relationship, our business may be negatively affected. In addition, the ability of J.D. Heiskell to continue to provide us with working capital depends in part on the financial strength of J.D. Heiskell and its banking relationships. If J.D. Heiskell is unable or unwilling to continue to provide us with working capital, our business may be negatively affected. There is no assurance that UBPL or the Company will be able to obtain alternative funding in the event the State Bank of India demands payment and immediate acceleration would have a significant adverse impact on UBPL or the Company’s near term liquidity and our ability to operate our biodiesel plant. Our consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments to the classification or carrying values of our assets or liabilities that might be necessary as a result of the outcome of this uncertainty. We may be unable to repay or refinance our Third Eye Capital Notes upon maturity. Under our note facilities with Third Eye Capital Corporation, we owe approximately $72.3 million. Our indebtedness and interests payments under these note facilities are substantial and may adversely affect our cash flow, cash position and stock price. These notes are currently due in July 2014, although we have the option to extend the maturity until January 2015. We have been able to extend our indebtedness in the past, but we may not be able to continue to extend the maturity of these notes. We may not have sufficient cash available at the time of maturity to repay this indebtedness. We have default covenants that may accelerate the maturities of these notes. We may not have sufficient assets or cash flow available to support refinancing these notes at market rates or on terms that are satisfactory to us. If we are unable to extend the maturity of the notes or refinance on terms satisfactory to us, we may be forced to refinance on terms that are materially less favorable, seek funds through other means such as a sale of some of our assets, or otherwise significantly alter our operating plan, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. See Item 7: M&A– Liquidity and Capital Resources. 11 We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting which have materially adversely affected our ability to timely and accurately report our results of operations and financial condition. These material weaknesses have not been fully remediated as of the filing date of this report. We have concluded that, as of December 31, 2013, we had material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and that, as a result, our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal controls over financial reporting were not effective during the period. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. We are in the process of implementing efforts to remediate the identified material weaknesses. Our efforts have been and will continue to be time consuming and expensive. We cannot give any assurance as to when we will complete our efforts to fully remediate these material weaknesses. Any failure to effectively implement our remediation plan, or any difficulties we encounter during implementation, could result in additional material weaknesses or in material misstatements in our financial statements. These misstatements could result in a restatement of our financial statements, could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, or could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our stock price. We face competition for our specialty chemical and transportation fuels products from providers of petroleum-based products and from other companies seeking to provide alternatives to these products, many of whom have greater resources and experience than we do, and if we cannot compete effectively against these companies we may not be successful. Our renewable products compete with both the traditional, largely petroleum-based specialty chemical and fuels products that are currently being used in our target markets and with the alternatives to these existing products that established enterprises and new companies are seeking to produce. The oil companies, large chemical companies and well-established agricultural products companies with whom we compete are much larger than we are, and have, in many cases, well developed distribution systems and networks for their products. In the transportation fuels market, we compete with independent and integrated oil refiners, advanced biofuels companies and biodiesel companies. Refiners compete with us by selling traditional fuel products and some are also pursuing hydrocarbon fuel production using non-renewable feedstocks, such as natural gas and coal, as well as processes using renewable feedstocks, such as vegetable oil and biomass. We also expect to compete with companies that are developing the capacity to produce diesel and other transportation fuels from renewable resources in other ways. With the emergence of many new companies seeking to produce chemicals and fuels from alternative sources, we may face increasing competition from alternative fuels and chemicals companies. As they emerge, some of these companies may be able to establish production capacity and commercial partnerships to compete with us. If we are unable to establish production and sales channels that allow us to offer comparable products at attractive prices, we may not be able to compete effectively with these companies. The high concentration of our sales within the ethanol production industry could result in a significant reduction in sales and negatively affect our profitability if demand for ethanol declines. We expect our US operations are to be substantially focused on the production of ethanol and its co-products for the foreseeable future. We may be unable to shift our business focus away from the production of ethanol to other renewable fuels or competing products. Accordingly, an industry shift away from ethanol or the emergence of new competing products may reduce the demand for ethanol. A downturn in the demand for ethanol could materially and adversely affect our sales and profitability. Our operations are subject to environmental, health, and safety laws, regulations, and liabilities. Our operations are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to the discharge of materials into the air, water and ground, the generation, storage, handling, use, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials, access to and impacts on water supply, and the health and safety of our employees. In addition, our operations and sales in India subject us to risks associated with foreign laws, policies, and regulations. Some of these laws and regulations require our facilities to operate under permits or licenses that are subject to renewal or modification. These laws, regulations and permits can require expensive emissions testing and pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit actual or potential impacts to the environment. A violation of these laws and regulations or permits or license conditions can result in substantial fines, natural resource damages, criminal sanctions, permit revocations and facility shutdowns. We may not be at all times in compliance with these laws, regulations, permits or licenses or we may not have all permits or licenses required to operate our business. We may be subject to legal actions brought by environmental advocacy groups and other parties for actual or alleged violations of environmental laws, permits or licenses. In addition, we may be required to make significant capital expenditures on an ongoing basis to comply with increasingly stringent environmental laws, regulations, permit and license requirements. We may be liable for the investigation and cleanup of environmental contamination at the Keyes plant and at off-site locations where we arrange for the disposal of hazardous substances. If hazardous substances have been or are disposed of or released at sites that undergo investigation or remediation by regulatory agencies, we may be responsible under CERCLA or other environmental laws for all or part of the costs of investigation and remediation, and for damage to natural resources. We also may be subject to related claims by private parties alleging property damage and personal injury due to exposure to hazardous or other materials at or from those properties. Some of these matters may require us to expend significant amounts for investigation, cleanup or other costs. New laws, new interpretations of existing laws, increased governmental enforcement of environmental laws or other developments could require us to make additional significant expenditures. Continued government and public emphasis on environmental issues can be expected to result in increased future investments for environmental controls at our production facilities. Environmental laws and regulations applicable to our operations now or in the future, more vigorous enforcement policies and discovery of currently unknown conditions may require substantial expenditures that could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Emissions of carbon dioxide resulting from manufacturing ethanol are not currently subject to permit requirements. If new laws or regulations are passed relating to the production, disposal or emissions of carbon dioxide, we may be required to incur significant costs to comply with such new laws or regulations. 12 Our business is affected by greenhouse gas and climate change regulation. The operations at our Keyes plant will result in the emission of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. In March 2010, the EPA released its final regulations on the Renewable Fuels Standard Program, or RFS2. We believe the EPA’s final RFS2 regulations grandfather the Keyes facility we operate at its current capacity, however, compliance with future legislation may require us to take action unknown to us at this time that could be costly, and require the use of working capital, which may or may not be available, preventing us from operating as planned, which may have a material adverse effect on our operations and cash flow. A change in government policies may cause a decline in the demand for our products. The domestic ethanol industry is highly dependent upon a myriad of federal and state regulations and legislation, and any changes in legislation or regulation could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. Other federal and state programs benefiting ethanol generally are subject to U.S. government obligations under international trade agreements, including those under the World Trade Organization Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures, and may be the subject of challenges, in whole or in part. Growth and demand for ethanol and biodiesel is largely driven by federal and state government mandates or blending requirements, such as the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS). Any change in government policies could have a material adverse effect our business and the results of our operations. Ethanol can be imported into the United States duty-free from some countries, which may undermine the domestic ethanol industry. Production costs for ethanol in these countries can be significantly less than in the United States and the import of lower price or lower carbon value ethanol from these countries may reduce the demand for domestic ethanol and depress the price at which we sell our ethanol. Waivers of the RFS minimum levels of renewable fuels included in gasoline could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Under the Energy Policy Act, the U.S. Department of Energy, in consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of Energy, may waive the renewable fuels mandate with respect to one or more states if the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency determines that implementing the requirements would severely harm the economy or the environment of a state, a region or the nation, or that there is inadequate supply to meet the requirement. Any waiver of the RFS with respect to one or more states would reduce demand for ethanol and could cause our results of operations to decline and our financial condition to suffer. In November 2013, the EPA proposed a waiver to the RFS by to reducing the RFS for 2014 from the previous requirement of 18.15 billion gallons to a revised level of 15.21 billion gallons. The EPA proposal represents a reduction of approximately 16% from the original RFS fuel volume for 2014. The EPA conducted a 60 day comment period following the proposed waiver announcement, and subsequently announced that a final determination on the revised 2014 RFS requirements will be announced in, “late spring or early summer,” of 2014. We may encounter unanticipated difficulties in converting the Keyes plant to accommodate alternative feedstocks, new chemicals used in the fermentation and distillation process, or new mechanical production equipment. In order to improve the operations of the Keyes plant and execute on our business plan, we intend to modify the plant to accommodate alternative feedstocks and new chemical and/or mechanical production processes. We may not be able successfully to implement these modifications, and they may not function as we expect them to. These modifications may cost significantly more to complete than our estimates. The plant may not operate at nameplate capacity once the changes are complete. If any of these risks materialize, they could have a material adverse impact on our results of operation and financial position. We may be subject to liabilities and losses that may not be covered by insurance. Our employees and facilities are subject to the hazards associated with producing ethanol and biodiesel. Operating hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, damage to, or destruction of, property, plant and equipment and environmental damage. We maintain insurance coverage in amounts and against the risks that we believe are consistent with industry practice. However, we could sustain losses for uninsurable or uninsured risks, or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. Events that result in significant personal injury or damage to our property or to property owned by third parties or other losses that are not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. Insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and quantify due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties, the number of incidents not reported and the effectiveness of our safety program. If we were to experience insurance claims or costs above our coverage limits or that are not covered by our insurance, we might be required to use working capital to satisfy these claims rather than to maintain or expand our operations. To the extent that we experience a material increase in the frequency or severity of accidents or workers’ compensation claims, or unfavorable developments on existing claims, our operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Our success depends in part on recruiting and retaining key personnel and, if we fail to do so, it may be more difficult for us to execute our business strategy. Our success depends on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management, manufacturing and scientific personnel. We do not maintain any key man insurance. Competition for qualified personnel in the renewable fuel and specialty chemicals manufacturing fields is intense. Our future success will depend on, among other factors, our ability to retain our current key personnel and attract and retain qualified future key personnel, particularly executive management. Failure to attract or retain key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our operations subject us to risks associated with foreign laws, policies, regulations, and markets. Our sales and manufacturing operations in foreign countries are subject to the laws, policies, regulations, and markets of the countries in which we operate. As a result, our foreign manufacturing operations and sales are subject to inherent risks associated with the countries in which we operate. Risks involving our foreign operations include differences or unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, political and economic instability, terrorism and civil unrest, work stoppages or strikes, natural disasters, interruptions in transportation, restrictions on the export or import of technology, difficulties in staffing and managing international operations, variations in tariffs, quotas, taxes, and other market barriers, longer payment cycles, changes in economic conditions in the international markets in which our products are sold, and greater fluctuations in sales to customers in developing countries. If we are unable to effectively manage the risks associated with our foreign operations, our business may experience a material adverse effect on the results of our operations or financial condition. We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Our operations in countries outside the United States, including our operations in India, are subject to anti-corruption laws and regulations, including restrictions imposed by the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”). The FCPA and similar anti-corruption laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We operate in parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances; strict compliance with anti-corruption laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Our employees and agents interact with government officials on our behalf, including interactions necessary to obtain licenses and other regulatory approvals necessary to operate our business. These interactions create a risk that actions may occur that could violate the FCPA or other similar laws. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with local laws and regulations as well as U.S. laws and regulations, including the FCPA, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, consultants, contractors and agents will abide by our policies. If we are found to be liable for violations of the FCPA or similar anti-corruption laws in other jurisdictions, either due to our own acts or out of inadvertence, or due to the acts or inadvertence of others, we could suffer from criminal or civil penalties which could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 13 A substantial portion of our assets and operations are located in India, and we are subject to regulatory, economic and political uncertainties in India. Certain of our principal operating subsidiaries are incorporated in India, and a substantial portion of our assets and are located in India. We intend to continue to develop and expand our facilities in India. The Indian government has exercised and continues to exercise significant influence over many aspects of the Indian economy. India’s government has traditionally maintained an artificially low price for certain commodities, including diesel fuel, through subsidies, but has recently begun to reduce such subsidies, which benefits us. We cannot assure you that liberalization policies will continue. Various factors, such as changes in the current federal government, could trigger significant changes in India’s economic liberalization and deregulation policies and disrupt business and economic conditions in India generally and our business in particular. Our financial performance may be adversely affected by general economic conditions and economic and fiscal policy in India, including changes in exchange rates and controls, interest rates and taxation policies, as well as social stability and political, economic or diplomatic developments affecting India in the future. Currency fluctuations among the Indian Rupee and the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. A substantial portion of our revenues are denominated in Rupees. We report our financial results in U.S. dollars. The exchange rates among the Rupee and the U.S. dollar have changed substantially in recent years and may fluctuate substantially in the future. We do not currently engage in any formal currency hedging of our foreign currency exposure, and our results of operations may be adversely affected if the Rupee fluctuates significantly against the U.S. dollar. We are a holding company and there are significant limitations on our ability to receive distributions from our subsidiaries. We conduct substantially all of our operations through subsidiaries and are dependent on dividends or other intercompany transfers of funds from our subsidiaries to finance our operations. Our subsidiaries have not made significant distributions to the Company and may not have funds available for dividends or distributions in the future. In addition, we may enter into credit, or other, agreements that would contractually restrict our subsidiaries from paying dividends, making distributions, or making intercompany loans to our parent company or to any other subsidiary. In particular, our credit agreement requires us to obtain the prior consent of the lender for dividends or other intercompany fund transfers. If the amount of capital we are able to raise from financing activities, together with our revenues from operations that are available for distribution, are not sufficient to satisfy our ongoing working capital and corporate overhead requirements, even to the extent that we reduce our operations accordingly, we may be required to cease operations. Our Chief Executive Officer has outside business interests which could require time and attention. Eric A. McAfee, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, has outside business interests which include his ownership of McAfee Capital. In addition, Mr. McAfee’s employment agreement requires his devotion of reasonable business efforts and time to the Company. Furthermore, Mr. McAfee is prohibited from engaging in any competitive employment, occupational or consulting services. Although Mr. McAfee’s employment agreement requires that he devote reasonable business efforts to our company, this agreement also permits him to devote time to his outside business interests consistent with past practice. As a result, these outside business interests could interfere with Mr. McAfee’s ability to devote time to our business and affairs. Our business may be subject to natural forces beyond our control. Earthquakes, floods, droughts, tsunamis, and other unfavorable weather conditions may affect our operations. Natural catastrophes may have a detrimental effect on our supply and distribution channels, causing a delay or prevention of our receipt of raw materials from our suppliers or delivery of finished goods to our customers. In addition, weather conditions may adversely impact the planting, growth, harvest, storage, and general availability of any number of the products we may process at our facilities or sell to our customers. The severity of these occurrences, should they ever occur, will determine the extent to which and if our business is materially and adversely affected. We are subject to covenants and other operating restrictions under the terms of our debt, which may restrict our ability to engage in some business transactions. Our debt facilities contain covenants restricting our ability, among others, to: ● incur additional debt; ● make certain capital expenditures; ● incur or permit liens to exist; ● enter into transactions with affiliates; ● guarantee the debt of other entities, including joint ventures; ● merge or consolidate or otherwise combine with another company; and ● transfer, sell or lease our assets These restrictions may limit our ability to engage in business transactions that may be beneficial to the Company, or may restrict our ability to execute our business plan. For further information about our debt facilities please see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources. 14 Operational difficulties at our facilities may negatively impact our business. Our operations may experience unscheduled downtimes due to technical or structural failure, political and economic instability, terrorism and civil unrest, natural disasters, and other operational hazards inherent to our operations. These hazards may cause personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property, equipment, or the environment, and may result in the suspension of operations or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover such potential hazards and we may not be able to renew our insurance on commercially reasonable terms or at all. In addition, any reduction in the yield or quality of the products we produce could negatively impact our ability to market our products. Any decrease in the quality, reduction in volume, or cessation of our operations due to these hazards would have a material adverse effect on the results of our business and financial condition. Our success depends on our ability to manage the growth of our operations. Our strategy envisions a period of rapid growth that may impose a significant burden on our administrative and operational resources and personnel, which if not effectively managed, could impair our growth. The growth of our business will require significant investments of capital and management’s close attention. If we are unable to successfully manage our growth, our sales may not increase commensurately with capital expenditures and investments. Our ability to effectively manage our growth will require us to substantially expand the capabilities of our administrative and operational resources and to attract, train, manage and retain qualified management, technicians and other personnel. In addition to our plans to adopt technologies that expand our operations and product offerings at our biodiesel and ethanol plants, we may seek to enter into strategic business relationships with companies to expand our operations. If we are unable to successfully manage our growth, we may be unable to achieve our business goals, which may have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations and financial condition. Our mergers, acquisitions, partnerships, and joint ventures may not be as beneficial as we anticipate. We have increased our operations through mergers, acquisitions, partnerships, and joint ventures and intend to continue to explore these opportunities in the future. The anticipated benefits of these transactions may take longer to realize than expected, may never be fully realized, or even realized at all. Furthermore, partnerships and joint ventures generally involve restrictive covenants on the parties involved, which may limit our ability to manage these agreements in a manner that is in our best interest. Future mergers, acquisitions, partnerships, and joint ventures may involve the issuance of debt or equity, or a combination of the two, as payment for or financing of the business or assets involved, which may dilute ownership interest in our business. Any failure to adequately evaluate and address the risks of and execute on our mergers, acquisitions, partnerships, and joint ventures could have an adverse material effect on our business, results of operations, and financial position. In connection with such acquisitions and strategic transactions, we may incur unanticipated expenses, fail to realize anticipated benefits, have difficulty incorporating the acquired businesses, our management may become distracted from our core business, and we may disrupt relationships with current and new employees, customers and vendors, incur significant debt, or have to delay or not proceed with announced transactions. The occurrence of any of these events could have an adverse effect on our business. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade name, confidentiality agreements, and other contractual restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. We also enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, and corporate partners, and control access to and distribution of our confidential information. These measures may not preclude the disclosure of our confidential or proprietary information. Despite efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary information. Monitoring unauthorized use of our confidential information is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken to prevent unauthorized use of our confidential information, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect proprietary rights as fully as in the U.S., will be effective. Companies in our industry aggressively protect and pursue their intellectual property rights. From time to time, we receive notices from competitors and other operating companies, as well as notices from “non-practicing entities,” or NPEs, that claim we have infringed upon, misappropriated or misused other parties’ proprietary rights. Our success and future revenue growth will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property. It is possible that competitors or other unauthorized third parties may obtain, copy, use or disclose our technologies and processes, or confidential employee, customer or supplier data. Any of our existing or future patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. We may not be able to successfully develop and commercialize our technologies, which may require us to curtail or cease our research and development activities. Since 2007, we have been developing patent-pending enzyme technology to enable the production of ethanol from a combination of starch and cellulose, or from cellulose alone, and in July 2011, we acquired Zymetis, Inc., a biochemical research and development firm, with several patents pending and in-process R&D utilizing the Z-microbe™ to produce renewable chemicals and advanced fuels from renewable feedstocks. Although, the viability of our technology has been demonstrated in the lab, there can be no assurance that we will be able to commercialize our technology. To date, we have not completed a large-scale commercial prototype of our technology and are uncertain at this time when completion of a commercial scale prototype will occur. Commercialization risks include economic financial feasibility at commercial scale, availability of funding to complete large-scale commercial prototype, ability of Z-microbeTM to function at commercial scale and ability to obtain regulatory approvals, and market acceptance of product. 15 Risks related to ownership of our stock There can be no assurance that a liquid public market for our common stock will exist. Our shares of common stock are quoted on the OTC Markets electronic over-the-counter trading system. A very limited number of our shares of common stock trade on a regular basis and there may not be adequate liquidity in our common stock to settle trades at any given time. There can be no assurance that a regular and established market will be developed and maintained for our common stock. There can also be no assurance as to the strength or liquidity of any market for our common stock or the prices at which holders may be able to sell their shares. It is likely that there will be significant volatility in the trading price of our stock. Market prices for our common stock will be influenced by many factors and will be subject to significant fluctuations in response to variations in our operating results and other factors. Because our business is the operation of our biodiesel and ethanol plants and the future development and operation of next-generation cellulosic ethanol plants, factors that could affect our future stock price, and create volatility in our stock price, include the price and demand for ethanol and biodiesel, the price and availability of oil and gasoline, the political situation in the Middle East, U.S. energy policies, federal and state regulatory changes that affect the price of ethanol or biodiesel, and the existence or discontinuation of legislative incentives for renewable fuels. Our stock price will also be affected by the trading price of the stock of our competitors, investor perceptions of us, interest rates, general economic conditions and those specific to the ethanol or biodiesel industry, developments with regard to our operations and activities, our future financial condition, and changes in our management. Our stock may have risks associated with low priced stocks. Although our common stock currently is quoted and traded on the OTC Bulletin Board, the price at which the stock will trade in the future cannot currently be estimated. Since December 15, 2008, our common stock has traded below $5.00 per share. As a result, trading in our common stock may be subject to the requirements of certain rules promulgated under the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), which require additional disclosure by broker-dealers in connection with any trades involving a stock defined as a penny stock (generally, any non-Nasdaq equity security that has a market price share of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions) and a two business day “cooling off period” before broker and dealers can effect transactions in penny stocks. For these types of transactions, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction before the sale. The broker-dealer also must disclose the commissions payable to the broker-dealer, current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock and, if the broker-dealer is the sole market-maker, the broker-dealer must disclose this fact and the broker-dealer’s presumed control over the market. These, and the other burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by the penny stock requirements, could discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our common stock, which could severely limit the market liquidity of our common stock and the ability of holders of our common stock to sell it. We do not intend to pay dividends. We have not paid any cash dividends on any of our securities since inception and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on any of our securities in the foreseeable future. Our principal shareholders hold a substantial amount of our common stock. Eric A. McAfee, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, Laird Q. Cagan, a former board member, in the aggregate, beneficially own 29.8% of our common stock outstanding. In addition, the other members of our Board of Directors and management, in the aggregate, excluding Eric McAfee, beneficially own approximately 4.1% of our common stock. Our lender, Third Eye Capital, acting as principal and an agent, beneficially owns 17.5% of our common stock. As a result, these shareholders, acting together, will be able to influence many matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of mergers and acquisitions and other significant corporate transactions. See “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.” The interests of these shareholders may differ from yours and this concentration of ownership enables these shareholders to exercise influence over many matters requiring shareholder approval, may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control, and could deprive you of an opportunity to receive a premium for your securities as part of a sale of the company and may affect the market price of our securities. Rule 144 will not be available to holders of restricted shares during any period in which the Company has failed to comply with its reporting obligations under the Exchange Act. From time to time the Company has issued shares in transactions exempt from registration. Shares issued pursuant to exemptions from registration are “restricted securities” within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933. As restricted shares, these shares may be resold only pursuant to an effective registration statement or pursuant to Rule 144 or other applicable exemption from registration under the Securities Act. However, Rule 144 is not available with respect to restricted shares acquired from an issuer that is or was at any time in its past a shell company if the former shell company has failed to file all reports that it is required to file under the Exchange Act during the 12 months preceding the sale. If at any time the Company fails to comply with its reporting obligations under the Exchange Act, Rule 144 will not be available to holders of restricted shares, which may limit your ability to sell your restricted shares. The conversion of convertible securities and the exercise of outstanding options and warrants to purchase our common stock could substantially dilute your investment and reduce the voting power of your shares, impede our ability to obtain additional financing and cause us to incur additional expenses. Our Series B convertible preferred stock is convertible into our common stock. As of December 31, 2013, there were 2.4 million shares of our Series B convertible Preferred Stock outstanding, convertible into shares of our common stock on one to one ratio. Certain of our financing arrangements, such as our Subordinated Notes, our line of credit with Laird Cagan, our arrangements with Third Eye Capital and as part of working capital arrangements with JD Heiskell are convertible into, or contain the right to purchase shares of our common stock at fixed prices. As of December 31, 2013, there were outstanding warrants to purchase 1.6 million shares of our common stock. Additionally, there are outstanding warrants and options to acquire our common stock issued to employees, directors and others. As of December 31, 2013, there were outstanding warrants and options to purchase 13.2 million shares of our common stock. Such securities allow their holders an opportunity to profit from a rise in the market price of our common stock such that conversion of the securities will result in dilution of the equity interests of our common stockholders. The terms on which we may obtain additional financing may be adversely affected by the existence and potentially dilutive impact of our outstanding convertible and other promissory notes, Series B convertible preferred stock, options and warrants. In addition, holders of our outstanding promissory notes and certain warrants have registration rights with respect to the common stock underlying those notes and warrants, the registration of which involves substantial expense. 16 