ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to our Overall Business We have a limited operating history, which makes it difficult to evaluate our financial position and our business plan. We began generating revenue in November 2008 and have limited business operations. Accordingly, there is limited prior operating history by which to evaluate the likelihood of our success or our ability to exist as a going concern. We may never begin or complete construction of a cellulosic ethanol production facility in the United States and although we have been producing and selling biodiesel from our plant in Kakinada, our production and sales have not reached full capacity and there is no assurance that our production and sales from this facility will do so in the near future or at all and we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to become profitable. We are currently in default on our term loan with the State Bank of India On October 7, 2009, UBPL received a demand notice from the State Bank of India under the Agreement of Loan for Overall Limit dated as of June 26, 2008. The notice informs UBPL that an event of default has occurred for failure to make an installment payment on the loan due in June 2009 and demands repayment of the entire outstanding indebtedness of 19.60 crores (approximately $4 million) together with all accrued interest thereon and any applicable fees and expenses by October 10, 2009. Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, interest accrues at the default interest rate of 2% above the State Bank of India Advance Rate pursuant to the Agreement of Loan for Overall Limit. If the entire principal and interest amount of indebtedness under the loan was paid in full, we estimate that the amount would be approximately $4.4 million. Interest continues to accrue at the default rate in the amount of approximately $48,000 per month during the continuance of default. 12 Our auditors’ opinion expresses substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a “going concern.” Our independent auditors’ report on our December 31, 2009 and 2008 financial statements included herein states that the Company has suffered recurring losses and has a working capital deficit and total stockholders’ deficit and that these conditions raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Should the Company not be able to raise enough equity or debt financings it may be forced to sell all or a portion of its existing biodiesel facility or other assets to generate cash to continue the Company’s business plan or possibly discontinue operations. The Company’s consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. We are a holding company, and there are significant limitations on our ability to receive distributions from our subsidiaries. We conduct substantially all of our operations through subsidiaries and are dependent on dividends or other intercompany transfers of funds from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations. Our subsidiaries have not made significant distributions to the Company and may not have funds legally available for dividends or distributions in the future. In addition, we may enter into credit or other agreements that would contractually restrict our subsidiaries from paying dividends, making distributions or making intercompany loans to our parent company or to any other subsidiary. In particular, our credit agreement for the Kakinada refinery requires the prior consent of the lender for dividends or other intercompany fund transfers. If the amount of capital we are able to raise from financing activities, together with our revenues from operations that are available for distribution, are not sufficient to satisfy our ongoing working capital and corporate overhead requirements needs, even to the extent that we reduce our operations accordingly, we may be required to cease operations. We are unable to execute on the Company’s business plan which may result in the need to write down the carrying value of the Company’s long-lived assets. We value our long lived assets based on our ability to execute our business plan, principally in India, and generate sufficient cash flow to justify the carrying value of this asset. Should we fall short of our cash flow projections, we may be required to write down the value of these assets under the accounting rules and further degrade the value of our business. We can make no assurances that our future cash flows will develop and provide us with sufficient cash to maintain the value of these assets, thus avoiding future impairment to our asset carry values. Risks Relating to our U.S. Operations We took possession of the Keyes ethanol plant in 2010, we may encounter unanticipated difficulties in repairing and restarting the plant. In order to restart and operate the the Keyes plant we intend to implement a repair plan on this 55 million gallon per year nameplate capacity plant. The repair plan may cost significantly more than our estimate to complete. The plant may not operate at nameplate capacity once the repairs are complete. In addition, some of the technology utilized at the Keyes plant is currently not in use at any other corn ethanol plant. We are aware of certain plant design issues that may impede the reliable and continuous operation of the plant. We cannot assure you that the repair plan will fix all the design issues. If we are unable to get the plant repaired and restarted, we will not have revenues derived from the sale of ethanol and distillers grain from the plant in 2010. Therefore we would not be able to recover the costs incurred during the repair and restart of the plant. We may also encounter other factors that could prevent us from conducting operations as expected, resulting in decreased capacity or interruptions in production, including shortages of workers or materials, design issues relating to improvements, construction and equipment cost escalation, transportation constraints, adverse weather, unforeseen difficulties or labor issues, or changes in political administrations at the federal, state or local levels that result in policy change towards ethanol in general or our plants in particular. Furthermore, local water, electricity and gas utilities may not be able to reliably supply the resources that our facilities will need or may not be able to supply them on acceptable terms. We expect to start operating and making lease payments on the Keyes ethanol plant in 2010. If the plant is restarted, we may encounter difficulties in running the plant and may not be able to make our lease payments. The Keyes plant operations may be subject to significant interruption if it experiences a major accident or is damaged by severe weather or other natural disasters. In addition, our operations may be subject to labor disruptions, unscheduled downtime or other operational hazards inherent in our industry. Some of these operational hazards may cause personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment or environmental damage, and may result in suspension of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover the potential operational hazards described above and we may not be able to renew our insurance on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Any cessation of operations due to any of the above factors would cause our sales to decrease significantly, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. 13 Our profit margins at the Keyes plant may be adversely affected by fluctuations in the selling price and production cost of gasoline and margins may will be highly dependent on commodity prices, which are subject to significant volatility and uncertainty, and on the availability of raw materials supplies, so our results of operations, financial condition and business outlook may fluctuate substantially. Ethanol is marketed as a fuel additive to reduce vehicle emissions from gasoline, as an octane enhancer to improve the octane rating of the gasoline with which it is blended and, to a lesser extent, as a gasoline substitute. As a result, ethanol prices are influenced by the supply of and demand for gasoline. Our results of operations may be materially harmed if the demand for, or the price of, gasoline decreases. Conversely, a prolonged increase in the price of, or demand for, gasoline could lead the U.S. government to relax import restrictions on foreign ethanol that currently benefit us. Our future results of ethanol plant operations will depend substantially on the prices of various commodities, particularly the prices for ethanol, corn, natural gas and unleaded gasoline. The prices of these commodities are volatile and beyond our control. As a result of the volatility of the prices for these and other items, our results may fluctuate substantially. We may experience periods during which the prices of our products decline and the costs of our raw materials increase, which in turn may result in operating losses or impairment charges and hurt our financial condition. If a substantial imbalance occurred, we may take actions to mitigate the effect of the imbalance, such as storing our uncontracted ethanol for a period of time. These actions could involve additional costs and could have a negative impact on our operating results. The domestic ethanol industry is highly dependent upon a myriad of federal and state legislation and regulation and any changes in legislation or regulation could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. The elimination of, or any significant reduction in, the blenders' credit could have a material impact on our future results of operations and financial position. The cost of production of ethanol is made significantly more competitive as a result of federal tax incentives. A federal excise tax incentive program is currently in place to allow gasoline distributors that blend ethanol with gasoline to receive a federal excise tax rate reduction for each blended gallon they sell. If the fuel is blended with 10% ethanol, the refiner/marketer pays $0.045 per gallon of ethanol sold less tax, which amounts to an incentive of $0.45 per gallon of ethanol. The $0.45 per gallon incentive for ethanol is scheduled to expire on December 31, 2011. It is possible that the blenders' credit will not be renewed beyond 2011 or will be renewed on different terms. In addition, the blenders' credit, as well as other federal and state programs benefiting ethanol (such as tariffs), generally are subject to U.S. government obligations under international trade agreements, including those under the World Trade Organization Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures, and may be the subject of challenges, in whole or in part. Ethanol can be imported into the United States duty-free from some countries, which may undermine the domestic ethanol industry. Imported ethanol is generally subject to a $0.54 per gallon tariff that was designed to offset the "blender's credit" ethanol incentive available under the federal excise tax incentive program for refineries that blend ethanol in their gasoline. A special exemption from the tariff exists for ethanol imported from 24 countries in Central America and the Caribbean Islands, which is limited to a total of 7.0% of U.S. production per year. In addition, the North American Free Trade Agreement, which went into effect on January 1, 1994, allows Canada and Mexico to import ethanol duty-free. Imports from the exempted countries may increase as a result of new plants under development. The tariff is scheduled to expire on December 31, 2010. If it is not extended by Congress, imports of ethanol from non-exempt countries may increase. Production costs for ethanol in these countries can be significantly less than in the United States and the duty-free import of lower price ethanol through the countries exempted from the tariff may reduce the demand for domestic ethanol and the price at which we sell our ethanol. In 2009, global ethanol production reached nearly 20 billion gallons. (Source: RFA). Waivers of the RFS minimum levels of renewable fuels included in gasoline could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. Under the Energy Policy Act, the U.S. Department of Energy, in consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of Energy, may waive the renewable fuels mandate with respect to one or more states if the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency determines that implementing the requirements would severely harm the economy or the environment of a state, a region or the nation, or that there is inadequate supply to meet the requirement. Any waiver of the RFS with respect to one or more states would reduce demand for ethanol and could cause our results of operations to decline and our financial condition to suffer. 14 Our future ethanol plant operations may be adversely affected by environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and liabilities. If we take possession of the plant and if we restart the plant in 2010, we will be subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to the discharge of materials into the air, water and ground, the generation, storage, handling, use, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials, access to and impacts on water supply, and the health and safety of our employees. Some of these laws and regulations require our facilities to operate under permits that are subject to renewal or modification. These laws, regulations and permits can require expensive emissions testing and pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit actual or potential impacts to the environment. A violation of these laws and regulations or permit conditions can result in substantial fines, natural resource damages, criminal sanctions, permit revocations and facility shutdowns. We may not be at all times in compliance with these laws, regulations or permits or we may not have all permits required to operate our business. We may be subject to legal actions brought by environmental advocacy groups and other parties for actual or alleged violations of environmental laws or permits. In addition, we may be required to make significant capital expenditures on an ongoing basis to comply with increasingly stringent environmental laws, regulations and permits. We may be liable for the investigation and cleanup of environmental contamination at the Keyes plant and at off-site locations where we arrange for the disposal of hazardous substances. If these substances have been or are disposed of or released at sites that undergo investigation or remediation by regulatory agencies, we may be responsible under CERCLA, or other environmental laws for all or part of the costs of investigation and remediation, and for damage to natural resources. We also may be subject to related claims by private parties alleging property damage and personal injury due to exposure to hazardous or other materials at or from those properties. Some of these matters may require us to expend significant amounts for investigation, cleanup or other costs. New laws, new interpretations of existing laws, increased governmental enforcement of environmental laws or other developments could require us to make additional significant expenditures. Continued government and public emphasis on environmental issues can be expected to result in increased future investments for environmental controls at our production facilities. Environmental laws and regulations applicable to our operations now or in the future, more vigorous enforcement policies and discovery of currently unknown conditions may require substantial expenditures that could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. For example, carbon dioxide is a co-product of the ethanol manufacturing process and may be released into the atmosphere. Emissions of carbon dioxide resulting from the manufacturing process are not currently subject to applicable permit requirements. If new laws or regulations are passed relating to the production, disposal or emissions of carbon dioxide, we may be required to incur significant costs to comply with such new laws or regulations. The hazards and risks, such as fires, natural disasters, explosions and abnormal pressures and blowouts, associated with producing and transporting ethanol also may result in personal injury claims or damage to property and third parties. We could sustain losses for uninsurable or uninsured risks, or in amounts in excess of our insurance coverage. Events that result in significant personal injury or damage to our property or third parties or other losses that are not fully covered by insurance could materially harm our results of operations and financial condition. We plan to implement our proprietary, patent-pending enzyme technology at the Keyes ethanol plant sometime during the term of the lease. After we design and engineer a specific integrated cellulose and starch ethanol plant upgrade to the Keyes plant to allow the plant to produce up to 25% of its ethanol from cellulosic (non-food) feedstock, we may not receive permission from the plant owners to install the process at the Keyes plant. Additionally, even if we are able to install and begin operations on the cellulosic and starch ethanol plant, we cannot give assurance that our technology will work and produce cost effective ethanol from cellulosic (non-food) feedstocks because we have not designed, engineered nor built an integrated cellulosic and starch ethanol plant before other than our commercial scale demonstration plant in Butte, Montana. 15 Risks Relating to Our India Operations Our manufacturing operations and our sales in India subject us to risks associated with foreign laws, policies, and economies. Our biodiesel manufacturing plant is located in India and we may construct and operate other biodiesel plants in other foreign countries in the future. In 2009 and 2008, approximately 73% and 100% of our biodiesel sales have been to customers in India, respectively, and sales to Indian customers are expected to continue to be an important component of our total sales. Our manufacturing operations and international sales are subject to inherent risks, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Risks affecting our international operations include: ● differences or unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; ● political and economic instability; ● terrorism and civil unrest; ● work stoppages or strikes; ● interruptions in transportation; ● restrictions on the export or import of technology; ● difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; ● variations in tariffs, quotas, taxes and other market barriers; ● longer payment cycles; ● changes in economic conditions in the international markets in which our products are sold; and ● greater fluctuations in sales to customers in developing countries. Our India segment is entirely dependent on the operations of the one biodiesel production facility that we own. An operational disruption at this facility could result in a reduction of our revenues. All of our revenues are, and in the near-term will continue to be, derived from the sale of biodiesel and glycerine produced at our 50 MGY biodiesel production facility in Kakinada. This facility may be subject to significant interruption if it experiences a major accident or is damaged by severe weather or other natural disasters. In addition, this facility may be subject to labor disruptions and unscheduled downtime, or other operational hazards inherent in our industry, such as equipment failures, fires, explosions, pipeline ruptures, transportation accidents and natural disasters. Some of these operational hazards may cause severe damage to, or destruction of, property and equipment or environmental damage, and may result in suspension of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. Our insurance may not be adequate to fully cover the potential operational hazards and resulting business interruption described above or we may be unable to renew this insurance on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Any suspension in our operations will cause our revenues to decline. Our gross margins in our India segment are principally dependent on the spread between feedstock prices and biodiesel prices. If the cost of feedstock increases and the cost of biodiesel does not similarly increase or if the cost of biodiesel decreases and the cost of feedstock does not similarly decrease, our margins will decrease and results of operations will be harmed. Our gross margins depend principally on the spread between feedstock and biodiesel prices. The spread between biodiesel prices and refined palm oil (RPO) or palm stearin prices has fluctuated significantly in recent periods. RPO, which was our principal feedstock in 2008 and 2009, comprised approximately 100% of total costs of biodiesel sales for our Kakinada facility during the years then ended, lacks a direct price relationship to the price of biodiesel. Palm stearin purchases late in the year will be reflected in cost of goods sold for sales in early 2010. The prices of RPO and palm stearin are influenced by general economic, market and regulatory factors. Any conditions that negatively impact the supply of RPO or palm stearin, such as decreased acres planted by farmers, severe weather or crop disease, or factors that increase demand for RPO or palm stearin, such as increasing biodiesel production or changes in governmental policies or subsidies, will tend to increase prices. The price at which we sell our biodiesel in India, however, is generally indexed to the price of petroleum diesel, which is set by the Indian government. This lack of correlation between production costs and product prices means that we are generally unable to pass increased feedstock costs on to our customers. Any decrease in the spread between biodiesel prices and feedstock prices, whether as a result of an increase in feedstock prices or a reduction in biodiesel prices, would adversely affect our financial performance and cash flow. Our business is dependent upon the availability and price of refined palm oil (RPO) and palm stearin. Significant disruptions in the supply of RPO or palm stearin will materially affect our operating results. 16 The principal raw materials we use to produce biodiesel and biodiesel by-products are RPO and palm stearin. From 2006 to the fall of 2008, prices for all varieties of feedstock increased to record levels. The price of petroleum diesel and biodiesel increased at approximately a similar pace. In the fall of 2008, the global economic downturn created significant declines in prices for petroleum diesel and biodiesel. In 2009, the prices have increased slowly. Changes in the price of RPO and palm stearin will have an impact on our business. In general, higher RPO and palm stearin prices produce lower profit margins and, therefore, represent unfavorable market conditions. This is especially true when market conditions do not allow us to pass along increased feedstock costs to our customers. At certain levels, RPO or palm stearin prices may make biodiesel uneconomical to produce. The price of RPO and palm stearin is influenced by general economic, market and regulatory factors. These factors include weather conditions, farmer planting decisions, government policies and subsidies with respect to agriculture and international trade and global demand and supply. The significance and relative impact of these factors on the price of RPO and palm stearin is difficult to predict. Factors such as severe weather or crop disease could have an adverse impact on our business because we may be unable to pass on higher feedstock costs to our customers. Any event that tends to negatively impact the supply of our chosen feedstock will tend to increase prices and potentially harm our business. The increasing biodiesel capacity could boost demand for RPO and palm stearin and result in increased prices for RPO and palm stearin. Consumer acceptance of biodiesel may affect the demand for biodiesel, which could affect our ability to market our product. The market in India for biodiesel has only recently begun to develop and is rapidly evolving. Therefore the widespread acceptance of our biodiesel is not assured. We are currently operating at approximately 11% of our daily capacity. Our success depends upon the market acceptance of our biodiesel as an addition or an alternative to, petroleum diesel or other petroleum products. Because this market is new, it is difficult to predict its potential size or future growth rate. In addition, the long-term customer base has not been adequately defined. Our success in generating revenue in this emerging market will depend, among other things, on our ability to educate potential customers, as well as potential end-users, about the use of biodiesel as an additive or alternative to petroleum diesel. Unanticipated problems or delays in operating our refinery or with product quality or product performance could result in a decrease in customers and revenue, unexpected expenses and loss of market share. Our current operating cash flow depends on our ability to timely and economically operate our Kakinada biodiesel refinery. Refinery operations require significant amounts of capital to procure feedstock before receiving payment for finished biodiesel. If our biodiesel refining operations are disrupted for unexpected reasons, our business may experience a substantial setback. Prolonged problems may threaten the commercial viability of our refinery. The production of biodiesel is complex, and our product must meet stringent quality requirements. Concerns about fuel quality may impact our ability to successfully market our biodiesel to a larger market. If our biodiesel does not meet the industry quality standard, our credibility and the market acceptance and sales of our biodiesel could be negatively affected. In addition, actual or perceived problems with quality control in the industry generally may lead to a lack of consumer confidence in biodiesel and harm our ability to successfully market biodiesel. Our business will suffer if we cannot maintain necessary permits or licenses. Our operations require licenses, permits and in some cases renewals of these licenses and permits from various governmental authorities. Our ability to sustain, or renew such licenses and permits on acceptable, commercially viable terms are subject to change, as, among other things, the regulations and policies of applicable governmental authorities may change. Our inability to extend a license or a loss of any of these licenses or permits may have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. We primarily sell our biodiesel through brokers, and if our relationships with one or more of those brokers were to end, our operating results may be harmed. We market and distribute a substantial portion of our biodiesel through independent brokers. We do not have written agreements with these brokers and our brokers are under no obligation to continue to distribute our biodiesel. Our operating results and financial condition could be significantly disrupted by the loss of one or more of our current brokers, pricing discounts that we may offer to reward significant customers or to compete for sales, order cancellations, or the failure of our brokers to successfully sell our biodiesel. Our business may be subject to seasonal fluctuations, which could cause our revenues and operating results to fluctuate. Our operating results are influenced by seasonal fluctuations in the price of our primary input, feedstocks, and the price of our primary product, biodiesel. Historically, in the global market for biodiesel, sales tend to decrease during the winter season due to concerns that biodiesel will not perform adequately in colder weather. We do not have enough operating history in selling into the domestic Indian market to be able to understand the seasonality of the biodiesel market in India. Less demand in the winter may result in excess supplies and lower biodiesel prices. As a result of seasonal fluctuations and the growth in our business, we believe comparisons of operating measures between consecutive quarters may be not as meaningful as comparisons between longer reporting periods. 17 Our operations are subject to hazards that may cause personal injury or property damage, thereby subjecting us to liabilities and possible losses that may not be covered by insurance and which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our workers are subject to the hazards associated with producing biodiesel. Operating hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, damage to, or destruction of, property, plant and equipment and environmental damage. We also maintain insurance coverage in amounts and against the risks that we believe are consistent with industry practice. However, we could sustain losses for uninsurable or uninsured risks, or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. Events that result in significant personal injury or damage to our property or to property owned by third parties or other losses that are not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. Insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and quantify due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties, the number of incidents not reported and the effectiveness of our safety program. If we were to experience insurance claims or costs above our coverage limits or that are not covered by our insurance, we might be required to use working capital to satisfy these claims rather than to maintain or expand our operations. To the extent that we experience a material increase in the frequency or severity of accidents or workers’ compensation claims, or unfavorable developments on existing claims, our operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect our results of operations. One hundred percent of our sales and expenses, including labor costs for our Indian biodiesel plant, are denominated in the Indian rupee. Declines in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the Indian rupee could impact our revenue, cost of goods sold and operating margins for our Indian operations and result in foreign currency transaction gains and losses. The exchange rate between Rupee and U.S. Dollar has been volatile in recent times. Foreign currency translation gains or losses are recorded in other comprehensive income, a component of equity. In 2009 we had a foreign currency translation gain of $126,491 compared to a foreign currency translation loss of $3,227,958 in 2008. Historically, we have not actively engaged in substantial exchange rate hedging activities and do not intend to do so in the future. Further, dividend payments by our subsidiaries to our Company will be subject to foreign currency fluctuations. In the future, we may implement hedging strategies to mitigate these foreign exchange risks. However, these hedging strategies may not completely eliminate our exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations and may involve costs and risks of their own, such as ongoing management time and expertise, external costs to implement the strategies and potential accounting implications. Financial instability in Indian financial markets could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The Indian financial market and the Indian economy are influenced by economic and market conditions in other countries, particularly in Asian emerging market countries and the United States. Financial turmoil in Asia, Russia and elsewhere in the world in recent years has affected the Indian economy. Although economic conditions are different in each country, investors’ reactions to developments in one country can have adverse effects on the securities of companies in other countries, including India. A loss in investor confidence in the financial systems of other emerging markets may cause increased volatility in Indian financial markets and, indirectly, in the Indian economy in general. Any worldwide financial instability could also have a negative impact on the Indian economy. Financial disruptions may occur again and could harm our results of operations and financial condition. Terrorist attacks or war or conflicts could adversely affect the financial markets and adversely affect our business. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence, war or conflicts, particularly those involving India, may adversely affect Indian and worldwide financial markets. Such acts may negatively impact business sentiment, which could adversely affect our business and profitability. India has from time to time experienced, and continues to experience, social and civil unrest, terrorist attacks and hostilities with neighboring countries. Also, some of India’s neighboring countries have experienced, or are currently experiencing internal unrest. Such social or civil unrest or hostilities could disrupt communications and adversely affect the economy of such countries. Such events could also create a perception that investments in companies such as ours involve a higher degree of risk than investments in companies in other countries. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the market for securities of such companies, including our Shares. The consequences of any armed conflicts are unpredictable, and we may not be able to foresee events that could have an adverse effect on our business. Natural calamities could have a negative impact on the Indian and other economies and harm our business. India has experienced natural calamities such as earthquakes, floods, droughts and a tsunami in recent years. The extent and severity of these natural disasters determines their impact on the economies in the Indian states that experience these calamities. Our plant is located very near the ocean and prolonged spells of abnormal rainfall and other natural calamities could subject our facility to flooding or other damage which would have a negative effect on our business. In addition, natural disasters could have an adverse impact on the economies in the geographic regions in which we operate, which could adversely affect our business. 18 The biodiesel production and marketing industry is extremely competitive. Many of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do and one or more of these competitors could use their greater resources to gain market share at our expense. The primary type of fuel used in India is petroleum diesel. We compete with existing oil companies as well as other biodiesel production companies. We currently compete for the sale of our biodiesel primarily on a regional basis within the Indian State of Andhra Pradesh where our plant is located and in the neighboring states of Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra. Our primary competitors in these areas are the three state-controlled oil companies, including Indian Oil Corporation, Bharat Petroleum and Hindustan Petroleum, and two private oil companies, Reliance Petroleum and Essar Oil. Indian Oil Corporation together with its subsidiaries holds 47% of the total petroleum products market in India, 40% of the total Indian refining capacity and 67% of the downstream sector pipeline capacity in India. In addition, the Indian Oil Corporation group of companies owns and operates 10 of India’s 19 refineries with a combined refining capacity of 60.2 million metric tons per year. Indian Oil also operates the largest and the widest network of fuel stations in the country, numbering approximately 17,606. These competitors have substantially greater production, financial, personnel and marketing resources than we do. As a result, our competitors are able to compete more aggressively than we can and sustain that competition over a longer period of time. Our lack of resources relative to these competitors may cause us to fail to anticipate or respond adequately to new developments and other competitive pressures. This failure could reduce our competitiveness and cause a decline in our market share, sales and profitability. We also face competition from other producers of biodiesel with respect to the procurement of feedstock and selling biodiesel and related products. Such competition could intensify, thus driving up the cost of feedstock and driving down the price for our products. Competition will likely increase as the commodities market prices of hydrocarbon-based energy, including petroleum and biodiesel, rise as they have in recent years. Additionally, new companies are constantly entering the market, thus increasing the competition. These companies may have greater success in the recruitment and retention of qualified employees, as well as in conducting their own refining and fuel marketing operations, and may have greater access to feedstocks, market presence, economies of scale, financial resources and engineering, technical and marketing capabilities, which may give them a competitive advantage. In addition, actual or potential competitors may be strengthened through the acquisition of additional assets and interests. If we are unable to compete effectively or adequately respond to competitive pressures, this may materially adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition. We depend on Secunderabad Oils, Limited to provide us with working capital for our plant in Kakinada. Our ability to identify and enter into commercial arrangements with feedstock suppliers depends on maintaining our close working relationship with Secunderabad Oils, Limited who is currently providing us with working capital for our Kakinada facility. If we are unable to maintain this strategic relationship, our business may be negatively affected. In addition, the ability of Secunderabad to continue to provide us with working capital depends in part on the financial strength of Secunderabad and its banking relationships. If Secunderabad is unable or unwilling to continue to provide us with working capital, our business may be negatively affected. Risks Relating to Our Overall Business We envision a period of rapid growth that may impose a significant burden on our administrative and operational resources which, if not effectively managed, could impair our growth. Our strategy envisions a period of rapid growth that may impose a significant burden on our administrative and operational resources. The growth of our business, and in particular, the construction of our planned ethanol and biodiesel production facilities, will require significant investments of capital and management’s close attention. In addition to our plans to construct ethanol and biodiesel production facilities, we may seek to enter into significant marketing agreements, and other similar agreements with companies that currently, or expect to, produce ethanol or biodiesel. Our ability to effectively manage our growth will require us to substantially expand the capabilities of our administrative and operational resources and to attract, train, manage and retain qualified management, technicians and other personnel; we may be unable to do so. In addition, our failure to successfully manage our growth could result in our sales not increasing commensurately with capital investments. If we are unable to successfully manage our growth, we may be unable to achieve our goals. Our 10% Senior Notes mature on June 30, 2010, and we may be unable to repay or refinance this indebtedness upon maturity. On June 30, 2010, the $5 million aggregate principal amount and accrued and unpaid interest and fees outstanding under our 10% Senior Notes will become due and payable. We may not be able to extend the maturity of these notes and we may not have sufficient cash available at the time of maturity to repay this indebtedness. We cannot be certain that we will be able to extend the maturity of these notes and also we cannot be certain that we will have sufficient assets or cash flow available to support refinancing these notes at current market rates or on terms that are satisfactory to us. If we are unable to extend the maturity of the notes or refinance on terms satisfactory to us, we may be forced to refinance on terms that are materially less favorable, seek funds through other means such as a sale of some of our assets, or otherwise significantly alter our operating plan, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. 19 We plan to fund a substantial majority of the construction costs of our planned next generation ethanol and biodiesel production facilities through the issuance of a significant amount of debt, resulting in substantial debt service requirements that could harm our financial condition. We plan to fund a substantial portion of the construction costs of our planned next generation ethanol and biodiesel production facilities through the issuance of a significant amount of debt. As a result, our capital structure is expected to contain a significant amount of debt. Debt levels and debt service requirements could have important consequences to us, which could reduce the value of your investment, including: · limiting our ability to borrow additional amounts for operating capital or other purposes and causing us to be able to borrow additional funds only on unfavorable terms; · reducing funds available for operations and distributions because a substantial portion of our cash flow will be used to pay interest and principal on debt; · making us vulnerable to increases in prevailing interest rates; · placing us at a competitive disadvantage because we may be substantially more leveraged than some of our competitors; · subjecting all or substantially all of our assets to liens, which means that there may be no assets left for our shareholders in the event of a liquidation; and · limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions, which could increase our vulnerability to a downturn in our business as a result of general economic conditions. If we are unable to pay our debt service obligations, we could be forced to reduce or eliminate dividends to our shareholders, if they were to commence, and/or reduce or eliminate needed capital expenditures. It is possible that we could be forced to sell assets, seek to obtain additional equity capital or refinance or restructure all or a portion of our debt on substantially less favorable terms. If we were unable to refinance all or a portion of our debt or raise funds through asset sales, sales of equity or otherwise, we may be forced to liquidate. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property, which could negatively affect our ability to compete. We rely on a combination of trademark, trade name, confidentiality agreements, and other contractual restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. We also enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, and corporate partners, and control access to and distribution of our confidential information. These measures may not preclude the disclosure of our confidential or proprietary information. Despite efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary information. Monitoring unauthorized use of our confidential information is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we take to prevent unauthorized use of our confidential information, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect proprietary rights as fully as in the U.S., will be effective. On February 23, 2006, our wholly owned subsidiary American Ethanol, Inc. registered as a corporation in the State of Nevada under the trade name American Ethanol, Inc. On March 1, 2006, we filed an “Intent to Use” Trademark application for the name American Ethanol with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO). Another company in Santa Maria, California registered as a California corporation under the name American Ethanol, Inc. in November 2005 and incorporated in the State of Delaware under the name of American Ethanol, Inc. This company has also filed “Use” trademark applications with the USPTO for the names American Ethanol and America’s Ethanol. These trademark applications predate our trademark application and therefore if upheld may prohibit us from using the trademark American Ethanol. In addition, their use of the trade name American Ethanol, Inc. in California predates our use of the trade name in Nevada. As a result, we may be obligated to change our subsidiary’s trade name as well, and may be subject to damages for trademark and trade name infringement. We will be required to hire and retain skilled technical and managerial personnel. Personnel qualified to operate and manage ethanol and biodiesel plants are in demand. Our success depends in large part on our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain qualified management and highly-skilled employees, particularly managerial, technical, sales and marketing personnel, technicians, and other critical personnel. Any failure to attract and retain the required highly trained managerial and technical personnel that are integral to production and development and technical support teams may have a negative impact on the operation of our plants, which would have a negative impact on revenues. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain skilled persons and the loss of skilled technical personnel would adversely affect us. We are dependent upon our officers for management and direction and the loss of any of these persons could adversely affect our operations and results. We are dependent upon our officers for implementation of our proposed expansion strategy and execution of our business plan. The loss of any of our officers could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations and financial position. We do not maintain “key person” life insurance for any of our officers. The loss of any of our officers could delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives. 20 We may be sued or become a party to litigation, which could require significant management time and attention and result in significant legal expenses and may result in an unfavorable outcome, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may be subject to a number of lawsuits from time to time arising in the ordinary course of our business. The expense of defending ourselves against such litigation may be significant. The amount of time to resolve these lawsuits is unpredictable and defending ourselves may divert management’s attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, an unfavorable outcome in such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. Risks related to regulation and governmental action A change in government policies favorable to ethanol or biodiesel may cause demand for ethanol or biodiesel to decline. Growth and demand for ethanol and biodiesel is largely driven by federal and state government policies, such as state laws banning Methyl Tertiary Butyl Ether (MTBE) and the national renewable fuels standard as well as government incentives to blend biofuels with petroleum based products in many countries around the world, including the U.S. and India. The continuation of these policies is uncertain, which means that demand for ethanol or biodiesel may decline if these policies change or are discontinued. Federal tax incentives for ethanol and biodiesel production may be eliminated in the future, which could hinder our ability to operate at a profit and adversely affect our business. The ethanol and biodiesel industry and our business are assisted by various federal tax incentives, including those included in the Energy Policy Act of 2005 and the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007. The Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 significantly increased the Renewable Fuels Standard’s (RFS) mandated usage of renewable fuels originally established under the Energy Policy Act of 2005 to 36 billion gallons by 2022. In addition, the 2007 Act increases the quantity of ethanol produced from corn to 15 billion gallons by 2022 and increases the amount of renewable fuels, including cellulosic ethanol and biodiesel, produced from non-food biomass to 21 billion gallons. The RFS began at 4 billion gallons in 2006, increasing to 15.2 billion gallons by 2022. The RFS helps support a market for ethanol that might disappear without this incentive. The elimination or reduction of tax incentives to the ethanol industry could increase ethanol prices and thereby reduce the market for ethanol, which could reduce our revenues by making it more costly or difficult for us to produce and sell ethanol. If the federal tax incentives are eliminated or sharply curtailed, we believe that a decreased demand for ethanol will result, which could result in the failure of our business. Another important provision involves an expansion in the definition of who qualifies as a small ethanol producer. Historically, small ethanol producers were allowed a 10-cents-per-gallon production income tax credit on up to 15 million gallons of production annually. The size of the plant eligible for the tax credit was limited to 30 million gallons. Under the Energy Policy Act of 2005 the size limitation on the production capacity for small ethanol producers increases from 30 million to 60 million gallons. This tax credit may foster additional growth in ethanol plants of a size similar to our proposed plants and increase competition in this particular plant size category. Changes in environmental regulations or violations of the regulations could be expensive and reduce our ability to become profitable. We are and will continue to be subject to extensive air, water and other environmental regulations and will need to obtain a number of environmental permits to construct and operate our plants. In addition, it is likely that senior debt financing will be contingent on our ability to obtain the various environmental permits that we will require. If for any reason, any of these permits are not granted, construction costs for the plants may increase, or the plants may not be constructed at all. Additionally, any changes in environmental laws and regulations, both at the federal and state level, could require us to invest or spend considerable resources to comply with future environmental regulations. The expense of compliance could be significant enough to reduce profits. Our lack of business diversification could result in the devaluation of our securities if we do not generate revenue from our primary products or such revenues decrease. Our current business consists solely of the production and sales of biodiesel in India. We expect that our business will consist of the production and sale of ethanol, next generation cellulosic ethanol, biodiesel, distillers’ grains and glycerin. Our lack of business diversification could cause you to lose all or some of your investment if we are unable to generate revenues by the production and sales of next generation cellulosic ethanol, since we do not have any other lines of business or alternative revenue sources. Risks related to our stock There can be no assurance that a liquid public market for our common stock will continue to exist. Although our shares of common stock are eligible for quotation on the OTC Bulletin Board electronic over-the-counter trading system, a very limited number of shares trade on a regular basis. There can be no assurance that a regular and established market will be developed and maintained for our common stock. There can also be no assurance as to the strength or liquidity of any market for our common stock or the prices at which holders may be able to sell their shares. 21 It is likely that there will be significant volatility in the trading price. Market prices for our common stock will be influenced by many factors and will be subject to significant fluctuations in response to variations in our operating results and other factors. Because our business is the operation of our biodiesel plant and the future development and operation of next-generation cellulosic ethanol plants, factors that could affect our future stock price, and create volatility in our stock price, include the price and demand for ethanol and biodiesel, the price and availability of oil and gasoline, the political situation in the Middle East, U.S. energy policies, federal and state regulatory changes that affect the price of ethanol or biodiesel, and the existence or discontinuation of legislative incentives for renewable fuels. Our stock price will also be affected by the trading price of the stock of our competitors, investor perceptions of us, interest rates, general economic conditions and those specific to the ethanol or biodiesel industry, developments with regard to our operations and activities, our future financial condition, and changes in our management. Risks relating to low priced stocks. Although our common stock currently is quoted and traded on the OTC Bulletin Board, the price at which the stock will trade in the future cannot currently be estimated. Since December 15, 2008, our common stock has traded below $5.00 per share. As a result, trading in our common stock may be subject to the requirements of certain rules promulgated under the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), which require additional disclosure by broker-dealers in connection with any trades involving a stock defined as a penny stock (generally, any non-Nasdaq equity security that has a market price share of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions) and a two business day “cooling off period” before broker and dealers can effect transactions in penny stocks. For these types of transactions, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction before the sale. The broker-dealer also must disclose the commissions payable to the broker-dealer, current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock and, if the broker-dealer is the sole market-maker, the broker-dealer must disclose this fact and the broker-dealer’s presumed control over the market. These, and the other burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by the penny stock requirements, could discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our common stock which could severely limit the market liquidity of our common stock and the ability of holders of our common stock to sell it. We do not intend to pay dividends. We have not paid any cash dividends on any of our securities since inception and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on any of our securities in the foreseeable future. Members of our management hold a substantial amount of our common stock, which will enable these shareholders to exercise influence over many matters requiring shareholder approval and may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control, which could deprive you of an opportunity to receive a premium for your securities as part of a sale of the company and may affect the market price of our stock. Eric A. McAfee, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, and Laird Q. Cagan, a former board member, in the aggregate, beneficially own approximately 31.48% of our capital stock on a fully diluted, as converted basis. In addition, the other members of our Board of Directors and management, in the aggregate, beneficially own approximately 3.18% of our common stock. As a result, these shareholders, acting together, will be able to influence many matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions. See “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.” The interests of these shareholders may differ from yours and this concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control, and could deprive you of an opportunity to receive a premium for your securities as part of a sale of the company and may affect the market price of our securities. Rule 144 will not be available to holders of restricted shares during any period in which the Company has failed to comply with its reporting obligations under the Exchange Act. All of the shares of AE Biofuels issued to former shareholders of American Ethanol, Inc. in connection with the merger of AE Biofuels, Inc. and American Ethanol, Inc. were "restricted securities" within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. As restricted shares, these shares may be resold only pursuant to an effective registration statement or pursuant to Rule 144 or other applicable exemption from registration under the Securities Act. However, Rule 144 is not available with respect to restricted shares acquired from an issuer that is or was at any time in its past a shell company if the former shell company has failed to file all reports that it is required to file under the Exchange Act during the 12 months preceding the sale. If at any time the Company fails to comply with its reporting obligations under the Exchange Act, Rule 144 will not be available to holders of restricted shares which may limit your ability to sell your restricted shares. 22 