Risk Factors We have not yet commenced production activities and have limited operating history, which makes it difficult to evaluate our financial position and our business plan. We are a company in the development stage and have limited business operations. Accordingly, there is limited prior operating history by which to evaluate the likelihood of our success or our ability to exist as a going concern. We may never begin or complete construction of an ethanol production facility, our biodiesel plant in India, although completed, has not begun production or, if we do complete the construction of an ethanol facilities or start biodiesel production in our India facility, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to become profitable. We will need to obtain a significant amount of additional debt and equity capital to complete the development and completion of our planned ethanol and biodiesel plants, which we may not be able to obtain on acceptable terms or at all. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $510,000 in cash on hand in our domestic entities and $2,845,000 held in offshore subsidiaries including marketable securities. Additional funding will be needed to meet ongoing working capital needs as well as to meet ongoing obligations with respect to the construction of our planned ethanol and biodiesel plants. Based on our internal projections, we currently estimate that the cost to develop and construct our proposed U.S. ethanol plants is approximately $240 million per plant and the cost to develop and construct our proposed biodiesel plants in India is approximately $30 million per plant. In addition, once these plants have been constructed, we will have to fund the start-up operations of these plants until the plants generate sufficient cash flow from their operations, if ever. We have acquired four sites and have options to acquire four additional sites in the U.S. on which we propose to construct ethanol and/or biodiesel plants. If all of these sites are purchased and developed, the development and construction costs for these additional facilities are anticipated to exceed $1.5 billion. Additionally, we may encounter unforeseen costs that could also require us to seek additional capital. Further, we have been operating at a loss and expect to increase our operating expenses significantly as we expand our operations and begin anticipated plant construction. Although we have raised approximately $31.8 million to date through the sales of our preferred stock, any future equity or other fundraising may not be successful. Our auditors have included an explanatory paragraph in their audit opinion with respect to our consolidated financial statements for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, which includes a material uncertainty related to our ability to continue as a going concern. The full and timely development and implementation of our business plan and growth strategy will require significant additional resources, and we may not be able to obtain the funding necessary to implement our growth strategy on acceptable terms or at all. An inability to obtain such funding could slow down or prevent us from executing on our plan to construct ethanol and biodiesel plants. Furthermore, our construction strategy may not produce material revenues even if successfully funded. We intend to explore a number of options to secure alternative sources of capital, including the issuance of senior secured debt, subordinated debt, and additional equity, including preferred equity securities or other equity securities. We have not yet identified the sources for the additional financing we require and we do not have firm commitments from any third parties to provide this financing. We might not succeed, therefore, in raising additional equity capital or in negotiating and obtaining additional and acceptable financing when we need it or at all. Our ability to obtain additional capital will also depend on market conditions, national and global economies and other factors beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will be able to implement or capitalize on various financing alternatives or otherwise obtain required working capital, the need for which is substantial given our operating loss history and our business and development plan. The terms of any future debt or equity funding that we may obtain in the future may be unfavorable to us and to our shareholders. Our failure to manage our growth effectively could prevent us from achieving our goals. 8 Our auditor's opinion expresses substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a "going concern.” Our independent auditor’s reports on our December 31, 2007 and 2006 financial statements included herein states that recurring losses from operations raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. If we are unable to develop our business and to generate sufficient revenues, we may have to discontinue operations or cease to exist, which would be detrimental to the value of your investment. We can make no assurances that our business operations will develop and provide us with significant cash to continue operations. Our auditors identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007 and 2006. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in our failure to accurately report our financial results. In connection with our audit of our financial statements, our external auditors, BDO Seidman, LLP advised us that we had control deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting as of and for the year ended December 31, 2007 and 2006. The control deficiencies related to the fact that our accounting resources did not include enough people with the detailed knowledge, experience and training in the selection and application of certain accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) to meet our financial reporting needs. These control deficiencies contributed to material weaknesses in internal control with respect to segregation of duties, accounting for revenue recognition, stockholders equity and share-based compensation and acquisitions as well as financial statement presentation and disclosures. A "material weakness" is a control deficiency or combination of control deficiencies that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement in the financial statements or related disclosures will not be prevented or detected. During fiscal 2008, Management began the remediation process by hiring consultants with the necessary accounting knowledge, experience and training to meet the needs of our organization. In preparation for the Reverse Merger, we engaged a consultant experienced in accounting and financial reporting who assisted us in preparing our financial statements. We have hired a consultant who is acting as our corporate controller with specific responsibilities for external financial reporting, internal control, revenue recognition and purchase accounting. We expect to incur significant additional costs in the future. While we expect to complete the process of bringing our internal control documentation into compliance with SOX Section 404 as quickly as possible, we cannot at this time estimate how long it will take to complete the process or the ultimate cost. We expect such costs to be significant. We envision a period of rapid growth that may impose a significant burden on our administrative and operational resources which, if not effectively managed, could impair our growth. Our strategy envisions a period of rapid growth that may impose a significant burden on our administrative and operational resources. The growth of our business, and in particular, the construction of our planned ethanol and biodiesel production facilities, will require significant investments of capital and management's close attention. In addition to our plans to construct ethanol and biodiesel production facilities, we may seek to enter into significant marketing agreements, and other similar agreements with companies that currently, or expect to, produce ethanol or biodiesel. Our ability to effectively manage our growth will require us to substantially expand the capabilities of our administrative and operational resources and to attract, train, manage and retain qualified management, technicians and other personnel; we may be unable to do so. In addition, our failure to successfully manage our growth could result in our sales not increasing commensurately with capital investments. If we are unable to successfully manage our growth, we may be unable to achieve our goals. We plan to fund a substantial majority of the construction costs of our planned ethanol and biodiesel production facilities through the issuance of a significant amount of debt, resulting in substantial debt service requirements that could harm our financial condition. We plan to fund a substantial portion of the construction costs of our planned ethanol and biodiesel production facilities through the issuance of a significant amount of debt. As a result, our capital structure is expected to contain a significant amount of debt. Debt levels and debt service requirements could have important consequences to us, which could reduce the value of your investment, including: 9 · limiting our ability to borrow additional amounts for operating capital or other purposes and causing us to be able to borrow additional funds only on unfavorable terms; · reducing funds available for operations and distributions because a substantial portion of our cash flow will be used to pay interest and principal on debt; · making us vulnerable to increases in prevailing interest rates; · placing us at a competitive disadvantage because we may be substantially more leveraged than some of our competitors; · subjecting all or substantially all of our assets to liens, which means that there may be no assets left for our shareholders in the event of a liquidation; and · limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions, which could increase our vulnerability to a downturn in our business as a result of general economic conditions. If we are unable to pay our debt service obligations, we could be forced to reduce or eliminate dividends to our shareholders, if they were to commence, and/or reduce or eliminate needed capital expenditures. It is possible that we could be forced to sell assets, seek to obtain additional equity capital or refinance or restructure all or a portion of our debt on substantially less favorable terms. In the event that we were unable to refinance all or a portion of our debt or raise funds through asset sales, sales of equity or otherwise, we may be forced to liquidate. If we fail to finalize critical agreements, such as design-build agreements, ethanol, biodiesel and by-product marketing agreements, and utility supply agreements, or the terms of such critical agreements are unfavorable compared to what we currently anticipate, our projects may fail or be harmed in ways that significantly reduce our profitability. To date, we have not signed definitive binding construction agreements with any Engineering Procurement Contracts (EPC) firm in the United States to design and build our planned ethanol or biodiesel plants. Nor have we entered into any by-product marketing agreements, feedstock agreements or utility supply agreements with respect to either our planned ethanol or biodiesel plants. If we are unable to enter into these critical agreements or the definitive versions of those agreements, documents, plans or proposals contain terms or conditions that vary significantly from the terms and conditions currently expected by us, we may not be able to operate profitably. We will be dependent on our engineering procurement and construction (EPC) firm and our process engineering firms, and their subsidiaries and affiliates for expertise in the design, construction and operation of ethanol and biodiesel plants and any loss of these relationships could cause delay and added expense, placing us at a competitive disadvantage. The number of engineering and construction firms in the U.S. and India with the necessary expertise to design and build ethanol and biodiesel plants and their available capacity is limited. We will be dependent on our relationships with our EPC firms, and their subsidiaries, affiliates and employees. Any loss of, or damage to, these relationships, particularly during the construction and start-up period for the plant(s), may significantly delay or even prevent us from commencing operations and result in the failure of our business. The time and expense of locating new consultants and contractors would result in unforeseen expenses and delays. Unforeseen expenses and delays may reduce our ability to generate revenue and profitability and significantly damage our competitive position in the ethanol and biodiesel industry. 10 We may be unable to protect our intellectual property, which could negatively affect our ability to compete. We rely on a combination of trademark, trade name, confidentiality agreements, and other contractual restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. We also enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, and corporate partners, and control access to and distribution of our confidential information. These measures may not preclude the disclosure of our confidential or proprietary information. Despite efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary information. Monitoring unauthorized use of our confidential information is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we take to prevent unauthorized use of our confidential information, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect proprietary rights as fully as in the U.S., will be effective. On February 23, 2006, our wholly owned subsidiary American Ethanol, Inc. registered as a corporation in the State of Nevada under the trade name American Ethanol, Inc. On March 1, 2006, we filed an “Intent to Use” Trademark application for the name American Ethanol with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO). Another company in Santa Maria, California registered as a California corporation under the name American Ethanol, Inc. in November 2005 and incorporated in the State of Delaware under the name of American Ethanol, Inc. This company has also filed “Use” trademark applications with the USPTO for the names American Ethanol and America’s Ethanol. These trademark applications predate our trademark application and therefore if upheld may prohibit us from using the trademark American Ethanol. In addition, their use of the trade name American Ethanol, Inc. in California predates our use of the trade name in Nevada. As a result, we may be obligated to change our subsidiary’s trade name as well, and may be subject to damages for trademark and trade name infringement. We will be required to hire and retain skilled technical and managerial personnel. Personnel qualified to operate and manage ethanol and biodiesel plants are in demand. Our success depends in large part on our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain qualified management and highly-skilled employees, particularly managerial, technical, sales, and marketing personnel, technicians, and other critical personnel. Any failure to attract and retain the required highly trained managerial and technical personnel that are integral to production and development and technical support teams may have a negative impact on the operation of our plants, which would have a negative impact on revenues. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain skilled persons and the loss of skilled technical personnel would adversely affect us. We are dependent upon our officers for management and direction and the loss of any of these persons could adversely affect our operations and results. We are dependent upon our officers for implementation of our proposed expansion strategy and execution of our business plan. The loss of any of our officers could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations and financial position. We do not maintain “key person” life insurance for any of our officers. The loss of any of our officers could delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives. Increases in site or plant construction costs may require us to raise additional capital resulting in a dilution of your investment. We anticipate that EPC firms will construct our proposed plants for a fixed contract price, based on the plans and specifications in the anticipated design-build agreement. The estimated cost of construction of plants is based on preliminary discussions, and there is no assurance that the final cost of one or more of our plants will not be higher. There is no assurance that there will not be design changes or cost overruns associated with the construction of plants. Shortages of steel, concrete or other building materials or labor could affect the final cost and final completion date of the project. In addition, specific site conditions at any plant site may increase construction costs. For example, a proposed site’s proximity or access to natural gas, electricity and water will affect construction costs and the greater the distance to natural gas pipelines and electric power lines, or if we are required to drill deeper than anticipated wells to access the required quantity and quality of water, the construction costs of a site could substantially increase. Any significant increase in the estimated construction cost of the plant could require us to raise additional capital, which would dilute your ownership in the company. Construction delays could result in devaluation of our shares if the production and sale of ethanol, biodiesel and their byproducts are similarly delayed. Construction projects often involve delays for a number of reasons including delays in obtaining permits, delays due to weather conditions, or other events. In addition, an EPC firm’s or any other company’s involvement in the construction of a number of other plants while constructing our plant could cause delays in the construction schedule. Also, any changes in interest rates or the credit environment or any changes in political administrations at the federal, state or local level that result in policy changes towards ethanol, biodiesel or any of our projects could also cause construction and operation delays. If it takes longer to construct any one or more of our plants than is anticipated, our ability to generate revenues could be impaired and make it difficult for us to meet our debt service obligations. 11 Defects in plant construction could result in the delay of ethanol or biodiesel production, which could delay our ability to generate revenues and result in a devaluation of our securities. There is no assurance that defects in materials and/or workmanship in a plant will not occur. Under the expected terms of design-build agreements, we expect that the EPC firm would warrant that the material and equipment furnished to build the plant will be new, of good quality, and free from material defects in material or workmanship at the time of delivery. Though we expect the design-build agreement to require the EPC firm to correct all defects in material or workmanship for a period of time after substantial completion of the plant, material defects in material or workmanship may still occur. Such defects could delay the commencement of operations of the plant, or, if such defects are discovered after operations have commenced, could cause us to halt or discontinue the plant’s operation. Halting or discontinuing plant operations could delay our ability to generate revenues. Any operational disruption could result in a reduction in sales volumes and could cause us to incur substantial losses. If we are able to complete the construction of our plants, our operations may be subject to significant interruption if any of our facilities experiences a major accident or is damaged by severe weather or other natural disasters. In addition, our operations may be subject to labor disruptions and unscheduled downtime, or other operational hazards inherent in our industry, such as equipment failures, fires, explosions, abnormal pressures, blowouts, pipeline ruptures, transportation accidents and natural disasters. Some of these operational hazards may cause personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment or environmental damage, and may result in suspension of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. Our insurance may not cover or be adequate to fully cover the potential operational hazards described above. We may be sued or become a party to litigation, which could require significant management time and attention and result in significant legal expenses and may result in an unfavorable outcome, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may be subject to a number of lawsuits from time to time arising in the ordinary course of our business. The expense of defending ourselves against such litigation may be significant. The amount of time to resolve these lawsuits is unpredictable and defending ourselves may divert management’s attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, an unfavorable outcome in such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. Risks related to ethanol and biodiesel industry Our financial performance will be dependent on prices for feedstock and commodities, which are subject to and determined by market forces outside our control. Our results of operations and financial condition will be significantly affected by the cost and supply of feedstocks such as corn and palm oil, and other commodities such as natural gas and electricity. The price of feedstock is influenced by weather conditions and other factors affecting crop yields, farmer planting decisions and general economic, market and regulatory factors. These factors include government policies and subsidies with respect to agriculture and international trade, and global and local demand and supply. The significance and relative effect of these factors on the price of feedstock is difficult to predict. Any event that tends to negatively affect the supply of feedstock, such as adverse weather or crop disease, could increase feedstock prices and potentially harm our business. In addition, we may also have difficulty, from time to time, in physically sourcing feedstock on economical terms due to supply shortages. Such a shortage could require us to suspend operations until feedstocks are available at economical terms, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. The price we pay for feedstock at a facility could increase if an additional ethanol or biodiesel production facility is built in the same general vicinity. The availability and price of feedstock will significantly influence our financial performance. We may purchase feedstock in the cash market and hedge price risk through futures contracts and options to reduce short-term exposure to price fluctuations. There is no assurance that our hedging activities will successfully reduce the risk caused by price fluctuation, which may leave it vulnerable to high feedstock prices. Hedging activities themselves can result in costs because price movements in feedstock contracts are highly volatile and are influenced by many factors that are beyond our control. We may incur such costs and they may be significant. Generally, higher feedstock prices will usually produce lower profit margins. This is especially true if market conditions do not allow us to pass through increased feedstock costs to our customers. There is no assurance that we will be able to pass through higher feedstock prices because we presently have no operational plants or customers. If a period of high feedstock prices were to be sustained for some time, such pricing may reduce our ability to generate revenues because of the higher cost of operations. 12 We will rely upon third parties for the supply of natural gas and electricity, which is consumed in the manufacture of biofuels. The prices for and availability of natural gas and electricity are subject to volatile market conditions. These market conditions often are affected by factors beyond our control such as higher prices resulting from colder than average weather conditions and overall economic and political conditions. Significant disruptions in the supply of natural gas or electricity could impair our ability to manufacture ethanol or biodiesel. Furthermore, increases in natural gas or electricity prices or changes in natural gas or electricity costs relative to natural gas costs paid by competitors may adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. We may depend on others for sales of our products, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage and reduce profitability. We expect to hire third-party marketing firms to market some or all of the ethanol and biodiesel we plan to produce. We may also hire third-party firms to market the by products of ethanol and biodiesel production such as distillers’ grains and glycerin. As a result, we expect to be dependent on any brokers that we engage. There is no assurance that we will be able to enter into contracts with any brokers on terms that are favorable to us. If the broker breaches the contract or does not have the ability, for financial or other reasons, to market all of the biofuels we produce, we may not have any readily available means to sell our products. Our lack of a sales force and reliance on third parties to sell and market our products may place us at a competitive disadvantage. Our failure to sell all of our products may result in less income from sales, reducing our revenue stream. The ethanol and biodiesel production and marketing industry is extremely competitive. Many of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do and one or more of these competitors could use their greater resources to gain market share at our expense. The ethanol and biodiesel production and marketing industry is extremely competitive. Many of our significant competitors in the ethanol production and marketing industry, such as Archer-Daniels-Midland Company and Cargill, have substantially greater production, financial, research and development, personnel and marketing resources than we do. As a result, our competitors may be able to compete more aggressively than we could and sustain that competition over a longer period of time. Our lack of resources relative to many of our significant competitors may cause us to fail to anticipate or respond adequately to new developments and other competitive pressures. This failure could reduce our competitiveness and cause a decline in our market share, sales and profitability. Declines in the prices of ethanol, distillers’ grains, biodiesel and glycerin will have a significant negative impact on our financial performance. Our revenues will be greatly affected by the price at which we can sell our ethanol, distillers’ grains, biodiesel and glycerin. These prices can be volatile as a result of a number of factors. These factors include the overall supply and demand, the price of gasoline, level of government support, and the availability and price of competing products. For instance, the price of ethanol tends to increase as the price of gasoline increases, and the price of ethanol tends to decrease as the price of gasoline decreases. Any lowering of gasoline prices will likely also lead to lower prices for ethanol, which may decrease our ethanol sales and reduce revenues. The prices of ethanol and biodiesel have recently been higher than their 10-year average. We expect these prices to be volatile as supply from new and existing ethanol and biodiesel plants increases to meet increased demand. Increased production of ethanol and biodiesel may lead to lower prices. The increased production of ethanol could have other adverse effects. For example, the increased production could lead to increased supplies of by-products from the production of ethanol, such as distillers’ grains. Those increased supplies could outpace demand, which would lead to lower prices for those by-products. Also, the increased production of ethanol and biodiesel could result in increased demand for the relevant feedstock such as corn and palm oil. This could result in higher prices for such feedstock creating lower profits. There can be no assurance as to the price of biodiesel, ethanol, distillers’ grains or glycerin in the future. Any downward changes in the price of biodiesel, ethanol, distillers’ grains and/or glycerin may result in less income, which would decrease our profitability. Competition from the advancement of alternative fuels may lessen the demand for biodiesel and ethanol and negatively impact our profitability. Alternative fuels, gasoline oxygenates and ethanol production methods are continually under development. A number of automotive, industrial and power generation manufacturers are developing alternative clean power systems using fuel cells or clean burning gaseous fuels. The emerging fuel cell industry offers a technological option to address increasing worldwide energy costs, the long-term availability of petroleum reserves and environmental concerns. Fuel cells have emerged as a potential alternative to certain existing power sources because of their higher efficiency, reduced noise and lower emissions. Fuel cell industry participants are currently targeting the transportation, stationary power and portable power markets in order to decrease fuel costs, lessen dependence on crude oil and reduce harmful emissions. If the fuel cell and hydrogen industries continue to expand and gain broad acceptance, and hydrogen becomes readily available to consumers for motor vehicle use, we may not be able to compete effectively. This additional competition could reduce the demand for ethanol and biodiesel, which would negatively impact our profitability. 13 As domestic ethanol and biodiesel production continues to grow, ethanol and biodiesel supply may exceed demand causing prices to decline. The number of ethanol and biodiesel plants being developed and constructed in the U.S. continues to increase at a rapid pace. The recent passage of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 included a renewable fuels mandate that we expect will further increase the number of domestic ethanol and biodiesel production facilities. Archer Daniels Midland (ADM) recently announced a plan to add approximately 500 million gallons per year of additional ethanol production capacity in the U.S. ADM is currently the largest ethanol producer in the U.S. and controls a significant portion of the ethanol market. ADM’s plan to produce an additional 500 million gallons of ethanol per year will weaken our position in the ethanol industry and cause a significant increase in domestic ethanol supply. As these plants begin operations, we expect domestic ethanol and biodiesel production to significantly increase. If the demand for ethanol and biodiesel does not grow at the same pace as increases in supply, we would expect the price for ethanol and/or biodiesel to decline. Declining ethanol and/or biodiesel prices will result in lower revenues and may reduce or eliminate our profitability. Ethanol and biodiesel imported from other countries may be a less expensive alternative to ethanol and biodiesel produced by us, which would cause us to lose market share and adversely affect profitability. Brazil is currently the world’s largest producer and exporter of ethanol. Ethanol imported from Brazil and other countries may be a less expensive alternative to domestically produced ethanol if tariffs presently protecting U.S. ethanol producers are reduced or eliminated. Competition from ethanol imported from Brazil and other countries may affect our ability to sell ethanol profitably. In addition, ethanol produced or processed in certain countries in Central America and the Caribbean region is eligible for tariff reduction or elimination upon importation to the U.S. under a program known as the Caribbean Basin Initiative. Large ethanol producers, such as Cargill, have expressed interest in building dehydration plants in participating Caribbean Basin countries, such as El Salvador, which would convert ethanol into fuel-grade ethanol for shipment to the U.S. Ethanol imported from Caribbean Basin countries may be a less expensive alternative to domestically produced ethanol. Competition from ethanol imported from Caribbean Basin countries may affect our ability to sell our ethanol profitably. Changes and advances in ethanol and biodiesel production technology could require us to incur costs to update our planned ethanol and biodiesel plants or could otherwise hinder our ability to compete in the biofuels industry or operate profitably. Advances and changes in ethanol and/or biodiesel production technology may make the production technologies installed in any of our plants less desirable or obsolete. These advances may also allow competitors to produce biofuels at a lower cost than we can. If we are unable to adopt or incorporate technological advances, our biofuels production methods and processes could be less efficient than our competitors, which could cause our plants to become uncompetitive or completely obsolete. If competitors develop, obtain or license technology that is superior to ours or that makes our technology obsolete, we may be required to incur significant costs to enhance or acquire new technology so that our Biofuels production remains competitive. Alternatively, we may be required to seek third-party licenses, which could also result in significant expenditures. We cannot guarantee or assure that third-party licenses will be available or, once obtained, will continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms. These costs could negatively impact our financial performance by increasing our operating costs and reducing our net income. Plant sites may have unknown environmental problems that could be expensive and time consuming to correct, which may delay or halt plant construction and delay our ability to generate revenue. We may encounter hazardous conditions at or near each of our planned facility sites that may delay or prevent construction of a particular facility. If we encounter a hazardous condition at or near a site, work may be suspended and we may be required to correct the condition prior to continuing construction. The presence of a hazardous condition would likely delay or prevent construction of a particular facility and may require significant expenditure of resources to correct the condition. If we encounter any hazardous condition during construction, estimated sales and profitability may be adversely affected. Risks related to regulation and governmental action A change in government policies favorable to ethanol or biodiesel may cause demand for ethanol or biodiesel to decline. Growth and demand for ethanol and biodiesel may be driven primarily by federal and state government policies, such as state laws banning Methyl Tertiary Butyl Ether (MTBE) and the national renewable fuels standard. The continuation of these policies is uncertain, which means that demand for ethanol or biodiesel may decline if these policies change or are discontinued. Federal tax incentives for ethanol and biodiesel production may be eliminated in the future, which could hinder our ability to operate at a profit and adversely affect our business. 14 The ethanol and biodiesel industry and our business are assisted by various federal tax incentives, including those included in the Energy Policy Act of 2005. The provision of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 likely to have the greatest impact on the ethanol industry is the creation of a 7.5 billion-gallon Renewable Fuels Standard (RFS). The RFS will begin at 4 billion gallons in 2006, increasing to 7.5 billion gallons by 2012. The RFS helps support a market for ethanol that might disappear without this incentive. The elimination or reduction of tax incentives to the ethanol industry could increase ethanol prices and thereby reduce the market for ethanol, which could reduce our revenues by making it more costly or difficult for us to produce and sell ethanol. If the federal tax incentives are eliminated or sharply curtailed, we believe that a decreased demand for ethanol will result, which could result in the failure of our business. Another important provision involves an expansion in the definition of who qualifies as a small ethanol producer. Historically, small ethanol producers were allowed a 10-cents-per-gallon production income tax credit on up to 15 million gallons of production annually. The size of the plant eligible for the tax credit was limited to 30 million gallons. Under the Energy Policy Act of 2005 the size limitation on the production capacity for small ethanol producers increases from 30 million to 60 million gallons. This tax credit may foster additional growth in ethanol plants of a size similar to our proposed plants and increase competition in this particular plant size category. Similarly, there is a $1.00 per gallon tax credit allowed for the production of biodiesel. If U.S. federal energy policy changes, or if the tax credit were eliminated, it could have a negative impact on our biodiesel business. The U.S. Congress is currently debating such a proposal, and is expected to vote on revised energy policies in the fall of 2007. Any reduction or elimination of current tax credits could have a negative impact on us and our business. Changes in environmental regulations or violations of the regulations could be expensive and reduce our ability to become profitable. We are and will continue to be subject to extensive air, water and other environmental regulations and will need to obtain a number of environmental permits to construct and operate our plants. In addition, it is likely that senior debt financing will be contingent on our ability to obtain the various environmental permits that we will require. If for any reason, any of these permits are not granted, construction costs for the plants may increase, or the plants may not be constructed at all. Additionally, any changes in environmental laws and regulations, both at the federal and state level, could require us to invest or spend considerable resources in order to comply with future environmental regulations. The expense of compliance could be significant enough to reduce profits. Our lack of business diversification could result in the devaluation of our securities if we do not generate revenue from our primary products or such revenues decrease. We expect that our business will consist of ethanol, biodiesel, distillers’ grains and glycerin production and sales. We currently have no other lines of business or other sources of revenue if we are unable to complete the construction and operation of our proposed plants. Our lack of business diversification could cause you to lose all or some of your investment if we are unable to generate revenues by the production and sales of ethanol, biodiesel, distillers grains and glycerin, since we do not have any other lines of business or alternative revenue sources. Risks related to our stock There can be no assurance that a liquid public market for our common stock will continue to exist. Although our shares of common stock are eligible for quotation on the OTC Bulletin Board electronic over-the-counter trading system, a very limited number of shares trade on a regular basis and there may not be a significant market in such stock. There can be no assurance that a regular and established market will be developed and maintained for our common stock. There can also be no assurance as to the strength or liquidity of any market for our common stock or the prices at which holders may be able to sell their shares. It is likely that there will be significant volatility in the trading price. Market prices for our common stock will be influenced by many factors and will be subject to significant fluctuations in response to variations in our operating results and other factors. Because our business plan is to own and operate ethanol and biodiesel plants, factors that could affect our future stock price, and create volatility in our stock price, include the price and demand for ethanol and biodiesel, the price and availability of oil and gasoline, the political situation in the Middle East, U.S. energy policies, federal and state regulatory changes that affect the price of ethanol or biodiesel, and the existence or discontinuation of legislative incentives for renewable fuels. Our stock price will also be affected by the trading price of the stock of our competitors, investor perceptions of us, interest rates, general economic conditions and those specific to the ethanol or biodiesel industry, developments with regard to our operations and activities, our future financial condition, and changes in our management. 15 Risks relating to low priced stocks. Although our common stock currently is quoted and traded on the OTC Bulletin Board (although there has been only limited trading since May 2006 when trading on the OTCBB began), the price at which the stock will trade in the future cannot currently be estimated. If our common stock trades below $5.00 per share, trading in the common stock may be subject to the requirements of certain rules promulgated under the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), which require additional disclosure by broker-dealers in connection with any trades involving a stock defined as a penny stock (generally, any non-Nasdaq equity security that has a market price share of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions) and a two business day “cooling off period” before broker and dealers can effect transactions in penny stocks. For these types of transactions, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to the sale. The broker-dealer also must disclose the commissions payable to the broker-dealer, current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock and, if the broker-dealer is the sole market-maker, the broker-dealer must disclose this fact and the broker-dealer’s presumed control over the market. These, and the other burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by the penny stock requirements, could discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our common stock which could severely limit the market liquidity of our common stock and the ability of holders of our common stock to sell it. We do not intend to pay dividends. We have not paid any cash dividends on any of our securities since inception and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on any of our securities in the foreseeable future. Members of our management hold a substantial amount of our common stock, which will enable these shareholders to exercise influence over many matters requiring shareholder approval and may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control, which could deprive you of an opportunity to receive a premium for your securities as part of a sale of the company and may affect the market price of our stock. Cagan McAfee Capital Partners (“CMCP”), Eric A. McAfee and Laird Q. Cagan, in the aggregate, beneficially own approximately 32.67% of our capital stock on a fully diluted, as converted basis. Mr. Cagan and Mr. McAfee are equal co-owners and Managing Directors of CMCP. In addition, the other members of our Board of Directors and management, in the aggregate, beneficially own approximately 11.3% of our common stock. As a result, these shareholders, acting together, will be able to influence many matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions. See “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.” The interests of these shareholders may differ from yours and this concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control, and could deprive you of an opportunity to receive a premium for your securities as part of a sale of the company and may affect the market price of our securities. Future sales of our securities, or the perception in the markets that these sales may occur, could depress our stock price. We have issued and outstanding approximately (i) 84 million shares of common stock; (ii) 6.5 million shares of Series B Preferred Stock; and (iii) options and warrants grants of 4.2 million shares of common stock and .75 million shares of Series B Preferred Stock. These securities will be eligible for public sale only if registered under the Securities Act or if the shareholder qualifies for an exemption from registration under Rule 144 or Rule 701 under the Securities Act, or other applicable exemption. Our officers, directors and holders of substantially all of our capital stock have not entered into any lock-up agreements restricting their ability to sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of their shares. The market price of our capital stock could drop significantly if the holders of these shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. These factors also could make it more difficult for us to raise capital or make acquisitions through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other equity securities. We are obligated to register the shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock for sale to the public after the Reverse Merger. We have yet to register these shares. In addition, these security holders will have the right to include their securities in any public offering we may undertake in the future or demand that we register some or all of their shares for sale to the public. The registration or sale of any of these securities could cause the market price of our securities to drop significantly. If the registration statement is not been filed timely, the Company will be required to make pro rata payments to each eligible stock investor as liquidated damages and not as a penalty, in the amount equal to 0.5% of the aggregate purchase price paid by such investor for the preferred stock for each thirty (30) day period or pro rata for any portion thereof following the date by which or on which such Registration Statement should have been filed or effective, as the case may be. Payments shall be in full compensation to the investors, and shall constitute the investor's exclusive remedy for such events. The amounts payable as liquidated damages shall be paid in shares of common stock. 16 Item 