ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We operate in an evolving industry the presents numerous risks that are beyond our control that are driven by factors that cannot be predicted. Should any of the risk described in the section or in the documents incorporated by reference in this report actually occur, our business, results of operations, financial condition, or stock price could be materially and adversely affected. Investors should carefully consider the risks factors discussed below, in addition to the other information in this report, before making any investment in our securities. Risks Related to our Overall Business We have incurred significant losses, and may never achieve profitability. If we continue to incur losses, we may have to curtail our operations, which may prevent us from successfully operating and expanding our business. We have a history of significant losses. Historically, we have relied upon cash from debt and equity financing activities to fund substantially all of the cash requirements of our activities and have incurred significant losses and experienced negative cash flow. As of December 31, 2012, we had an accumulated deficit of $69,808,294. For our fiscal years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, we incurred a net loss of $4,282,265 and $18,296,359, respectively. We cannot predict when we will become profitable or if we ever will become profitable. We may continue to incur losses for an indeterminate period of time and may never achieve or sustain profitability. An extended period of losses and negative cash flow may prevent us from successfully operating and expanding our business. Even if we are able to achieve profitability, we may be unable to sustain or increase our profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Our auditor's opinion expresses substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a “going concern.” Our independent auditor's report on our December 31, 2012 financial statements included herein states that the Company has suffered recurring losses and has a working capital deficit and that these conditions raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Should the Company not be able to raise enough equity or debt financings it may be forced to sell all or a portion of its existing biodiesel or ethanol facility or other assets to generate cash to continue the Company’s business plan or possibly discontinue operations. The Company’s consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. 8 Back to Table of Contents We are dependent upon our working capital arrangements with J.D. Heiskell and Secunderabad Oils Limited. Our ability to operate our Keyes plant depends on maintaining our working capital arrangement with J.D. Heiskell and our ability to operate our biodiesel plant in India depends on maintaining our working capital arrangement with Secunderabad Oils Limited. The agreement provides for an initial term of one year with automatic one-year renewals; provided, however, that Heiskell may terminate the agreement by notice 90 days prior to the end of the initial term or any renewal term. The current term extends through December 31, 2013. In addition, the agreement may be terminated at any time upon default. The Secunderabad agreement may be terminated at any time by either party upon written notice. If we are unable to maintain these strategic relationships, we will be required to locate alternative sources of working capital and corn procurement logistics, which we may be unable to do in a timely manner or at all. If we are unable to maintain our current working capital arrangements or locate alternative sources of working capital, our ability to operate our plants will be negatively affected. We may be unable to execute on the Company’s business plan. The value of our long-lived assets is based on our ability to execute our business plan, principally in India, and generate sufficient cash flow to justify the carrying value of this asset. Should we fall short of our cash flow projections, we may be required to write down the value of these assets under the accounting rules and further degrade the value of our business. We can make no assurances that our future cash flows will develop and provide us with sufficient cash to maintain the value of these assets, thus avoiding future impairment to our asset carrying values. As a result, we may need to write down the carrying value of the Company’s long-lived assets. In addition, we plan to implement our own or a third party’s technology at the Keyes ethanol plant and at the India biodiesel plant for the production of advanced fuels and specialty chemicals. After we design and engineer a specific integrated upgrade to either or both plants to allow us to produce products other than their existing products, we may not receive permission from the regulatory agencies to install the process at either plant. Additionally, even if we are able to install and begin operations of an integrated advanced fuels and/or specialty chemical plant, we cannot give assurance that the technology will work and produce cost effective products because we have never designed, engineered nor built this technology into an existing bio-refinery. Any inability to execute on the Company’s business plan may have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial position, and ability to continue as a going concern. We are currently in default on our term loan with the State Bank of India. On March 10, 2011, one of our subsidiaries, Universal Biofuels Pvt. Ltd. (UBPL), received a demand notice from the State Bank of India under the Agreement of Loan for Overall Limit dated as of June 26, 2008. The notice informs UBPL that an event of default has occurred for failure to make an installment payment on the loan commencing June 2009 and demands repayment of the entire outstanding indebtedness of 19.60 crores (approximately $4 million) together with all accrued interest thereon and any applicable fees and expenses. Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, interest accrues at the default interest rate of 2% above the State Bank of India Advance Rate pursuant to the Agreement of Loan for Overall Limit. State Bank of India has filed a legal case before the Debt Recovery Tribunal (DRT), Hyderabad, for recovery of approximately $5.8 million against the Company and also impleaded Andhra Pradesh Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (APIIC) to expedite the process of registration of Factory land for which counter reply is yet to be filed by APIIC. In the case that the Company is unable to prevail with its legal case, DRT may pass a Decree for recovery of due amount, which will impact operations of the company including action up to seizing company property for recovery of their dues. Interest continues to accrue at the default rate in the amount of approximately $48,000 per month during the continuance of default. Due to the improved economics in the biofuels industry, we have been in discussions with the State Bank of India to restructure our debt and secure additional working capital to take advantage of increased demand for our products. We may be unable to repay or refinance our Third Eye Capital Notes upon maturity. On July 6, 2012, we entered into an amended and restated note purchase agreement for a term note in the amount of $15 million, a revolving facility in the amount of $18 million and a revenue participation note in the amount of $10 million. These three facilities have varying maturities over the next two years. In October 2012, Third Eye Capital agreed to extend the maturity of the notes to July 6, 2014, to increase the revolving facility by $6 million, to modify the waterfall, to waive certain financial covenants, and to defer interest payments. In February 2013, Third Eye Capital agreed to waive certain financial covenants, defer interest payments for an additional period, and to pay the January 2013 fee in shares of common stock. We may not be able to continue to extend the maturity of these notes. We may not have sufficient cash available at the time of maturity to repay this indebtedness. We have default covenants that may accelerate the maturities of these notes. We may not have sufficient assets or cash flow available to support refinancing these notes at market rates or on terms that are satisfactory to us. If we are unable to extend the maturity of the notes or refinance on terms satisfactory to us, we may be forced to refinance on terms that are materially less favorable, seek funds through other means such as a sale of some of our assets, or otherwise significantly alter our operating plan, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operation. 9 Back to Table of Contents Our business is affected by greenhouse gas and climate change regulation. The operations at our Keyes plant will result in emission of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. In 2010, the EPA released its final regulations on RFS2. We believe the EPA’s final RFS2 regulations grandfather the Keyes facility we operate at its current capacity. Compliance with future legislation may require us to take action unknown to us at this time that could be costly, require the use of working capital, which may or may not be available, preventing us from operating as planned, which may have a material adverse effect on our operations and cash flow. Our operations are subject to environmental, health, and safety laws, regulations, and liabilities. Our operations are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to the discharge of materials into the air, water and ground, the generation, storage, handling, use, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials, access to and impacts on water supply, and the health and safety of our employees. In addition, our operations and sales in India subject us to risks associated with foreign laws, policies, and regulations. Some of these laws and regulations require our facilities to operate under permits that are subject to renewal or modification. These laws, regulations and permits can require expensive emissions testing and pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit actual or potential impacts to the environment. A violation of these laws and regulations or permit conditions can result in substantial fines, natural resource damages, criminal sanctions, permit revocations and facility shutdowns. We may not be at all times in compliance with these laws, regulations or permits or we may not have all permits required to operate our business. We may be subject to legal actions brought by environmental advocacy groups and other parties for actual or alleged violations of environmental laws or permits. In addition, we may be required to make significant capital expenditures on an ongoing basis to comply with increasingly stringent environmental laws, regulations and permits. We may be liable for the investigation and cleanup of environmental contamination at the Keyes plant and at off-site locations where we arrange for the disposal of hazardous substances. If these substances have been or are disposed of or released at sites that undergo investigation or remediation by regulatory agencies, we may be responsible under CERCLA, or other environmental laws for all or part of the costs of investigation and remediation, and for damage to natural resources. We also may be subject to related claims by private parties alleging property damage and personal injury due to exposure to hazardous or other materials at or from those properties. Some of these matters may require us to expend significant amounts for investigation, cleanup or other costs. New laws, new interpretations of existing laws, increased governmental enforcement of environmental laws or other developments could require us to make additional significant expenditures. Continued government and public emphasis on environmental issues can be expected to result in increased future investments for environmental controls at our production facilities. Environmental laws and regulations applicable to our operations now or in the future, more vigorous enforcement policies and discovery of currently unknown conditions may require substantial expenditures that could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. For example, carbon dioxide is a co-product of the ethanol manufacturing process and may be released into the atmosphere. Emissions of carbon dioxide resulting from the manufacturing process are not currently subject to applicable permit requirements. If new laws or regulations are passed relating to the production, disposal or emissions of carbon dioxide, we may be required to incur significant costs to comply with such new laws or regulations. Our business may suffer if we cannot maintain necessary permits or licenses. Our operations require licenses, permits and in some cases renewals of these licenses and permits from various governmental authorities. Our ability to obtain, sustain, or renew such licenses and permits on acceptable, commercially viable terms are subject to change, as, among other things, the regulations and policies of applicable governmental authorities may change. Any inability to obtain, renew, or the loss of any of these licenses or permits may have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. A change in government policies may cause a decline in the demand for our products. The domestic ethanol industry is highly dependent upon a myriad of federal and state regulations and pending legislation, and any changes in legislation or regulation could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. Other federal and state programs benefiting ethanol, generally are subject to U.S. government obligations under international trade agreements, including those under the World Trade Organization Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures, and may be the subject of challenges, in whole or in part. Growth and demand for ethanol and biodiesel is largely driven by federal and state government mandates or blending requirements, such as the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS). Any change in government policies, which negatively affects our business, may have a material adverse effect our business and the results of our operations. 10 Back to Table of Contents Ethanol can be imported into the United States duty-free from some countries, which may undermine the domestic ethanol industry. Production costs for ethanol in these countries can be significantly less than in the United States and the import of lower price or lower carbon value ethanol from these countries may reduce the demand for domestic ethanol and depress the price at which we sell our ethanol. Waivers of the RFS minimum levels of renewable fuels included in gasoline could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Under the Energy Policy Act, the U.S. Department of Energy, in consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of Energy, may waive the renewable fuels mandate with respect to one or more states if the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency determines that implementing the requirements would severely harm the economy or the environment of a state, a region or the nation, or that there is inadequate supply to meet the requirement. Any waiver of the RFS with respect to one or more states would reduce demand for ethanol and could cause our results of operations to decline and our financial condition to suffer. We are subject to anti-corruption laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA. Our failure to comply with these laws could result in penalties, which could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to the FCPA, which generally prohibits companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business and/or other benefits, along with various other anticorruption laws. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure that we, our employees and other intermediaries comply with the FCPA and other anticorruption laws to which we are subject, there is no assurance that such policies or procedures will work effectively all of the time or protect us against liability under the FCPA or other laws for actions taken by our employees and other intermediaries with respect to our business or any businesses that we may acquire. We have manufacturing operations in India, which poses elevated risks of anti-corruption violations, and we export our products for sale internationally. This puts us in frequent contact with persons who may be considered “foreign officials” under the FCPA, resulting in an elevated risk of potential FCPA violations. If we are not in compliance with the FCPA and other laws governing the conduct of business with government entities (including local laws), we may be subject to criminal and civil penalties and other remedial measures, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Any investigation of any potential violations of the FCPA or other anticorruption laws by U.S. or foreign authorities could harm our reputation and have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may encounter unanticipated difficulties in converting the Keyes plant to accommodate alternative feedstocks, new chemicals used in the fermentation and distillation process, or new mechanical production equipment. In order to improve the operations of the Keyes plant and execute on our business plan, we intend to modify the plant to accommodate alternative feedstocks and new chemical and/or mechanical production processes. These modifications may cost significantly more to complete than our estimates. The plant may not operate at nameplate capacity once the changes are complete. We may be subject to liabilities and losses that may not be covered by insurance. Our employees and facilities are subject to the hazards associated with producing ethanol and biodiesel. Operating hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, damage to, or destruction of, property, plant and equipment and environmental damage. We maintain insurance coverage in amounts and against the risks that we believe are consistent with industry practice. However, we could sustain losses for uninsurable or uninsured risks, or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. Events that result in significant personal injury or damage to our property or to property owned by third parties or other losses that are not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. Insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and quantify due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties, the number of incidents not reported and the effectiveness of our safety program. If we were to experience insurance claims or costs above our coverage limits or that are not covered by our insurance, we might be required to use working capital to satisfy these claims rather than to maintain or expand our operations. To the extent that we experience a material increase in the frequency or severity of accidents or workers’ compensation claims, or unfavorable developments on existing claims, our operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. 11 Back to Table of Contents Our business is dependent on external financing and cash from operations. The construction, repairs, and upgrades of our ethanol and biodiesel plants, along with working capital, were financed in part through debt facilities. We may need to seek additional financing to continue or grow our operations. However, our recent financial performance and generally unfavorable credit market conditions may make it difficult to obtain necessary capital or additional debt financing on commercially viable terms or at all. If we are unable to pay our debt we may be forced to delay or cancel capital expenditures, sell assets, restructure our indebtedness, seek additional financing, or file for bankruptcy. Debt levels or debt service requirements may limit our ability to borrow additional capital, make us vulnerable to increases in prevailing interest rates, subject our assets to liens, limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions, or place us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors because of our leverage. Should we be unable to generate enough cash from our operations or secure additional financing to fund our operations and debt service requirements, we may be required to postpone or cancel growth projects, reduce our operations, or may be unable to meet our debt repayment schedules. Any one of these events may have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial position. The result of our operations is primarily dependent on the spread between the feedstock and energy we purchase and the fuel and co-products we sell. The results of our ethanol production business are significantly affected by the spread between the cost of the corn and natural gas that we purchase and the price of the ethanol and distiller grains that we sell. Our biodiesel business is primarily dependent on the price difference between the costs of the feedstock we purchase (principally; NRPO and crude glycerin) and the products we sell (principally; biodiesel and glycerin). In addition, the markets for ethanol, biodiesel, distiller grains, and glycerin are highly volatile and subject to significant fluctuations. Any decrease in the spread between prices of the commodities we buy and sell, whether as a result of an increase in feedstock prices or a reduction in ethanol or biodiesel prices, would adversely affect our financial performance and cash flow and may cause us to cease production at either of our plants. Our operations subject us to risks associated with foreign laws, policies, regulations, and markets. Our sales and manufacturing operations in foreign countries are subject to the laws, policies, regulations, and markets of the country in which we operate. As a result, our foreign manufacturing operations and sales are subject to inherent risks associated with the countries in which we operate. Risks involving our foreign operations include differences or unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, political and economic instability, terrorism and civil unrest, work stoppages or strikes, natural disasters, interruptions in transportation, restrictions on the export or import of technology, difficulties in staffing and managing international operations, variations in tariffs, quotas, taxes, and other market barriers, longer payment cycles, changes in economic conditions in the international markets in which our products are sold, and greater fluctuations in sales to customers in developing countries. If we are unable to effectively manage the risks associated with our foreign operations, our business may experience a material adverse effect on the results of our operations or financial condition. We are a holding company and there are significant limitations on our ability to receive distributions from our subsidiaries. We conduct substantially all of our operations through subsidiaries and are dependent on dividends or other intercompany transfers of funds from our subsidiaries to finance our operations. Our subsidiaries have not made significant distributions to the Company and may not have funds legally available for dividends or distributions in the future. In addition, we may enter into credit, or other, agreements that would contractually restrict our subsidiaries from paying dividends, making distributions, or making intercompany loans to our parent company or to any other subsidiary. In particular, our credit agreement may require us to obtain the prior consent of the lender for dividends or other intercompany fund transfers. If the amount of capital we are able to raise from financing activities, together with our revenues from operations that are available for distribution, are not sufficient to satisfy our ongoing working capital and corporate overhead requirements needs, even to the extent that we reduce our operations accordingly, we may be required to cease operations. Our business may be subject to natural forces beyond our control. Earthquakes, floods, droughts, tsunamis, and other unfavorable weather conditions may affect our operations. Natural catastrophes may have a detrimental effect on our supply and distribution channels, causing a delay or prevention of our receipt of raw materials from our suppliers or delivery of finished goods to our customers. In addition, weather conditions may adversely impact the planting, growth, harvest, storage, and general availability of any number of the products we may process at our facilities or sell to our customers. The severity of these occurrences, should they ever occur, will determine the extent to which and if our business is materially and adversely affected. 12 Back to Table of Contents Operational difficulties at our facilities may negatively impact our business. Our operations may experience unscheduled downtimes due to technical or structural failure, political and economic instability, terrorism and civil unrest, natural disasters, and other operational hazards inherent to our operations. These hazards may cause personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property, equipment, or the environment, and may result in the suspension of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover the potential hazards described and we may not be able to renew our insurance on commercially reasonable terms or at all. In addition, any reduction in the yield or quality of the products we produce could negatively impact our ability to market our products. Any decrease in the quality, reduction in volume, or cessation of our operations due to these hazards would have a material adverse effect on the results of our business and financial condition. Our success depends on our ability to manage the growth of our operations. Our strategy envisions a period of rapid growth that may impose a significant burden on our administrative and operational resources and personnel, which if not effectively managed, could impair our growth. The growth of our business will require significant investments of capital and management’s close attention. If we are unable to successfully manage our growth, our sales may not increase commensurately with capital expenditures and investments. Our ability to effectively manage our growth will require us to substantially expand the capabilities of our administrative and operational resources and to attract, train, manage and retain qualified management, technicians and other personnel; we may be unable to do so. In addition to our plans to adopt technologies that expand our operations and product offerings at our biodiesel and ethanol plants, we may seek to enter into strategic business relationships with companies to expand our operations. If we are unable to successfully manage our growth, we may be unable to achieve our business goals, which may have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations and financial condition. Our mergers, acquisitions, partnerships, and joint ventures may not be as beneficial as we anticipate. We have increased our operations through mergers, acquisitions, partnerships, and joint ventures and intend to continue to explore these opportunities in the future. The anticipated benefits of these transactions may take longer to realize than expected, may never be fully realized, or even realized at all. Furthermore, partnerships and joint ventures generally involve restrictive covenants on the parties involved, which may limit our ability to manage these agreements in a manner that is in our best interest. Future mergers, acquisitions, partnerships, and joint ventures may involve the issuance of debt or equity, or a combination of the two, as payment for or financing of the business or assets involved, which may dilute ownership interest in our business. Any failure to adequately evaluate and address the risks of and execute on our mergers, acquisitions, partnerships, and joint ventures could have an adverse material effect on our business, results of operations, and financial position. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade name, confidentiality agreements, and other contractual restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. We also enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, and corporate partners, and control access to and distribution of our confidential information. These measures may not preclude the disclosure of our confidential or proprietary information. Despite efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary information. Monitoring unauthorized use of our confidential information is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken to prevent unauthorized use of our confidential information, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect proprietary rights as fully as in the U.S., will be effective. We may not be able to successfully develop and commercialize our technologies, which may require us to curtail or cease our research and development activities. Since 2007, we have been developing patent-pending enzyme technology to enable the production of ethanol from a combination of starch and cellulose, or from cellulose alone, and in July 2011, we acquired Zymetis, Inc., a biochemical research and development firm, with several patents pending and in-process R&D utilizing the Z-microbe™ to produce renewable chemicals and advanced fuels from renewable feedstocks. Although, the viability of our technology has been demonstrated in the lab, there can be no assurance that we will be able to commercialize our technology. To date, we have not completed a large-scale commercial prototype of our technology and are uncertain at this time when completion of a commercial scale prototype will occur. 13 Back to Table of Contents Risks related to our stock There can be no assurance that a liquid public market for our common stock will continue to exist. Although our shares of common stock are quoted on the OTC Markets electronic over-the-counter trading system, a very limited number of shares trade on a regular basis and there may not be a significant market in such stock. There can be no assurance that a regular and established market will be developed and maintained for our common stock. There can also be no assurance as to the strength or liquidity of any market for our common stock or the prices at which holders may be able to sell their shares. It is likely that there will be significant volatility in the trading price of our stock. Market prices for our common stock will be influenced by many factors and will be subject to significant fluctuations in response to variations in our operating results and other factors. Because our business is the operation of our biodiesel plant and the future development and operation of next-generation cellulosic ethanol plants, factors that could affect our future stock price, and create volatility in our stock price, include the price and demand for ethanol and biodiesel, the price and availability of oil and gasoline, the political situation in the Middle East, U.S. energy policies, federal and state regulatory changes that affect the price of ethanol or biodiesel, and the existence or discontinuation of legislative incentives for renewable fuels. Our stock price will also be affected by the trading price of the stock of our competitors, investor perceptions of us, interest rates, general economic conditions and those specific to the ethanol or biodiesel industry, developments with regard to our operations and activities, our future financial condition, and changes in our management. Our stock may have risks associated with low priced stocks. Although our common stock currently is quoted and traded on the OTC Bulletin Board, the price at which the stock will trade in the future cannot currently be estimated. Since December 15, 2008, our common stock has traded below $5.00 per share. As a result, trading in our common stock may be subject to the requirements of certain rules promulgated under the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), which require additional disclosure by broker-dealers in connection with any trades involving a stock defined as a penny stock (generally, any non-Nasdaq equity security that has a market price share of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions) and a two business day “cooling off period” before broker and dealers can effect transactions in penny stocks. For these types of transactions, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction before the sale. The broker-dealer also must disclose the commissions payable to the broker-dealer, current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock and, if the broker-dealer is the sole market-maker, the broker-dealer must disclose this fact and the broker-dealer’s presumed control over the market. These, and the other burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by the penny stock requirements, could discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our common stock, which could severely limit the market liquidity of our common stock and the ability of holders of our common stock to sell it. We do not intend to pay dividends. We have not paid any cash dividends on any of our securities since inception and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on any of our securities in the foreseeable future. Our principal shareholders hold a substantial amount of our common stock. Eric A. McAfee, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, Laird Q. Cagan, a former board member, in the aggregate, beneficially own 32.3% of our common stock outstanding. In addition, the other members of our Board of Directors and management, in the aggregate, excluding Eric McAfee, beneficially own approximately 4.18% of our common stock. Our lender, Third Eye Capital, acting as principal and an agent, beneficially owns 14.72% of our common stock. As a result, these shareholders, acting together, will be able to influence many matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions. See “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.” The interests of these shareholders may differ from yours and this concentration of ownership enables these shareholders to exercise influence over many matters requiring shareholder approval, may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control, and could deprive you of an opportunity to receive a premium for your securities as part of a sale of the company and may affect the market price of our securities. Rule 144 will not be available to holders of restricted shares during any period in which the Company has failed to comply with its reporting obligations under the Exchange Act. From time to time the Company has issued shares in transactions exempt from registration. Shares issued pursuant to exemptions from registration are “restricted securities” within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933. As restricted shares, these shares may be resold only pursuant to an effective registration statement or pursuant to Rule 144 or other applicable exemption from registration under the Securities Act. However, Rule 144 is not available with respect to restricted shares acquired from an issuer that is or was at any time in its past a shell company if the former shell company has failed to file all reports that it is required to file under the Exchange Act during the 12 months preceding the sale. If at any time the Company fails to comply with its reporting obligations under the Exchange Act, Rule 144 will not be available to holders of restricted shares, which may limit your ability to sell your restricted shares. 14 Back to Table of Contents 