Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this report, should be carefully considered in evaluating our business and prospects. Additional information regarding various risks and uncertainties facing us are included under Item 7 and elsewhere in this report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described in this Form 10-K are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or deemed insignificant may also impair our business operations. The occurrence of any of the following risks could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. Solely for purposes of the risk factors in this Item 1A, the terms “we”, “our” and “us” refer to Strategic Distribution, Inc. and its subsidiaries. Certain Factors Affecting Forward Looking Statements Some information provided by us or statements made by us may be subject to uncertainties and risks. Any statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including any statements referenced or incorporated by reference which are not statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements. Our industry is very competitive and we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against all of our competitors. We operate in a highly competitive industry, from the standpoint of number, size and strength of competitors. While most of the distributors are small enterprises selling to customers in a limited geographic area, there are also larger MRO supply distributors, integrated supply providers and large warehouse stores that have greater financial resources than we do. Some of these integrated supply providers are also wholesale distributors that have access to more favorable MRO supply pricing than are available to us. The primary areas of competition include price, breadth and quality of product lines, fill rates, and technological capabilities. Our initiatives continue to set us apart as a leader in our industry through value-added services and comprehensive technological capabilities for our customers. However, we cannot predict the entry of new competitors into the industry or scaling down of competition through consolidations, which may result in a competitor strengthening their competitive position relative to us. We have a high concentration of risk with regards to revenues, inventories and receivables attributable to a few customers. We have a high concentration of revenues, inventory and receivables attributable to a few customers. Loss of any of these customers, without replacement of revenue source, could have a material adverse effect on our business. See Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to the Financial Statements”, Footnote No. 15 for more information. We continue to focus on growth opportunities but cannot guarantee that the market will accept the new modified offerings. We are continuing to refocus our business strategy to meet the demands of an evolving marketplace. We continue our sales initiative for fee-for-services models which place a greater emphasis upon the value-added supply chain management services, as opposed to MRO product sales and inventory ownership. To this extent, we have continued to enhance our service offering by increasing system capabilities and providing more flexible solutions, including In-Site Online designed for smaller sites where a comprehensive In-Plant Store is not economically justified. We believe these changes in offering, combined with intensified MRO supply pricing pressure, have lengthened our sales cycle. We also believe that the modified offerings will gain market acceptance as customers come to understand this value proposition, yet there is no guarantee concerning whether or when such market acceptance will occur. 6 We do experience some seasonality in our business with regards to revenues from one institutional customer. Our revenues are affected by such things as the length of sales cycles, and the timing of new customer contracts. As such, our revenues are difficult to predict, but typically there is a spike in revenues and associated costs during the third quarter of the year, particularly with regard to an institutional customer. Although we operate under formal contracts with all our customers, we do run the risk of contract termination for causes beyond our control. We operate under formal contracts with all of our customers. In the past, several larger customers terminated contracts which had material impact on our revenues. Our management continuously works with our customers to gauge their satisfaction with the contracts and our performance, and therefore, we should be able to anticipate such events and react accordingly. In addition, our cultivation of new prospects is an ongoing process. Over the past three years, El Paso Corporation (“EPC”), our largest customer in 2003, terminated our contract. Revenues from EPC in 2003 through the termination date were $16.0 million. Our deliverables to customers are highly dependent upon the smooth functioning of our systems. Our ability to provide reliable technical services is dependent upon the efficiency and effectiveness of our network systems and data centers. Our ability to sell services outside the United States is highly dependent upon laws and policies in these countries. We operate outside the U.S., both in Canada and Mexico. Changes in the laws or policies of countries in which we operate could affect our results of operations. Our ability to operate efficiently is dependent on our reaction to economic changes. Our results may be adversely affected by macroeconomic changes, such as inflation and recession. In the event of economic downturn, we could experience customer bankruptcies, reduced volume of business from our existing customers and lost volume due to plant shutdowns, or consolidations of our customers. Our ability to grow our infrastructure is highly dependent upon hiring and retaining key personnel. Our continued growth and success is inherently dependent upon the retention of senior management and other key employees, the development and training of employees for management positions, and the hiring of new qualified personnel. There is no assurance that we will continue to effectively recruit and retain key personnel in management positions. Our continued focus to grow the margin and income is contingent on the control of operating costs and general and administrative expenses. We continue to monitor our costs, however, there is no assurance that further cost reductions can be made without inhibiting potential growth. We rely on certain information to make customer credit decisions. We maintain an experienced credit staff and rely on customer payment and credit history in making customer credit decisions. However, we may experience credit losses in excess of projections. See “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements”, Schedule II for quantitative information. 7 Item 1B. Unresolved Comments Not applicable. 