Item 1A. Risk Factors If you hold our securities or are considering an investment in our securities, you should carefully consider the following risks, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report. Risks Relating to Our Clients and Contracts The demand for our services is substantially dependent on the level of offshore oil and gas exploration, development and production activity. We provide helicopter services to companies engaged in offshore oil and gas exploration, development and production activities. As a result, demand for our services, as well as our revenue and our profitability, are substantially dependent on the worldwide levels of activity in offshore oil and gas exploration, development and production. These activity levels are principally affected by trends in, and expectations regarding, oil and gas prices, as well as the capital expenditure budgets of offshore energy companies. We cannot predict future exploration, development and production activity or oil and gas price movements. Historically, the prices for oil and gas and activity levels have been volatile and are subject to factors beyond our control, such as: • the supply of and demand for oil and gas and market expectations for such supply and demand; • actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and other oil producing countries to control prices or change production levels; • general economic conditions, both worldwide and in particular regions; • governmental regulation; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; • weather conditions, including the impact of hurricanes and other weather-related phenomena; • advances in exploration, development and production technology; • the policies of various governments regarding exploration and development of their oil and gas reserves; and • the worldwide political environment, including uncertainty or instability resulting from an escalation or additional outbreak of armed hostilities or other crises in the Middle East or the other geographic areas in which we operate (including, but not limited to, Nigeria), or further acts of terrorism in the U.K., U.S. or elsewhere. The implementation by our clients of cost-saving measures could reduce the demand for our services. Offshore energy companies are continually seeking to implement measures aimed at greater cost savings, including efforts to improve cost efficiencies with respect to helicopter transportation services. For example, these companies may reduce staffing levels on both old and new installations by using new technology to permit unmanned installations and may reduce the frequency of transportation of employees by increasing the length of shifts offshore. In addition, these companies could initiate their own helicopter or other transportation alternatives. The continued implementation of these kinds of measures could reduce the demand for helicopter services and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our industry is highly competitive and cyclical, with intense price competition. The helicopter business is highly competitive throughout the world. Chartering of helicopters is often done on the basis of competitive bidding among those providers having the necessary equipment, operational experience and resources. Factors that affect competition in our industry include price, quality of service, operational experience, record of safety, quality and type of equipment, client relationship and professional reputation. Our industry has historically been cyclical and is affected by the volatility of oil and gas price levels. There have been periods of high demand for our services, followed by periods of low demand for our services. Changes in commodity prices can have a significant effect on demand for our services, and periods of low activity intensify price competition in the industry and often result in our aircraft being idle for long periods of time. 16 Table of Contents We have several significant competitors in the North Sea, Nigeria, the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and Australia, and a number of smaller local competitors in other markets. Certain of our clients have the capability to perform their own helicopter operations should they elect to do so, which has a limiting effect on our rates. As a result of significant competition, we must continue to provide safe and efficient service or we will lose market share, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations due to the loss of a significant number of our clients or termination of a significant number of our contracts. See further discussion in Item 1. “Business — Competition” included elsewhere in this Annual Report. We depend on a small number of large offshore energy industry clients for a significant portion of our revenue. We derive a significant amount of our revenue from a small number of offshore energy companies. Our loss of one of these significant clients, if not offset by sales to new or other existing clients, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See further discussion in Item 1. “Business – Clients and Contracts” included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Our contracts generally can be terminated or downsized by our clients without penalty. Many of our fixed-term contracts contain provisions permitting early termination by the client for any reason, generally without penalty, and with limited notice requirements. In addition, many of our contracts permit our clients to decrease the number of aircraft under contract with a corresponding decrease in the fixed monthly payments without penalty. As a result, you should not place undue reliance on our client contracts or the terms of those contracts. We may not be able to obtain client contracts with acceptable terms covering some of our new helicopters, and some of our new helicopters may replace existing helicopters already under contract, which could adversely affect the utilization of our existing fleet. We have ordered, and have options for, a substantial number of new helicopters. Many of our new helicopters may not be covered by client contracts when they are placed into service, and we cannot assure you as to when we will be able to utilize these new helicopters or on what terms. To the extent our helicopters are covered by a client contract when they are placed into service, many of these contracts are for a short term, requiring us to seek renewals more frequently. Alternatively, we expect that some of our clients may request new helicopters in lieu of our existing helicopters, which could adversely affect the utilization of our existing fleet. Reductions in spending on helicopter services by government agencies could lead to modifications of SAR contract terms or delays in receiving payments which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have contracts with government agencies in the U.K. and Australia and were recently awarded a contract to provide SAR services for all of the U.K. Any reductions in the budgets of government agencies for spending on helicopter services, implementation of cost saving measures by government agencies, imposed modifications of contract terms or delays in collecting receivables owed to us by our government agency clients could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, there are inherent risks in contracting with government agencies. Applicable laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate may enable our government agency clients to (i) terminate contracts for convenience, (ii) reduce, modify or cancel contracts or subcontracts if requirements or budgetary constraints change, or (iii) terminate contracts or adjust their terms. Risks Relating to Our Business We are highly dependent upon the level of activity in the North Sea and to a lesser extent the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, which are mature exploration and production regions. In fiscal years 2013, 2012 and 2011 approximately 54%, 54%, and 53%, respectively, of our gross revenue was derived from helicopter services provided to clients operating in the North Sea and the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. The North Sea and the U.S. Gulf of Mexico are mature exploration and production regions that have undergone substantial seismic survey and exploration activity for many years. Because a large number of oil and gas properties in these regions have already been drilled, additional prospects of sufficient size and quality could be more difficult to identify. Generally, the production from these drilled oil and gas properties is declining. In the future, production may decline to the point that 17 Table of Contents such properties are no longer economic to operate, in which case, our services with respect to such properties will no longer be needed. Oil and gas companies may not identify sufficient additional drilling sites to replace those that become depleted. In addition, the U.S. government’s exercise of authority under the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act, as amended, to restrict the availability of offshore oil and gas leases could adversely impact exploration and production activity in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. If activity in oil and gas exploration, development and production in either the North Sea or the U.S. Gulf of Mexico materially declines, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We cannot predict the levels of activity in these areas. Any new changes to deepwater drilling laws and regulations, delays in the processing and approval of permits and other related developments in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico as well as our other locations could adversely affect our business. In 2010, the Department of Interior issued new rules designed to improve drilling and workplace safety in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, and various congressional committees began pursuing legislation to regulate drilling activities and increase liability. The Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of Safety and Environment Enforcement and Office of National Resources Revenue are expected to continue to issue new safety and environmental guidelines or regulations for drilling in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, and other regulatory agencies could potentially issue new safety and environmental guidelines or regulations in other geographic regions, and may take other steps that could increase the costs of exploration and production, reduce the area of operations and result in permitting delays. We are monitoring legislation and regulatory developments; however, it is difficult to predict the ultimate impact of any new guidelines, regulations or legislation. A prolonged suspension of drilling activity or permitting delays in the U.S. and abroad and new regulations and increased liability for companies operating in this sector could result in reduced demand for our services, and reduced cash flows and profitability. Our dependence on a small number of helicopter manufacturers poses a significant risk to our business and prospects, including our ability to execute our growth strategy. We contract with a small number of manufacturers for most of our aircraft expansion and replacement needs. If any of these manufacturers face production delays due to, for example, natural disasters, labor strikes or availability of skilled labor, we may experience a significant delay in the delivery of previously ordered aircraft. During these periods, we may not be able to obtain orders for additional aircraft with acceptable pricing, delivery dates or other terms. Delivery delays or our inability to obtain acceptable aircraft orders would adversely affect our revenue and profitability and could jeopardize our ability to meet the demands of our clients and grow our business. Additionally, lack of availability of new aircraft resulting from a backlog in orders could result in an increase in prices for certain types of used helicopters. A shortfall in availability of aircraft components and parts required for maintenance and repairs of our aircraft and supplier cost increases could adversely affect us. In connection with the required routine maintenance and repairs performed on our aircraft in order for them to stay fully operational and available for use in our operations, we rely on a few key vendors for the supply and overhaul of components fitted to our aircraft. Those vendors have historically worked at or near full capacity supporting the aircraft production lines and the maintenance requirements of the aircraft operators who may also operate at or near capacity in certain industries, including operators such as us who support the energy industry. Such conditions can result in backlogs in manufacturing schedules and some parts being in limited supply from time to time, which could have an adverse impact upon our ability to maintain and repair our aircraft. To the extent that these suppliers also supply parts for aircraft used by the U.S. military, parts delivery for our aircraft may be delayed during periods in which there are high levels of military operations. Our inability to perform timely maintenance and repairs can result in our aircraft being underutilized which could have an adverse impact on our operating results. Furthermore, our operations in remote locations, where delivery of these components and parts could take a significant period of time, may also impact our ability to maintain and repair our aircraft. While every effort is made to mitigate such impact, this may pose a risk to our operating results. Additionally, supplier cost increases for critical aircraft components and parts also pose a risk to our operating results. Cost increases are passed through to our clients through rate increases where possible, including as a component of contract escalation charges. However, as certain of our contracts are long-term in nature, cost increases may not be adjusted in our contract rates until the contracts are up for renewal. Our future growth depends on the level of international oil and gas activity and our ability to operate outside of the North Sea and the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. Our future growth will depend significantly on our ability to expand into markets outside of the North Sea and the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. Expansion of our business depends on our ability to operate in these other regions. 18 Table of Contents Expansion of our business outside of the North Sea and the U.S. Gulf of Mexico may be adversely affected by: • local regulations restricting foreign ownership of helicopter operators; • requirements to award contracts to local operators; and • the number and location of new drilling concessions granted by foreign governments. We cannot predict the restrictions or requirements that may be imposed in the countries in which we operate. If we are unable to continue to operate or retain contracts in markets outside of the North Sea and the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, our future business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected, and our operations outside of the North Sea and the U.S. Gulf of Mexico may not grow. In order to grow our business, we may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available to us. Our business is capital intensive, and to the extent we do not generate sufficient cash from operations, we will need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings to execute our growth strategy. Adequate sources of capital funding may not be available when needed, or may not be available on favorable terms. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity or certain types of convertible debt securities, dilution to the holdings of existing stockholders may result. If funding is insufficient at any time in the future, we may be unable to acquire additional aircraft, take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could harm our business. See discussion of our capital commitments in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Future Cash Requirements” included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Our operations in certain markets are subject to additional risks. During fiscal years 2013, 2012 and 2011, approximately 28%, 30% and 30%, respectively, of our gross revenue was attributable to helicopter services provided to clients operating in our West Africa and Other International business units. Operations in most of these areas are subject to various risks inherent in conducting business in international locations, including: • political, social and economic instability, including risks of war, general strikes and civil disturbances; • physical and economic retribution directed at U.S. companies and personnel; • governmental actions that restrict payments or the movement of funds or result in the deprivation of contract rights; • violations of our Code; • the taking of property without fair compensation; and • the lack of well-developed legal systems in some countries that could make it difficult for us to enforce our contractual rights. For example, there has been continuing political and social unrest in Nigeria, where we derived 20%, 19% and 18% of our gross revenue during fiscal years 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Also, operations ceased in Libya due to civil war and the implementation of sanctions. Future unrest in Nigeria or our other operating regions could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations in those periods. We cannot predict whether any of these events will continue to occur in Nigeria or occur elsewhere in the future. Foreign exchange risks and controls may affect our financial position and results of operations. Through our operations outside the U.S., we are exposed to foreign currency fluctuations and exchange rate risks. As a result, a strong U.S. dollar may increase the local cost of our services that are provided under U.S. dollar-denominated contracts, which may reduce the demand for our services in foreign countries. Generally, we do not enter into hedging transactions to protect against foreign exchange risks related to our gross revenue or operating expense. Because we maintain our financial statements in U.S. dollars, our financial results are vulnerable to fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies, such as the British pound sterling, Australian dollar, euro, Nigerian naira and Norwegian kroner. In preparing our financial statements, we must convert all non-U.S. dollar currencies to U.S. dollars. The effect of foreign currency translation is reflected as a component of stockholders’ investment, while foreign currency transaction gains or losses and translation of currency amounts not deemed permanently reinvested are credited or charged to income and reflected in other income (expense), net. Additionally, our 19 Table of Contents earnings from unconsolidated affiliates, net of losses, are affected by the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the reported results of our unconsolidated affiliates, primarily the impact of changes in the Brazilian real and the U.S. dollar exchange rate on results for our affiliate in Brazil. Changes in exchange rates could cause significant changes in our financial position and results of operations in the future. We operate in countries with foreign exchange controls including Brazil, Egypt, Malaysia, Nigeria, Russia and Turkmenistan. These controls may limit our ability to repatriate funds from our international operations and unconsolidated affiliates or otherwise convert local currencies into U.S. dollars. These limitations could adversely affect our ability to access cash from these operations. See further discussion of foreign exchange risks and controls under Item 7A. “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk” included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Labor problems could adversely affect us. Certain of our employees in the U.K., Norway, Nigeria, the U.S. and Australia (collectively, about 59% of our employees) are represented under collective bargaining or union agreements. Any disputes over the terms of these agreements or our potential inability to negotiate acceptable contracts with the unions that represent our employees under these agreements could result in strikes, work stoppages or other slowdowns by the affected workers. Periodically, certain groups of our employees who are not covered under a collective bargaining agreement consider entering into such an agreement. If our unionized workers engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown, other employees elect to become unionized, existing labor agreements are renegotiated, or future labor agreements contain terms that are unfavorable to us, we could experience a disruption of our operations or higher ongoing labor costs, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. See Item 1. “Business — Employees” included elsewhere in this Annual Report for further discussion on the status of collective bargaining or union agreements. Our failure to attract and retain qualified personnel could have an adverse effect on us. Our ability to attract and retain qualified pilots, mechanics and other highly-trained personnel is an important factor in determining our future success. For example, many of our clients require pilots with very high levels of flight experience. The market for these experienced and highly-trained personnel is competitive and may become more competitive. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in our efforts to attract and retain such personnel. Some of our pilots, mechanics and other personnel, as well as those of our competitors, are members of the U.K. or U.S. military reserves who have been, or could be, called to active duty. If significant numbers of such personnel are called to active duty, it would reduce the supply of such workers and likely increase our labor costs. Additionally, the addition of new aircraft types to our fleet may require us to retain additional pilots, mechanics and other flight-related personnel. Our failure to attract and retain qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our current business and future growth. Helicopter operations involve risks that may not be covered by our insurance, may increase our operating costs and are subject to weather-related and seasonal fluctuations. The operation of helicopters inherently involves a degree of risk. Hazards such as harsh weather and marine conditions, mechanical failures, crashes and collisions are inherent in our business and may result in personal injury, loss of life, damage to property and equipment and suspension or reduction of operations. Our aircraft have been involved in accidents in the past, some of which have included loss of life and property damage. We may experience similar accidents in the future. We attempt to protect ourselves against these losses and damage by carrying insurance, including hull and liability, general liability, workers’ compensation, and property and casualty insurance. Our insurance coverage is subject to deductibles and maximum coverage amounts, and we do not carry insurance against all types of losses, including business interruption. We cannot assure you that our existing coverage will be sufficient to protect against all losses, that we will be able to maintain our existing coverage in the future or that the premiums will not increase substantially. In addition, future terrorist activity, risks of war, accidents or other events could increase our insurance premiums. The loss of our liability insurance coverage, inadequate coverage from our liability insurance or substantial increases in future premiums could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents Generally, our operations can be impaired by harsh weather conditions. Poor visibility, high wind, heavy precipitation, sand storms and volcanic ash can affect the operation of helicopters and result in a reduced number of flight hours. A significant portion of our operating revenue is dependent on actual flight hours, and a substantial portion of our direct cost is fixed. Thus, prolonged periods of harsh weather can have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, severe weather patterns, including those resulting from climate change, could affect the operation of helicopters and result in a reduced number of flight hours, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The fall and winter months have fewer hours of daylight, particularly in the North Sea and Alaska. While some of our aircraft are equipped to fly at night, we generally do not do so. In addition, drilling activity in the North Sea and Alaska is lower during the winter months than the rest of the year. Anticipation of harsh weather during this period causes many oil companies to limit activity during the winter months. Consequently, flight hours are generally lower during these periods, typically resulting in a reduction in operating revenue during those months. Accordingly, our reduced ability to operate in harsh weather conditions and darkness may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Harmattan, a dry and dusty West African trade wind, blows in Nigeria between the end of November and the middle of March. The heavy amount of dust in the air can severely limit visibility and block the sun for several days, comparable to a heavy fog. We are unable to operate aircraft during these harsh conditions. Consequently, flight hours may be lower during these periods resulting in reduced operating revenue, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, the months of December through March have more days of harsh weather conditions than the other months of the year. Heavy fog during those months often limits visibility. In addition, in the Gulf of Mexico, June through November is tropical storm and hurricane season. When a tropical storm or hurricane is about to enter or begins developing in the Gulf of Mexico, flight activity may increase because of evacuations of offshore workers. However, during a tropical storm or hurricane, we are unable to operate in the area of the storm. In addition, as a significant portion of our facilities are located along the coast of the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, tropical storms and hurricanes may cause substantial damage to our property in these locations, including helicopters. Additionally, we incur costs in evacuating our aircraft, personnel and equipment prior to tropical storms and hurricanes. We are increasingly dependent on information technology, and if we are unable to protect against service interruptions, data corruption, cyber-based attacks or network security breaches, our operations could be disrupted and our business could be negatively impacted. Our business is increasingly dependent upon information technology networks and systems to process, transmit and store electronic and financial information; to capture knowledge of our business; and to communicate within our company and with clients, suppliers, partners and other stakeholders. These information technology systems, some of which are managed by third parties, may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to failures during the process of upgrading or replacing software, databases or components thereof, power outages, hardware failures, computer viruses, cyber attacks, telecommunication failures, user errors or catastrophic events. If our information technology systems suffer severe damage, disruption or shutdown, and our business continuity plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, we could experience business disruptions, and transaction errors causing a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, cyber attacks could lead to potential unauthorized access and disclosure of confidential information, data loss, data corruption, communication interruption or other operational disruptions within our business. There is no assurance that we will not experience cyber attacks and suffer losses in the future. Further, as the methods of cyber attacks continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any vulnerabilities to cyber attacks. We operate in many international areas through entities that we do not control and are subject to government regulation that limits foreign ownership of aircraft companies. We conduct many of our international operations through entities in which we have a noncontrolling investment or through strategic alliances with foreign partners. For example, we have acquired interests in, or in some cases have lease and service agreements with, entities that operate aircraft in Brazil, Canada, Egypt, Mexico, Nigeria, the U.K., Russia and Turkmenistan. We provide engineering and administrative support to certain of these entities. We derive significant amounts of lease revenue, service revenue, equity earnings and dividend income from these entities. In fiscal years 2013, 2012 and 2011, we received approximately $54.0 million, $29.4 million and $63.6 million, respectively, of revenue from the provision of aircraft and other services to unconsolidated affiliates. Because we do not own a majority 21 Table of Contents interest or maintain voting control of our unconsolidated affiliates, we do not have the ability to control their policies, management or affairs. The interests of persons who control these entities or partners may differ from ours, and may cause such entities to take actions that are not in our best interest. If we are unable to maintain our relationships with our partners in these entities, we could lose our ability to operate in these areas, potentially resulting in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In Nigeria, we have seen a recent increase in competitive pressure and new regulation that could impact our ability to win future work at levels previously anticipated. In order to properly and fully embrace new regulations, we have agreed in principle to make a number of key changes to our operating model in Nigeria, while maintaining safety as our number one priority at all times. These changes are still being finalized, with the objectives of these changes being (a) allowing each of BHNL and PAAN to operate freely in the market place each as a completely separate entity with its own distinct identity, management and workforce, (b) providing technical aviation maintenance services through a new wholly-owned Bristow Group entity, BATS, and (c) each of BHNL, PAAN and BATS committing to continue to apply and use all key Bristow Group standards and policies, including without limitation our Target Zero safety program, our Code of Business Integrity and our Operations Manuals. As a result of these changes, our ability to continue to consolidate BHNL and PAAN under the current accounting requirements could change. We are subject to governmental regulation that limits foreign ownership of aircraft companies. Based on regulations in various markets in which we operate, our aircraft may be subject to deregistration and we may lose our ability to operate within these countries if certain levels of local ownership are not maintained. Deregistration of our aircraft for any reason, including foreign ownership in excess of permitted levels, would have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct operations within these markets. We cannot assure you that there will be no changes in aviation laws, regulations or administrative requirements or the interpretations thereof, that could restrict or prohibit our ability to operate in certain regions. Any such restriction or prohibition on our ability to operate may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See further discussion in Item 1. “Business — Governmental Regulation” included elsewhere in this Annual Report. We are subject to tax and other legal compliance risks. We are subject to a variety of tax and other legal compliance risks. These risks include, among other things, possible liability relating to taxes and compliance with U.S. and foreign export laws such as ITAR and the European Union Dual-Use Export Regulations, competition laws and laws governing improper business practices such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act. We or one of our business units could be charged with wrongdoing as a result of such matters. If convicted or found liable, we could be subject to significant fines, penalties, repayments, other damages (in certain cases, treble damages), or suspension or debarment from government contracts. Independently, our failure to comply with applicable export and trade practice laws could result in civil or criminal penalties and suspension or termination of export privileges. As a global business, we are subject to complex laws and regulations in the U.K., the U.S. and other countries in which we operate. Those laws and regulations may be interpreted in different ways. They may also change from time to time, as may interpretations and other guidance. Changes in laws or regulations could result in higher expenses and payments, and uncertainty relating to laws or regulations may also affect how we conduct our operations and structure our investments and could limit our ability to enforce our rights. Failure to maintain standards of acceptable safety performance may have an adverse impact on our ability to attract and retain clients and could adversely impact our reputation, operations and financial performance. Our clients consider safety and reliability as the two primary attributes when selecting a provider of helicopter transportation services. If we fail to maintain standards of safety and reliability that are satisfactory to our clients, our ability to retain current clients and attract new clients may be adversely affected. In addition, helicopter accidents or similar disasters of another helicopter operator could result in the grounding of aircraft in our fleet. For example, on October 22, 2012, an incident occurred with a Eurocopter EC225 Super Puma helicopter operated by another helicopter company, which resulted in a controlled ditching on the North Sea, south of the Shetland Isles, U.K. Following the ditching, all 19 passengers and crew were recovered safely and without injuries. Related to this incident, the Civil Aviation Authorities (“CAAs”) in the U.K. and Norway issued safety directives in October 2012, requiring operators to suspend operations of the affected aircraft. As a result, we will not be operating a total of sixteen large Eurocopter EC225 aircraft until further notice: twelve in the U.K., three in Australia and one in Norway. Accidents or disasters could impact client confidence and lead to a reduction in client contracts, particularly if such helicopter accidents or disasters were due to a safety fault in a type of helicopter used in our fleet. In addition, the loss of aircraft as a result of accidents could cause significant adverse publicity and the interruption of air services to our clients, which could adversely impact our reputation, operations and financial results. Our aircraft have been involved in accidents in the past, some of which have included loss of life and property damage. We may experience similar accidents in the future. 22 Table of Contents Actions taken by agencies empowered to enforce governmental regulations could increase our costs and reduce our ability to operate successfully. Our operations are regulated by governmental agencies in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. These agencies have jurisdiction over many aspects of our business, including personnel, aircraft and ground facilities. Statutes and regulations in these jurisdictions also subject us to various certification and reporting requirements and inspections regarding safety, training and general regulatory compliance. Other statutes and regulations in these jurisdictions regulate the offshore operations of our clients. The agencies empowered to enforce these statutes and regulations may suspend, curtail or require us to modify our operations. A suspension or substantial curtailment of our operations for any prolonged period, and any substantial modification of our current operations, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See further discussion in Item 1. “Business — Government Regulation” and “Business — Environmental” included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Changes in effective tax rates, taxation of our foreign subsidiaries or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our tax returns could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws, both domestically and internationally. From time to time, the U.S. Congress and foreign, state and local governments consider legislation that could increase our effective tax rates. We cannot determine whether, or in what form, legislation will ultimately be enacted or what the impact of any such legislation would be on our profitability. If these or other changes to tax laws are enacted, our profitability could be negatively impacted. Our future effective tax rates could also be adversely affected by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, the ultimate repatriation of earnings from foreign subsidiaries to the U.S., or by changes in tax treaties, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof in one or more countries in which we operate. In addition, we are subject to the potential examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities where we file tax returns. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that such examinations will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Environmental regulations and liabilities may increase our costs and adversely affect us. Our operations are subject to U.S. federal, state and local, and foreign environmental laws and regulations that impose limitations on the discharge of pollutants into the environment and establish standards for the treatment, storage, recycling and disposal of toxic and hazardous wastes. The nature of the business of operating and maintaining helicopters requires that we use, store and dispose of materials that are subject to environmental regulation. Environmental laws and regulations change frequently, which makes it impossible for us to predict their cost or impact on our future operations. Liabilities associated with environmental matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could be exposed to strict, joint and several liability for cleanup costs, natural resource damages and other damages as a result of our conduct that was lawful at the time it occurred or the conduct of, or conditions caused by, prior operators or other third parties. Additionally, any failure by us to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations may result in governmental authorities taking action against our business that could adversely impact our operations and financial condition, including the: • issuance of administrative, civil and criminal penalties; • denial or revocation of permits or other authorizations; • imposition of limitations on our operations; and • performance of site investigatory, remedial or other corrective actions. Changes in environmental laws or regulations, including laws relating to greenhouse emissions or other climate change concerns, could require us to devote capital or other resources to comply with those laws and regulations. These changes could also subject us to additional costs and restrictions, including increased fuel costs. For additional information see Item 1. “Business — Environmental” and Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” included elsewhere in this Annual Report. 23 Table of Contents Our failure to dispose of aircraft through sales into the aftermarket could adversely affect us. The management of our global aircraft fleet involves a careful evaluation of the expected demand for helicopter services across global markets, including the type of aircraft needed to meet this demand. As offshore oil and gas drilling and production globally moves to deeper water, more medium and large aircraft and newer technology aircraft may be required. As older aircraft models come off of current contracts and are replaced by new aircraft, our management evaluates our future needs for these aircraft models and ultimately the ability to recover our remaining investments in these aircraft through sales into the aftermarket. We depreciate our aircraft over their expected useful life to the expected salvage value to be received for the aircraft at the end of that life; however, depending on the market for aircraft we may record gains or losses on aircraft sales. In certain instances where a cash return can be made on newer aircraft in excess of the expected return available through the provision of helicopter services, we may sell newer aircraft. The number of aircraft sales and the amount of gains and losses recorded on these sales is unpredictable. Risks Related to Worldwide Economic Activity and Financial Markets Worldwide economic downturns could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, profitability and financial position. A slowdown in economic activity caused by a recession could reduce worldwide demand for energy and result in an extended period of lower oil and natural gas prices. Demand for our services depends on oil and natural gas industry activity and expenditure levels that are directly affected by trends in oil and natural gas prices. A reduction in oil and natural gas prices could depress the activity levels of oil and gas companies which in turn would reduce demand for our services. Perceptions of longer-term lower oil and natural gas prices by oil and gas companies can similarly further reduce or defer major expenditures given the long-term nature of many large-scale development projects. Lower levels of activity can result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. Additionally, these factors may adversely impact our statement of financial position if they are determined to cause impairment of our goodwill, intangible assets, long-lived assets or assets held for sale. Global financial market instability could impact our business and financial condition. Financial market instability in the global financial system could have an impact on our business and our financial condition. We may face significant challenges if conditions in the financial markets are poor. Our ability to access the capital markets may be severely restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to access such markets, which could have an impact on our growth plans or on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. The financial market instability could have an impact on the lenders under our Credit Facilities or on our clients, causing them to fail to meet their obligations to us. Financial market difficulties could also adversely affect the ability of suppliers to meet scheduled delivery dates for our new aircraft and other aircraft parts. Risks Related to Our Level of Indebtedness Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and impair our ability to fulfill our obligations under our indebtedness. As of March 31, 2013, we had approximately $787.3 million of outstanding indebtedness. We have a significant amount of financial leverage from fixed obligations, including aircraft leases, leases of airport property and other facilities, and other material cash obligations. In addition, we have substantial non-cancelable commitments for capital expenditures, including the acquisition of new aircraft. Our level of indebtedness may have important consequences to our business, including: • impairing our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes; • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, which reduces the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes or to repurchase our notes upon a change of control; 24 Table of Contents • subjecting us to the risk of increased sensitivity to interest rate increases on our indebtedness with variable interest rates, including our borrowings under our Credit Facilities; • increasing the possibility of an event of default under the financial and other covenants contained in our debt instruments; and • limiting our ability to adjust to rapidly changing market conditions, reducing our ability to withstand competitive pressures and making us more vulnerable to a downturn in general economic conditions or our business than our competitors with less debt. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt, we may be required to refinance all or a portion of our existing debt or obtain additional financing. There is no assurance that any such refinancing would be possible or that any additional financing could be obtained. Our inability to obtain such refinancing or financing may have a material adverse effect on us. Despite our current level of indebtedness, we may incur substantially more debt, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our level of indebtedness. We had $199.4 million of availability for borrowings under our Credit Facilities as of March 31, 2013, subject to our maintenance of financial covenants and other conditions. Although the agreements governing our Credit Facilities and the indenture governing our 6 1/4% Senior Notes due 2022 (“6 1/4% Senior Notes”) contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and we could incur substantial additional indebtedness. In addition to amounts that we may borrow under our Credit Facilities, the indenture governing the 6 1/4% Senior Notes also allows us to borrow significant amounts of money from other sources. Also, these restrictions do not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute “indebtedness” as defined in the relevant agreement. If we incur additional indebtedness, the related risks that we now face could intensify. To service our indebtedness we will continue to require a significant amount of cash, and our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make scheduled payments of principal or interest with respect to our indebtedness will depend on our ability to generate cash and on our financial results. Our ability to generate cash depends on the demand for our services, which is subject to levels of activity in offshore oil and gas exploration, development and production, general economic conditions, the ability of our affiliates to generate and distribute cash flows, and financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our operations will generate sufficient cash flow or that future borrowings will be available to us under our Credit Facilities or otherwise in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. Covenants in our debt agreements may restrict the manner in which we can operate our business. Our Credit Facilities and the indenture governing the 6 1/4% Senior Notes limit, among other things, our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to: • borrow money or issue guarantees; • pay dividends, redeem capital stock or make other restricted payments; • incur liens to secure indebtedness; • make certain investments; • sell certain assets; • enter into transactions with our affiliates; or • merge with another person or sell substantially all of our assets. If we fail to comply with these and other covenants, we would be in default under our Credit Facilities and the indenture governing the 6 1/4% Senior Notes, and the principal and accrued interest on our outstanding indebtedness may become due and payable. In addition, our Credit Facilities contain, and our future indebtedness agreements may contain, additional affirmative and negative covenants. 25 Table of Contents As a result, our ability to respond to changes in business and economic conditions and to obtain additional financing, if needed, may be significantly restricted, and we may be prevented from engaging in transactions that might otherwise be considered beneficial to us. Our Credit Facilities also require, and our future credit facilities may require, us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests. Our ability to meet these financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet those tests in the future. The breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our Credit Facilities. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our existing or future credit facilities, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under such credit facilities, including accrued interest or other obligations, to be immediately due and payable. There can be no assurance that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full all of our indebtedness. The instruments governing certain of our indebtedness, including our Credit Facilities and the indentures governing the 6 1/4% Senior Notes and the 3% Convertible Senior Notes, contain cross-default provisions. Under these provisions, a default under one instrument governing our indebtedness may constitute a default under our other instruments of indebtedness. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 