Item 1A: Risk Factors Factors that May Affect Business and Future Results. The availability and cost of agricultural products Penford purchases are vulnerable to weather and other factors beyond its control. The Company’s ability to pass through cost increases for these products is limited by worldwide competition and other factors. In fiscal 2007, approximately 33% of Penford’s manufacturing costs were the costs of corn, wheat flour and potato starch. Weather conditions, plantings, government programs and policies, and energy costs and global 8 Table of Contents supply, among other things, have historically caused volatility in the supply and prices of these agricultural products. For example, in 2006 and 2007, growing regions in Australia experienced significant droughts, reducing crop yields and increasing acquisition costs for grain raw materials. Due to local and/or international competition, particularly in the Australia/New Zealand operations, the Company may not be able to pass through the increases in the cost of agricultural raw materials to its customers. To manage price volatility in the commodity markets, the Company may purchase inventory in advance or enter into exchange traded futures or options contracts. Despite these hedging activities, the Company may not be successful in limiting its exposure to market fluctuations in the cost of agricultural raw materials. Increases in the cost of corn, wheat flour and potato starch due to weather conditions or other factors beyond Penford’s control and that cannot be passed through to customers will reduce Penford’s future profitability. Increases in energy and chemical costs may reduce Penford’s profitability. Energy and chemicals comprised approximately 12% and 11%, respectively, of the cost of manufacturing the Company’s products in fiscal 2007. Penford uses natural gas extensively in its Industrial Ingredients business to dry starch products, and, to a lesser extent, in the other business segments. The Company uses chemicals in all of the businesses to modify starch for specific product applications and customer requirements. The prices of these inputs to the manufacturing process fluctuate based on anticipated changes in supply and demand, weather and the prices of alternative fuels, including petroleum. The Company may use short-term purchase contracts or exchange traded futures or option contracts to reduce the price volatility of natural gas; however, these strategies are not available for the chemicals the Company purchases. If the Company is unable to pass on increases in energy and chemical costs to its customers, margins and profitability would be adversely affected. The loss of a major customer could have an adverse effect on Penford’s results of operations. In fiscal 2006 and 2005, none of the Company’s customers constituted more than 10% of sales. However, in fiscal 2007, the Company’s largest customer, Domtar, Inc., represented approximately 12% of consolidated net sales and sales to the top ten customers represented 44% of consolidated net sales. Generally, the Company does not have multi-year sales agreements with its customers. Instead, many customers place orders on an as-needed basis and generally can change their suppliers without penalty. If Penford lost one or more major customers, or if one or more major customers significantly reduced its orders, sales and results of operations would be adversely affected. The Company is substantially dependent on its manufacturing facilities; any operational disruption could result in a reduction of the Company’s sales volumes and could cause it to incur substantial losses. Penford’s revenues are and will continue to be derived from the sale of starch-based ingredients that the Company’s manufactures at its facilities. The Company’s operations may be subject to significant interruption if any of its facilities experiences a major accident or is damaged by severe weather or other natural disasters. In addition, the Company’s operations may be subject to labor disruptions and unscheduled downtime, or other operational hazards inherent in the industry, such as equipment failures, fires, explosions, abnormal pressures, blowouts, pipeline ruptures, transportation accidents and natural disasters. Some of these operational hazards may cause personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment or environmental damage, and may result in suspension of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. The Company’s insurance may not be adequate to fully cover the potential operational hazards described above or that it will be able to renew this insurance on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The agreements governing the Company’s debt contain various covenants that limit its ability to take certain actions and also require the Company to meet financial maintenance tests, and Penford’s failure to comply with any of the debt covenants could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The agreements governing Penford’s outstanding debt contain a number of significant covenants that, among other things, limit its ability to: • incur additional debt or liens; 9 Table of Contents • consolidate or merge with any person or transfer or sell all or substantially all of its assets; • make investments or acquisitions; • pay dividends or make certain other restricted payments; • enter into transactions with affiliates; and • create dividend or other payment restrictions with respect to subsidiaries. In addition, the Company’s revolving credit facility requires it to comply with specific financial ratios and tests, under which it is required to achieve specific financial and operating results. Events beyond the Company’s control may affect its ability to comply with these provisions. A breach of any of these covenants would result in a default under the Company’s revolving credit facility. In the event of any default that is not cured or waived, the Company’s lenders could elect to declare all amounts borrowed under the revolving credit facility, together with accrued interest thereon, due and payable, which could permit acceleration of other debt. If any of the Company’s debt is accelerated, there is no assurance that the Company would have sufficient assets to repay that debt or that it would be able to refinance that debt on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Changes in interest rates may affect Penford’s profitability. Although the Company has fixed the interest rates on a significant portion of its outstanding debt through interest rate swaps, as of August 31, 2007, approximately $37.5 million of its outstanding debt, including amounts outstanding under the Australian grain inventory financing facility, was subject to variable interest rates which move in direct relation to the United States or Australian London InterBank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”), the Australian bank bill rate (“BBSY”), or the prime rate in the United States, depending on the selection of borrowing options. Any significant changes in these interest rates would materially affect the Company’s profitability by increasing or decreasing its borrowing costs. Unanticipated changes in tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect Penford’s profitability. The Company is subject to income taxes in the United States, Australia and New Zealand. The Company’s effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities or changes in tax laws. The carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the United States, is dependent on the Company’s ability to generate future taxable income in the United States. The amount of income taxes paid is subject to interpretation of applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions in which the Company operates. Although the Company believes it has complied with all applicable income tax laws, there is no assurance that a tax authority will not have a different interpretation of the law or that any additional taxes imposed as a result of tax audits will not have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. Fluctuations in the relative value of the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies may negatively affect Penford’s revenues and profitability. In the ordinary course of business, the Company is subject to risks associated with changing foreign exchange rates. The value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies has been generally in decline in recent years. In fiscal year 2007, approximately 29% of the Company’s revenue was denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The Company’s revenues and profitability may be adversely affected by fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies. The Company may not be able to implement ethanol production as planned or at all. Even if the Company successfully implements ethanol production, its ethanol facility may not be profitable. The Company’s ability to implement ethanol production as planned is subject to uncertainty. The Company has secured $45 million of financing for this project which it believes is adequate for the project’s completion; however, the Company could face financial risks if this amount of financing is not sufficient to complete the construction of 10 Table of Contents the ethanol facility. Penford may be adversely affected by environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and liabilities in implementing ethanol production, which could increase its costs. Changes in the markets for ethanol, including oversupply in ethanol capacity, and/or legislation and regulations could materially and adversely affect ethanol demand. There is no assurance that sufficient demand for ethanol will develop to permit profitable operation of the ethanol production facility. Penford’s results of operations could be adversely affected by litigation and other contingencies. The Company faces risks arising from litigation matters in which various factors or developments can lead to changes in current estimates of liabilities, such as final adverse judgments, significant settlements or changes in applicable law. A future adverse outcome, ruling or unfavorable development could result in future charges that could have a material effect on the Company’s results of operations. Penford has foreign operations, which exposes it to the risks of doing business abroad. Approximately 29% of the Company’s revenues are derived from its operations in Australia and New Zealand. These foreign operations subject the Company to a number of risks associated with conducting business outside the United States, including the following: • currency fluctuations; • transportation delays and interruptions; • political, social and economic instability and disruptions; • government embargoes or foreign trade restrictions; • the imposition of duties, tariffs and other trade barriers; • import and export controls; • labor unrest and changing regulatory environments; • limitations on the Company’s ability to enforce legal rights and remedies; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. Although the Company’s operations have not been materially affected by any such factors to date, no assurance can be given that its operations may not be adversely affected in the future. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on the Company’s operations in the future by reducing the demand for its products, decreasing the prices at which the Company can sell its products or otherwise having an adverse effect on its business, financial condition or results of operations. Penford depends on its senior management team; the loss of any member could adversely affect its operations. Penford’s success depends on the management and leadership skills of its senior management team. The loss of any of these individuals, particularly Thomas D. Malkoski, the Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer, or Steven O. Cordier, the Company’s Chief Financial Officer, or the Company’s inability to attract, retain and maintain additional personnel, could prevent it from fully implementing its business strategy. There is no assurance that it will be able to retain its existing senior management personnel or to attract additional qualified personnel when needed. Penford is subject to stringent environmental and health and safety laws, which may require it to incur substantial compliance and remediation costs, thereby reducing profits. Penford is subject to many federal, state, local and foreign environmental and health and safety laws and regulations, particularly with respect to the use, handling, treatment, storage, discharge and disposal of substances and hazardous wastes used or generated in its manufacturing processes. Compliance with these laws and regulations is a significant factor in the Company’s business. Penford has incurred and expects to continue to incur significant 11 Table of Contents expenditures to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations. The Company’s failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations and permit requirements could result in civil or criminal fines or penalties or enforcement actions, including regulatory or judicial orders enjoining or curtailing operations or requiring corrective measures, installation of pollution control equipment or remedial actions. The Company may be required to incur costs relating to the investigation or remediation of property, including property where it has disposed of its waste, and for addressing environmental conditions. Some environmental laws and regulations impose liability and responsibility on present and former owners, operators or users of facilities and sites for contamination at such facilities and sites without regard to causation or knowledge of contamination. Consequently, there is no assurance that existing or future circumstances, the development of new facts or the failure of third parties to address contamination at current or former facilities or properties will not require significant expenditures by the Company. The Company expects to continue to be subject to increasingly stringent environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. It is difficult to predict the future interpretation and development of environmental and health and safety laws and regulations or their impact on the Company’s future earnings and operations. The Company anticipates that compliance will continue to require increased capital expenditures and operating costs. Any increase in these costs, or unanticipated liabilities arising, for example, out of discovery of previously unknown conditions or more aggressive enforcement actions, could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, and there is no assurance that they will not have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Penford’s unionized workforce could cause interruptions in the Company’s provision of services. As of August 31, 2007, approximately 40% of the Company’s 357 North American employees, and 69% of the 239 employees of Penford Australia, were members of trade unions. Although the Company’s relations with unions are stable, there is no assurance that the Company will not experience work disruptions or stoppages in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations and adversely affect its relationships with its customers. For example, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004 and the first quarter of fiscal 2005, Penford experienced a union strike at its Cedar Rapids manufacturing facility. The Company incurred $4.2 million and $4.1 million in additional production costs for 2004 and 2005, respectively, in connection with the strike. Additionally, the Company’s non-union workforce could be disrupted by union organizing activities and similar actions. Lower investment performance by the Company’s pension plan assets will require it to increase its pension liability and expense, which may also lead to accelerated funding of the Company’s pension obligations and divert funds from other uses. Lower investment performance by the Company’s pension plan assets could increase its defined benefit pension plan obligations. The Company estimates that minimum funding requirements for its qualified defined benefit pension plans will be approximately $1.6 million in fiscal 2008. However, the Company cannot predict whether changing economic conditions or other factors will lead or require it to make contributions in excess of its current expectations, diverting funds it would otherwise apply to other uses. Additionally, there is no assurance that the Company will have the funds necessary to meet any minimum pension funding requirements. Risk Factors Relating to Penford’s Common Stock Penford’s stock price has fluctuated significantly; the trading price of its common stock may fluctuate significantly in the future. The trading price of the Company’s common stock has fluctuated significantly. In 2007, the stock price ranged from a low of $16.23 on January 5, 2007 to a high of $41.30 on October 11, 2007. The trading price of Penford’s common stock may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a number of factors, including: • actual and anticipated variations in the Company’s operating results; • general economic and market conditions, including changes in demand for the Company’s products; 12 Table of Contents • interest rates; • geopolitical conditions throughout the world; • perceptions of the strengths and weaknesses of the Company’s industries; • the Company’s ability to pay principal and interest on its debt when due; • developments in the Company’s relationships with its lenders, customers and/or suppliers; • announcements of alliances, mergers or other relationships by or between the Company’s competitors and/or its suppliers and customers; and • quarterly variations in the Company’s results of operations due to, among other things, seasonality in demand for products and fluctuations in the cost of raw materials The stock markets in general have experienced broad fluctuations that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of the Company’s common stock. Accordingly, Penford’s common stock may trade at prices significantly below an investor’s,cost and investors could lose all or part of their investment in the event that they choose to sell their shares. Provisions of Washington law and the shareholder rights plan could discourage or prevent a potential takeover. Washington law imposes restrictions on certain transactions between a corporation and certain significant shareholders. The Washington Business Corporation Act generally prohibits a “target corporation” from engaging in certain significant business transactions with an “acquiring person,” which is defined as a person or group of persons that beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting securities of the target corporation, for a period of five years after such acquisition, unless the transaction or acquisition of shares is approved by a majority of the members of the target corporation’s board of directors prior to the time of the acquisition. Such prohibited transactions include, among other things, (1) a merger or consolidation with, disposition of assets to, or issuance or redemption of stock to or from, the acquiring person; (2) a termination of 5% or more of the employees of the target corporation as a result of the acquiring person’s acquisition of 10% or more of the shares; and (3) allowing the acquiring person to receive any disproportionate benefit as a shareholder. After the five year period, a “significant business transaction” may occur if it complies with “fair price” provisions specified in the statute. A corporation may not “opt out” of this statute. In addition, Penford has adopted a shareholder rights plan, intended to discourage a potential acquisition of the Company that its board of directors believes is undesirable to the Company and its shareholders. The shareholder rights plan expires in June 2008 and the Company’s board of directors currently does not intend to renew the plan. The shareholder rights plan and the provisions under Washington law may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change of control in the ownership of Penford. 13 Table of Contents Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 