Item 1A: Risk Factors Risks Related to Penford’s Business The availability and cost of agricultural products Penford purchases are vulnerable to weather and other factors beyond its control. The Company’s ability to pass through cost increases for these products is limited by worldwide competition and other factors. In fiscal 2010, approximately 40% of Penford’s manufacturing costs were the costs of corn, potato starch and other agricultural raw materials. Weather conditions, plantings, government programs and policies, and energy costs and global supply, among other things, have historically caused volatility in the supply and prices of these agricultural products. Due to local and/or international competition, the Company may not be able to pass through the increases in the cost of agricultural raw materials to its customers. To manage price volatility in the commodity markets, the Company may purchase inventory in advance or enter into exchange traded futures or options contracts. Despite these hedging activities, the Company may not be successful in limiting its exposure to market fluctuations in the cost of agricultural raw materials. Increases in the cost of corn, potato starch and other agricultural raw materials due to weather conditions or other factors beyond Penford’s control and that cannot be passed through to customers will reduce Penford’s future profitability. Increases in energy and chemical costs may reduce Penford’s profitability. Energy and chemicals comprised approximately 12% and 11%, respectively, of the cost of manufacturing the Company’s products in fiscal 2010. Penford uses natural gas extensively in its Industrial Ingredients business to dry starch products, and, to a lesser extent, in the Food Ingredients business. The Company uses chemicals in all of the businesses to modify starch for specific product applications and customer requirements. The prices of these inputs to the manufacturing process fluctuate based on anticipated changes in supply and demand, weather and the prices of alternative fuels, including petroleum. The Company may use short-term purchase contracts or exchange traded futures or option contracts to reduce the price volatility of natural gas; however, these strategies are not available for the chemicals the Company purchases. If the Company is unable to pass on increases in energy and chemical costs to its customers, margins and profitability would be adversely affected. The loss of a major customer could have an adverse effect on Penford’s results of operations. The Company’s sales of ethanol to its sole ethanol customer, Eco-Energy, Inc., represented approximately 27%, 21% and 2% of the Company’s net sales for fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Eco-Energy, Inc. is a marketer and distributor of bio-fuels in the United States and Canada. The Company’s second largest customer, Domtar, Inc., represented approximately 8%, 11% and 15% of the Company’s net sales for fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Sales to the top ten customers represented 65%, 69% and 62% of net sales for fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Generally, the Company does not have multi-year sales agreements with its customers. Many customers place orders on an as-needed basis and generally can change their suppliers without penalty. If Penford lost one or more major customers, or if one or more major customers significantly reduced its orders, sales and results of operations would be adversely affected. 8 Table of Contents The Company is substantially dependent on its manufacturing facilities; any operational disruption could result in a reduction of the Company’s sales volumes and could cause it to incur substantial losses. Penford’s revenues are, and will continue to be, derived from the sale of starch-based ingredients and ethanol that the Company manufactures at its facilities. The Company’s operations may be subject to significant interruption if any of its facilities experiences a major accident or is damaged by severe weather or other natural disasters, as occurred as a result of the flood of the Cedar River at the Company’s Cedar Rapids, Iowa facility in fiscal 2008. In addition, the Company’s operations may be subject to labor disruptions and unscheduled downtime, or other operational hazards inherent in the industry, such as equipment failures, fires, explosions, abnormal pressures, blowouts, pipeline ruptures, transportation accidents and natural disasters. Some of these operational hazards may cause personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment or environmental damage, and may result in suspension of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. The Company’s insurance may not be adequate to fully cover the potential operational hazards described above or that it will be able to renew this insurance on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The agreements governing the Company’s debt contain various covenants that limit its ability to take certain actions and also require the Company to meet financial maintenance tests, and Penford’s failure to comply with any of the debt covenants could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The agreements governing Penford’s outstanding debt contain a number of significant covenants that, among other things, limit its ability to: • incur additional debt or liens; • consolidate or merge with any person or transfer or sell all or substantially all of its assets; • make investments or acquisitions; • pay dividends or make certain other restricted payments; • enter into transactions with affiliates; and • create dividend or other payment restrictions with respect to subsidiaries. In addition, the Company’s revolving credit facility requires it to comply with specific financial ratios and tests, under which it is required to achieve specific financial and operating results. Events beyond the Company’s control may affect its ability to comply with these provisions. A breach of any of these covenants would result in a default under the Company’s revolving credit facility. In the event of any default that is not cured or waived, the Company’s lenders could elect to declare all amounts borrowed under the revolving credit facility, together with accrued interest thereon, due and payable, which could permit acceleration of other debt. If any of the Company’s debt is accelerated, there is no assurance that the Company would have sufficient assets to repay that debt or that it would be able to refinance that debt on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Changes in interest rates may affect Penford’s profitability. As of August 31, 2010, approximately $18.9 million of its outstanding debt was subject to variable interest rates which move in direct relation to the London InterBank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”), or the prime rate in the United States, depending on the selection of borrowing options. Any significant changes in these interest rates would materially affect the Company’s profitability by increasing or decreasing its borrowing costs. Unanticipated changes in tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect Penford’s profitability. The Company is subject to income taxes in the federal and various state jurisdictions in the United States. The Company’s effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in tax jurisdictions with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities or changes in tax laws. The carrying value of deferred tax assets is dependent on the Company’s ability to generate future taxable income in the 9 Table of Contents United States. The amount of income taxes paid is subject to interpretation of applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions in which the Company operates. Although the Company believes it has complied with all applicable income tax laws, there is no assurance that a tax authority will not have a different interpretation of the law or that any additional taxes imposed as a result of tax audits will not have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. Pension expense and the funding of pension obligations are affected by factors outside the Company’s control, including the performance of plan assets, interest rates, actuarial data and experience, and changes in laws and regulations. The future funding obligations for the Company’s two U.S. defined benefit pension plans qualified with the Internal Revenue Service depend upon the level of benefits provided for by the plans, the future performance of assets set aside in trusts for these plans, the level of interest rates used to determine funding levels, actuarial data and experience and any changes in government laws and regulations. The pension plans hold a significant amount of equity and fixed income securities. When the values of these securities decline, pension expense can increase and materially affect the Company’s results. Decreases in interest rates that are not offset by contributions and asset returns could also increase the Company’s obligations under such plans. The Company is legally required to make contributions to the pension plans in the future, and those contributions could be material. The Company expects to contribute $2.3 million to its pension plans during fiscal 2011. The current capital and credit market conditions may adversely affect the Company’s access to capital, cost of capital and business operations. The general economic and capital market conditions in the United States and other parts of the world have deteriorated significantly and have adversely affected access to capital and increased the cost of capital. If these conditions continue or become worse, the Company’s future cost of debt and equity capital and its access to capital markets could be adversely affected. An inability to obtain adequate financing from debt and equity sources could force the Company to self-fund strategic initiatives or even forgo some opportunities, potentially harming its financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Economic conditions may impair the businesses of the Company’s customers and end user markets, which could adversely affect the Company’s business operations. As a result of the current economic downturn and macro-economic challenges currently affecting the economy of the United States and other parts of the world, the businesses of some of the Company’s customers may not be successful in generating sufficient revenues. Customers may choose to delay or postpone purchases from the Company until the economy and their businesses strengthen. The Company’s Industrial Ingredients business is dependent upon end markets for paper and ethanol in North America. Paper markets have been under competitive pressure from imports and over-capacity and may be further stressed by the continuing economic downturn. Ethanol markets have been under pressure from declining oil prices and increasing ethanol production capacity in the United States. Decisions by current or future customers to forego or defer purchases and/or customers’ inability to pay the Company for its products may adversely affect the Company’s earnings and cash flow. Penford depends on its senior management team; the loss of any member could adversely affect its operations. Penford’s success depends on the management and leadership skills of its senior management team. The loss of any of these individuals, particularly Thomas D. Malkoski, the Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer, or Steven O. Cordier, the Company’s Chief Financial Officer, or the Company’s inability to attract, retain and maintain additional personnel, could prevent it from fully implementing its business strategy. There is no assurance that it will be able to retain its existing senior management personnel or to attract additional qualified personnel when needed. 10 Table of Contents Penford is subject to stringent environmental and health and safety laws, which may require it to incur substantial compliance and remediation costs, thereby reducing profits. Penford is subject to many federal, state and local environmental and health and safety laws and regulations, particularly with respect to the use, handling, treatment, storage, discharge and disposal of substances and hazardous wastes used or generated in its manufacturing processes. Compliance with these laws and regulations is a significant factor in the Company’s business. Penford has incurred and expects to continue to incur expenditures to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations. The Company’s failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations and permit requirements could result in civil or criminal fines or penalties or enforcement actions, including regulatory or judicial orders enjoining or curtailing operations or requiring corrective measures, installation of pollution control equipment or remedial actions. The Company may be required to incur costs relating to the investigation or remediation of property, including property where it has disposed of its waste, and for addressing environmental conditions. Some environmental laws and regulations impose liability and responsibility on present and former owners, operators or users of facilities and sites for contamination at such facilities and sites without regard to causation or knowledge of contamination. Consequently, there is no assurance that existing or future circumstances, the development of new facts or the failure of third parties to address contamination at current or former facilities or properties will not require significant expenditures by the Company. The Company expects to continue to be subject to increasingly stringent environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. It is difficult to predict the future interpretation and development of environmental and health and safety laws and regulations or their impact on the Company’s future earnings and operations. The Company anticipates that compliance will continue to require increased capital expenditures and operating costs. Any increase in these costs, or unanticipated liabilities arising, for example, out of discovery of previously unknown conditions or more aggressive enforcement actions, could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, and there is no assurance that they will not have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Penford’s unionized workforce could cause interruptions in the Company’s provision of services. As of August 31, 2010, approximately 40% of the Company’s 330 employees were members of a trade union. Although the Company’s relations with the relevant union are stable and the Company’s labor contract does not expire until August 2012, there is no assurance that the Company will not experience work disruptions or stoppages in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations and adversely affect its relationships with its customers. Risk Factors Relating to Penford’s Common Stock Penford’s stock price has fluctuated significantly; the trading price of its common stock may fluctuate significantly in the future. The trading price of the Company’s common stock has fluctuated significantly. In fiscal 2010, the stock price ranged from a low of $4.83 on August 31, 2010 to a high of $12.15 on January 19, 2010. The trading price of Penford’s common stock may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a number of factors, including: • actual and anticipated variations in the Company’s operating results; • general economic and market conditions, including changes in demand for the Company’s products; • interest rates; • geopolitical conditions throughout the world; • perceptions of the strengths and weaknesses of the Company’s industries; • the Company’s ability to pay principal and interest on its debt when due; • developments in the Company’s relationships with its lenders, customers and/or suppliers; 11 Table of Contents • announcements of alliances, mergers or other relationships by or between the Company’s competitors and/or its suppliers and customers; and • quarterly variations in the Company’s results of operations due to, among other things, seasonality in demand for products and fluctuations in the cost of raw materials The stock markets in general have experienced broad fluctuations that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of the Company’s common stock. Accordingly, Penford’s common stock may trade at prices significantly below an investor’s cost and investors could lose all or part of their investment in the event that they choose to sell their shares. Provisions of Washington law could discourage or prevent a potential takeover. Washington law imposes restrictions on certain transactions between a corporation and certain significant shareholders. The Washington Business Corporation Act generally prohibits a “target corporation” from engaging in certain significant business transactions with an “acquiring person,” which is defined as a person or group of persons that beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting securities of the target corporation, for a period of five years after such acquisition, unless the transaction or acquisition of shares is approved by a majority of the members of the target corporation’s board of directors prior to the time of the acquisition. Such prohibited transactions include, among other things, (1) a merger or consolidation with, disposition of assets to, or issuance or redemption of stock to or from, the acquiring person; (2) a termination of 5% or more of the employees of the target corporation as a result of the acquiring person’s acquisition of 10% or more of the shares; and (3) allowing the acquiring person to receive any disproportionate benefit as a shareholder. After the five year period, a “significant business transaction” may occur if it complies with “fair price” provisions specified in the statute. A corporation may not “opt out” of this statute. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments None. 