Risk Factors Relating to Penford’s Common Stock Penford’s stock price has fluctuated significantly; the trading price of its common stock may fluctuate significantly in the future. The trading price of the Company’s common stock has fluctuated significantly. In fiscal 2008, the stock price ranged from a low of $11.81 on July 10, 2008 to a high of $41.30 on October 11, 2007. The trading price of Penford’s common stock may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a number of factors, including: • actual and anticipated variations in the Company’s operating results; • general economic and market conditions, including changes in demand for the Company’s products; • interest rates; • geopolitical conditions throughout the world; • perceptions of the strengths and weaknesses of the Company’s industries; • the Company’s ability to pay principal and interest on its debt when due; • developments in the Company’s relationships with its lenders, customers and/or suppliers; • announcements of alliances, mergers or other relationships by or between the Company’s competitors and/or its suppliers and customers; and • quarterly variations in the Company’s results of operations due to, among other things, seasonality in demand for products and fluctuations in the cost of raw materials The stock markets in general have experienced broad fluctuations that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of the Company’s common stock. Accordingly, Penford’s common stock may trade at prices significantly below an investor’s cost and investors could lose all or part of their investment in the event that they choose to sell their shares. Provisions of Washington law could discourage or prevent a potential takeover. Washington law imposes restrictions on certain transactions between a corporation and certain significant shareholders. The Washington Business Corporation Act generally prohibits a “target corporation” from engaging in certain significant business transactions with an “acquiring person,” which is defined as a person or group of persons that beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting securities of the target corporation, for a period of five years after such acquisition, unless the transaction or acquisition of shares is approved by a majority of the members of the target corporation’s board of directors prior to the time of the acquisition. Such prohibited transactions include, among other things, (1) a merger or consolidation with, disposition of assets to, or issuance or redemption of stock to or from, the acquiring person; (2) a termination of 5% or more of the employees of the target corporation 14 Table of Contents as a result of the acquiring person’s acquisition of 10% or more of the shares; and (3) allowing the acquiring person to receive any disproportionate benefit as a shareholder. After the five year period, a “significant business transaction” may occur if it complies with “fair price” provisions specified in the statute. A corporation may not “opt out” of this statute. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 