Item 1A: Risk Factors Increases in energy and chemical costs may reduce the Company’s profitability. Energy and chemicals comprised approximately 13% and 12%, respectively, of the cost of manufacturing the Company’s products in fiscal year 2006. Natural gas is used extensively in the Industrial Ingredients — North America business to dry starch products, and, to a lesser extent, in the Company’s other business segments. Chemicals are used in all of Penford’s businesses to modify starch for specific product applications and customer requirements. The prices of these inputs to the manufacturing process fluctuate based on anticipated changes in supply and demand, weather and the prices of alternative fuels, including petroleum. Penford may use short-term purchase contracts or exchange traded futures or option contracts to reduce the price volatility of natural gas; however, these strategies are not available for the chemicals the Company purchases. Penford may not be able to pass on increases in energy and chemical costs to its customers and margins and profitability would be adversely affected. The availability and cost of agricultural products Penford purchases are vulnerable to weather and other factors beyond its control. In fiscal 2006, approximately 27% of Penford’s manufacturing costs were the costs of agricultural raw materials, corn, wheat flour and maize. Weather conditions, plantings and global supply, among other things, have historically caused volatility in the supply and prices of these agricultural products. The Company may not be able to pass through the increases in the cost of agricultural raw materials to its customers. To manage price volatility in the commodity markets, the Company may purchase inventory in advance or enter into exchange traded futures or options contracts. Despite these hedging activities, Penford may not be successful in limiting its exposure to market fluctuations in the cost of agricultural raw materials. Increases in the cost of corn, wheat flour, maize and potato starch due to weather conditions or other factors beyond Penford’s control and that cannot be passed through to customers will reduce Penford’s future profitability. The loss of a major customer could have an adverse effect on Penford’s results of operations. None of the Company’s customers constituted 10% of sales in the last three years. However, in fiscal year 2006, sales to the top ten customers and sales to the largest customer represented 43% and 8%, respectively, of total consolidated net sales. Customers place orders on an as-needed basis and generally can change their suppliers without penalty. If the Company lost one or more of its major customers, or if one or more of its customers significantly reduced its orders, sales and results of operations would be adversely affected. 8 Table of Contents Changes in interest rates will affect Penford’s profitability. At August 31, 2006, $20.7 million of the Company’s outstanding debt, including amounts outstanding under the Australian grain inventory financing facility, was subject to variable interest rates which move in direct relation to the U.S. or Australian London InterBank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”), the Australian bank bill rate (“BBSY”), or the prime rate in the U.S., depending on the selection of borrowing options. Significant changes in these interest rates would materially affect Penford’s profitability. Unanticipated changes in tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect Penford’s profitability. Penford is subject to income taxes in the United States, Australia and New Zealand. The Company’s effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities or changes in tax laws. The carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the United States, is dependent on Penford’s ability to generate future taxable income in the United States. The amount of income taxes paid is subject to the Company’s interpretation of applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions in which Penford operates. The Company is subject to audits by tax authorities. While the Company believes it has complied with all applicable income tax laws, there can be no assurance that a tax authority will not have a different interpretation of the law or that any additional taxes imposed as a result of tax audits will not have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. Profitability is subject to risks associated with changes in foreign exchange currency rates. In the ordinary course of business, Penford is subject to risks associated with changing foreign exchange rates. In fiscal year 2006, approximately 30% of the Company’s revenue was denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Penford’s revenues and results of operations are affected by fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies. Provisions of Washington law could discourage or prevent a potential takeover. Washington law imposes restrictions on certain transactions between a corporation and certain significant shareholders. The Washington Business Corporation Act generally prohibits a “target corporation” from engaging in certain significant business transactions with an “acquiring person,” which is defined as a person or group of persons that beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting securities of the target corporation, for a period of five years after such acquisition, unless the transaction or acquisition of shares is approved by a majority of the members of the target corporation’s board of directors prior to the time of the acquisition. Such prohibited transactions include, among other things, (1) a merger or consolidation with, disposition of assets to, or issuance or redemption of stock to or from, the acquiring person; (2) a termination of 5% or more of the employees of the target corporation as a result of the acquiring person’s acquisition of 10% or more of the shares; and (3) allowing the acquiring person to receive any disproportionate benefit as a shareholder. After the five year period, a “significant business transaction” may occur if it complies with “fair price” provisions specified in the statute. A corporation may not “opt out” of this statute. This provision may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change of control in the ownership of the Company. The Company may not be able to implement ethanol production as planned or at all. Penford’s ability to implement ethanol production as planned is subject to uncertainty. The Company recently announced this project and a considerable amount of work is only in preliminary stages. As of August 31, 2006, the Company had not yet secured all necessary permits and had not entered into all necessary engineering, construction and procurement contracts. The Company has secured $45 million of financing for this project which it believes is adequate for completion; however, the Company could face financial risks if this amount of financing is not sufficient to complete the construction of the ethanol facility. The Company may be adversely affected by environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and liabilities in implementing ethanol production. Changes in the markets for ethanol and/or legislation and regulations could materially and adversely affect ethanol demand. 9 Table of Contents Other uncertainties The Company’s consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These accounting principles require management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions to fairly present results of operations and financial position. Management believes that its estimates, judgments and assumptions are reasonable based upon information available at the time this report was prepared. To the extent there are material differences between estimates, judgments and assumptions and actual results, the financial statements will be affected. See “Critical Accounting Policies” in Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 