ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below constitute the material risks pertaining to our business. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occurs, our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. In such cases, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. 6 Table of Contents There is substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern, and our independent registered public accounting firm’s report includes an explanatory paragraph to that effect. Based on our current operational expectations, the limited availability anticipated under our credit agreement (notwithstanding the April 2014 amendment thereto described in Note 8), and the uncertainty as to the amount and timing of the payments that we will be required to make to U.S. Customs and/or other governmental authorities in respect of pending Customs duty matters, to satisfy any obligations resulting from the arbitration with Mr. Bivona, and/or to the CPSC in respect of its pending investigation, in each case when such matters are finalized, all as discussed in this Risk Factors section, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Note 21 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements herein, there is substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern, and our independent registered public accounting firm has included in their audit opinion for the year ended December 31, 2013 an explanatory paragraph to that effect. However, our financial statements have been prepared assuming we will continue to operate as a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business (all outstanding debt under our credit agreement is currently classified as short-term debt). Management’s analysis of these matters is described in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the caption “Capital Resources, Liquidity Assessment and Ability to Continue as a Going Concern”. LaJobi’s issues with U.S. Customs, the USAO and the SEC, as well as the arbitration with Mr. Bivona and the pending investigation of the CPSC have continued over a period of several years. The Company believes that the lack of finality, and consequent uncertainty stemming from these issues, has (and continues to) hinder the Company in its efforts to raise additional capital. Disclosures questioning a company’s ability to continue as a going concern are generally viewed unfavorably by analysts and investors. If we become unable to continue as a going concern, we will likely have to liquidate our assets. The covenants under our credit agreement may limit our ability to dispose of material assets or operations, and even if permitted, the values we receive for our assets in liquidation or dissolution could be significantly lower than the values reflected in our financial statements. In addition, such measures may not be available or successful. As a result, you may lose your investment. The reaction of investors to the inclusion of a going concern uncertainty explanatory paragraph by our auditors and our potential inability to continue as a going concern may materially adversely affect our share price and our ability to raise new capital, enter into strategic alliances, and/or maintain compliance with the financial or other covenants under our credit agreement. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient liquidity to satisfy our cash obligations when required. Our principal sources of liquidity are cash flows from operations, cash and cash equivalents, and availability under our credit agreement. At December 31, 2013 our revolving loan availability was $4.9 million, and such availability is currently expected to remain very tight for the remainder of 2014. Without a sufficient increase in availability under our credit agreement (notwithstanding the April 2014 amendment thereto described in Note 8) or an increase in liquidity resulting from operations or as a result of an action or transaction arising out of our review of strategic and financing alternatives described below, there can be no assurance that we will be able to satisfy our ordinary course cash requirements for the one-year period subsequent to the issuance of our audited financial statements for 2013, or any payments that we will be required to make to U.S. Customs and/or other governmental authorities in respect of pending Customs duty matters, to satisfy any obligations resulting from the arbitration with Mr. Bivona, and/or to the CPSC in respect of its pending investigation, in each case when such matters are finalized, creating uncertainty about our ability to continue as a going concern. LaJobi’s issues with U.S. Customs, the USAO and the SEC, as well as the arbitration with Mr. Bivona and the pending investigation of the CPSC have continued over a period of several years. The Company believes that the lack of finality, and consequent uncertainty stemming from these issues, has (and continues to) hinder the Company in its efforts to raise additional capital. See Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the caption “Capital Resources, Liquidity Assessment and Ability to Continue as a Going Concern” for a discussion of the impact of potential payment obligations on our compliance with our credit agreement, liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. More generally, if actual events, circumstances, outcomes and amounts differ from judgments, assumptions and estimates made or used in determining the amount of certain assets (including the amount of recoverability of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, valuation allowances for receivables, inventories and deferred income tax assets), liabilities (including accruals for income taxes and liabilities) and/or other items reflected in our consolidated financial statements, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. 7 Table of Contents Our going concern uncertainty may have an adverse effect on our customer, licensor and supplier relationships. Our relationships with our customers, licensors and suppliers are predicated on the belief that we will continue to operate as a going concern. Certain of our customers may cease purchasing products from us, or take other actions detrimental to the Company, if there is uncertainty regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. This would have an adverse effect on our ability to grow or maintain our revenues. Certain licensors may seek to terminate the licenses granted to us and prospective licensors may be unwilling to enter into new licenses with us. Current and future suppliers may be less likely to grant us credit, resulting in a negative impact on our working capital and cash flows. While management is exploring alternatives and implementing initiatives intended to enable it to continue to operate as a going concern (described in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the caption “Capital Resources, Liquidity Assessment and Ability to Continue as a Going Concern”), in the event such adverse consequences should occur, we cannot provide assurance that we will successfully execute any of these initiatives, and there may be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our decision to explore strategic alternatives may not result in an action or transaction or may cause us to recognize a loss, and we cannot predict whether our plans to generate liquidity will be successful. As we have previously disclosed, our Board has authorized us to identify and evaluate a broad range of strategic and financing alternatives aimed at enhancing shareholder value, including addressing underperforming product lines, exploring strategic alliances, the sale or merger of the Company or one or more of its subsidiaries, restructuring the Company’s current debt, recapitalizing, or other possible transactions, alone or in combination. During the course of the review process, we will continue our efforts to execute key strategic and operational initiatives previously identified as critical to improving the Company’s overall business and liquidity. The achievement of these objectives and outcome of these initiatives are subject to risks and uncertainties with respect to market conditions and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from our plans. In addition, there can be no assurance that transactions to monetize assets or other actions to generate liquidity will become available on terms that are acceptable to us, on intended timetables or at all. LaJobi’s issues with U.S. Customs, the USAO and the SEC, as well as the arbitration with Mr. Bivona and the pending investigation of the CPSC have continued over a period of several years. The Company believes that the lack of finality, and consequent uncertainty stemming from these issues, has (and continues to) hinder the Company in its efforts to raise additional capital. As a result, we cannot provide assurance that the process will result in an action or transaction or, if it does, that it would occur within any specified period of time or under what terms. Further, our evaluation of potential actions and transactions may cause us to incur substantial costs and divert a significant amount of resources and attention that would otherwise be directed toward our operations and implementation of our business strategy, all of which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our net sales and profitability depend on our ability to continue to conceive, design and market products that appeal to consumers. The introduction of new products is critical in our industry and to our growth strategy. A significant percentage of our product line is replaced each year with new products. Our business depends on our ability to continue to conceive, design and market new products and upon continuing market acceptance of our product offerings. Rapidly changing consumer preferences and trends make it difficult to predict how long consumer demand for our existing products will continue or which new products will be successful. Our current products may not continue to be popular or new products that we introduce may not achieve adequate consumer acceptance for us to recover development, manufacturing, marketing and other costs. A decline in consumer demand for our products, our failure to develop new products on a timely basis in anticipation of changing consumer preferences or the failure of our new products to achieve and sustain consumer acceptance could reduce our net sales and profitability. In addition, changes in customer preferences leave us vulnerable to an increased risk of inventory obsolescence. Thus, our ability to manage our inventories properly is an important factor in our operations. Inventory shortages can adversely affect the timing of shipments to customers and diminish sales and brand loyalty. Conversely, excess inventories can result in lower gross margins due to the excessive discounts and markdowns that might be necessary to reduce inventory levels. Our inability to effectively manage our inventory could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 8 Table of Contents Our business is dependent on several large customers. The continued success of our infant and juvenile businesses depends on our ability to continue to sell our products to several large mass market retailers. In particular, Toys “R” Us, Inc. and Babies “R” Us, Inc. (considered together), Wal-Mart and Target accounted for approximately 34.8%, 19.4% and 7.2%, respectively, of our consolidated gross sales for the 2013 calendar year. While the consolidation of our customer base may provide certain benefits to us, such as potentially more efficient product distribution and other decreased costs of sales and distribution, we typically do not have long-term contracts with our customers and our agreements with these customers do not require them to purchase any specific number or amount of our products. As a result, agreements with respect to pricing, returns, cooperative advertising or special promotions or allowances, among other things, are subject to periodic negotiation with each customer. No assurance can be given that these or other customers will continue to do business with us or that they will maintain their historical levels of business, and the loss of one or more of the foregoing customers or one or more of our other large customers, or a decrease in historical levels of business of any such customers, could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. See Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the Company’s customers who account for a significant percentage of the Company’s gross sales (and changes in the volume of business conducted with such customers) over the last three years. In addition, our success depends upon the continuing willingness of large retailers to purchase and provide shelf space for our products. Our access to shelf space at retailers for our products may be reduced by store closings, consolidation among these retailers, competition from other products or stricter requirements for infant and juvenile products by retailers that we may not be able to meet. An adverse change in our relationship with, or the financial viability of, one or more of our large customers could reduce our net sales and profitability. We are currently party to litigation and other matters that have been and continue to be costly to defend and distracting to management, and if decided against us, are likely to have a material adverse effect on our business. In connection with certain U.S. Customs matters described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we are subject to a “Focused Assessment” by U.S. Customs, and are party to certain related investigations by the United States Attorney’s Office for the District of New Jersey (the “USAO”) and the SEC. Although we have made submissions to U.S. Customs with respect to anticipated anti-dumping and other customs duties, including proposed settlement amounts and payment terms, U.S. Customs has not yet responded to such submissions. We are currently seeking to negotiate a global resolution of these issues with the USAO and U.S. Customs, but there can be no assurance that these efforts will be successful, that our determination of the amount of such duties owed, or our proposals with respect to settlement amounts and/or the timing of payments will be accepted, nor can there be any assurance that we will not be subject to additional fines, penalties or other measures from U.S. Customs, the USAO and/or the SEC. We are currently unable to predict the duration or resources required in connection with any such global resolution. An unfavorable disposition of such matters is likely to result in a default under our credit agreement, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, result in the need for additional debt or equity financing, and/or cause us to become bankrupt or insolvent (see below). In addition, there can be no assurance that we will not be subject to adverse publicity, as well as other sanctions or other contingent liabilities or adverse customer, licensor or market reactions in connection with the resolution of these matters, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. In addition, and related to such U.S. Customs (and USAO) matters, we are party to an arbitration proceeding with Lawrence Bivona, with respect to which the arbitration panel released an Interim Award on March 6, 2014. Based on its finding that Mr. Bivona breached his fiduciary duty and his employment agreement on and after August 24, 2010, the arbitration panel awarded damages to us, including damages for the additional duties assessed for transactions on and after that date, and in addition, awarded us $2.85 million for reasonable legal expenses and other costs (collectively, the “KB Award Amounts”).The arbitration panel found in favor of Mr. Bivona with respect to: (i) his right to receive a portion of specified earnout consideration, in an amount to be determined at a later date, but for which we have accrued an aggregate of $11.7 million ($10.6 million with respect to such earnout and the remainder for a related finder’s fee); (ii) his claim for reasonable attorney’s fees and expenses for our failure to pay such earnout(in an amount to be determined at a subsequent proceeding); and (iii) his claim that we breached his employment agreement by terminating him improperly for “cause” (awarding him $655,000), but stated that any recovery on these claims must be offset by the KB Award Amounts. Because the amount of anti-dumping duties and/or penalties owed by us has not been finally determined, the arbitration panel determined that it would not be possible to ascertain the amount of the earnout due to Mr. Bivona, or the precise amount of damages due to us. 9 Table of Contents With respect to the investigation by the staff of the CPSC into whether LaJobi timely complied (prior to 2010) with certain reporting requirements described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (with respect to which we have accrued approximately $1.0 million), there can be no assurance that we will not be subject to adverse publicity, fines or penalties (in excess of amounts accrued with respect to the CPSC investigation), as well as other sanctions or other contingent liabilities or adverse customer, licensor or market reactions in connection with their resolution, which could harm our business and financial condition, and in addition, we are currently unable to predict the duration or resources required in connection therewith. There can be no assurance that we will be in compliance with the financial covenants or will be able to borrow under our credit agreement at the time U.S. Customs, the USAO and/or the SEC make their final determinations; the Interim Award is finalized, and/or the CPSC makes its final determination, or whether any payments required pursuant to any of the foregoing will result in a default or inability to borrow under such credit agreement, and accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient liquidity to satisfy any such payment obligations when required. In the event of a default under our credit agreement, the lenders may, among other things, accelerate the loans, declare the commitments thereunder to be terminated, refuse to permit further draw-downs, seize collateral, or take other actions of secured creditors. If the lenders accelerate the loans or terminate the commitments, or in the event that we do not have sufficient liquidity to make any such payments when required, we may be forced to dispose of material assets or operations or seek to obtain equity capital, and/or need to restructure or refinance our indebtedness. Such alternative measures may not be available or successful. Also, the covenants under our credit agreement may limit our ability to dispose of material assets or operations or to restructure or refinance our indebtedness. Even if we are able to restructure or refinance our indebtedness, the economic terms may not be favorable to us. In addition, an unfavorable disposition in the matters described above, or an event of default under our credit agreement could result in a default under certain license agreements that we maintain. Any of the foregoing is likely to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and cause us to become bankrupt or insolvent. LaJobi’s issues with U.S. Customs, the USAO and the SEC, as well as the arbitration with Mr. Bivona and the pending investigation of the CPSC have continued over a period of several years. The Company believes that the lack of finality, and consequent uncertainty stemming from these issues, has (and continues to) hinder the Company in its efforts to raise additional capital. See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” and Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a detailed description of these matters, and other pending litigation, Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of our current credit facility, including a discussion of conditions precedent to the payment of any Customs duties or LaJobi earnout payments, and the financial covenants applicable to the Company, and Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources” for a discussion of the potential impact of payment obligations with respect to the matters described in this risk factor on our compliance with our credit agreement and our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. Also see “Inability to maintain compliance with the bank covenants” and “There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient liquidity to satisfy our cash obligations when required”. The Company is also party to other litigations, including a wages and hours putative class action. Additional litigation may be initiated against us based on the alleged items at issue in such complaints. We cannot predict the final outcome of such lawsuits or the likelihood that further proceedings will be instituted against us. Accordingly, the cost of defending against such lawsuits, other lawsuits pending against the Company, or any future lawsuits or proceedings may be high and, in any event, these legal proceedings may result in the diversion of our management’s time and attention away from our business. In the event that there is an adverse ruling in any legal proceeding, we may be required to make payments to third parties that could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial condition and results of operations, all as described above. Inability to maintain compliance with the bank covenants. The Company was not in compliance with the financial covenant pertaining to Availability under its credit agreement for the month ended February 28, 2014, the financial covenants pertaining to Availability and gross sales for the month ended March 31, 2014, or the covenant requiring the delivery of annual financial statements within 90 days of the end of 2013, accompanied by a report and opinion of its auditors without a going concern or other qualification or exception. In addition, trading of the Company’s common stock on the New York Stock Exchange was suspended as of March 31, 2014. The Company also anticipated that it may not be in compliance with both financial covenants for the month ended April 30, 2014. All of the foregoing, in addition to the Going Concern Events (as defined below), constituted (or may constitute) defaults or events of default under the Credit Agreement (collectively, the “Existing Events of Default”). The Company also anticipated that it would determine and disclose in its financial statements for 2013 that there is substantial doubt about its ability to continue as a going concern, and that a related explanatory paragraph would be included in the report and opinion of the Company’s auditors for such year, and that it would consider the existence of material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in its internal control over financial reporting for the year ended December 31, 2013 (the “Going Concern Events”). The Going Concern Events may also violate specified provisions of the Credit Agreement, and result in a failure of the conditions to lending thereunder. 10 Table of Contents As a result, the Company, the Agent and the Required Lenders under the Credit Agreement executed a waiver and amendment thereto (“Amendment No. 4”) as of April 8, 2014. Amendment No. 4 waived the Existing Events of Default, and any event of default or failure of any condition to lending arising from the violation of specified provisions of the credit agreement resulting from the Going Concern Events or the failure of the Borrowers to make a payment under a material license and receipt of a related notice of breach (which breach has since been cured). In addition, among other things, compliance with each of the Availability and gross sales financial covenants was suspended until the month ending August 31, 2014, the availability block was reduced by $0.5 million (i.e., $3.5 million, instead of $4.0 million, will be subtracted from amounts otherwise available for borrowing to compute availability) for a period of four months, and the permitted transit period for in-transit inventory was increased (thereby increasing the amount of eligible inventory used to calculate availability) for a period of four months. In consideration of the foregoing, among other things, the Company is subject to a new monthly Collateral Coverage Ratio (the value, as defined in Amendment No. 4, of eligible inventory, intellectual property and trade receivables to total outstandings under the credit agreement) of 1.0:1.0, interest rate margins applicable to both revolver tranches under the credit agreement were increased by 2.0% per annum, and the Agent was granted specified Kid Brands board of directors observation and participation rights (in a non-voting capacity). If the Company is unable to remain in compliance with its credit agreement, as so amended, its lenders would be entitled to, among other things, accelerate the loans under the credit agreement, declare the commitments thereunder to be terminated and/or refuse to permit further draw-downs on the revolver, seize collateral or take other actions of secured creditors. If the loans are accelerated or commitments terminated, we are likely to face substantial liquidity problems and be forced to dispose of material assets or operations, seek to obtain equity capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. Such alternative measures may not be available or successful (see “Our decision to explore strategic alternatives may not result in an action or transaction or may cause us to recognize a loss, and we cannot predict whether our plans to generate liquidity will be successful”). Also, our bank covenants may limit our ability to dispose of material assets or operations or to restructure or refinance our indebtedness. Even if we are able to restructure or refinance our indebtedness, the economic terms may not be favorable to us. In addition, an event of default under our credit agreement could result in a cross-default under certain license agreements that we maintain. Any of the foregoing is likely to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations, and cause us to become bankrupt or insolvent. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under the sections captioned “Liquidity and Capital Resources” and “Summary of Credit Agreement”, as well as Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Our debt covenants may affect our liquidity or limit our ability to complete acquisitions, incur debt, make investments, sell assets, merge or complete other significant transactions. Our current credit agreement includes provisions that place limitations on a number of our activities, including our ability to: incur additional debt; create liens on our assets or make guarantees; make certain investments or loans; pay dividends; repurchase our common stock; dispose of or sell assets; or enter into acquisitions, mergers or similar transactions. These covenants could restrict our ability to pursue opportunities to expand our business operations. In addition, substantially all cash, other than cash set aside for the benefit of employees (and certain other exceptions), is swept and applied to repayment of amounts outstanding under our credit agreement. Material Weaknesses in the Company’s Internal Controls The Company’s CEO and CFO have concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as a result of material weaknesses identified in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013. See Part II, Item 9A “Controls and Procedures” for a description of the material weaknesses and the remediation plan with respect thereto. The Company is taking steps to address the identified material weaknesses; however, there is no guarantee that these remediation steps will be sufficient to remediate the identified material weaknesses and control deficiencies or to prevent additional material weaknesses or control deficiencies. In addition, the costs of remediating such deficiencies in the Company’s internal controls may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. If the Company is unable to substantially improve the Company’s internal controls with respect to the identified material weaknesses, the Company’s ability to report its financial results and related disclosures on a timely and accurate basis will be adversely affected. If the Company’s financial statements and related disclosures are not accurate, investors may not have a complete understanding of the Company’s operations. If the Company’s financial statements are not timely and accurate, the Company could be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities including the SEC. If any of these events occur, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations, and could affect the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. 11 Table of Contents Regulatory compliance, as well as product liability, product recalls and other claims relating to the use of our products could increase our costs. We face product liability risks relating to the use of our products. We also must comply with a variety of product safety and product testing regulations. In particular, our products are subject to, among other statutes and regulations, the Consumer Product Safety Act, the Federal Hazardous Substances Act, or the FHSA, and the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act, or the CPSIA, which empowers the Consumer Product Safety Commission, or the CPSC, to take action against hazards presented by consumer products, including adjudication and promulgation of regulations and uniform safety standards. With expanded authority under the CPSIA, the CPSC has adopted and continues to adopt new regulations for safety and products testing that apply to substantially all of our products. These new regulations have increased and are expected to further significantly increase the regulatory requirements governing the manufacture and sale of infant and juvenile products and the potential penalties for noncompliance with applicable regulations. The CPSC has the authority to exclude from the market and recall certain consumer products that are found to be potentially hazardous. Consumer product safety laws also exist in some states and cities within the United States and in Canada, Australia and Europe, as well as certain other countries. While we take the steps we believe are necessary to comply with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance in the future, or that rapidly changing safety standards will not render unsaleable products that complied with previously-applicable safety standards. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, or if we face product liability claims, we may be subject to damage awards or settlement costs that exceed any available insurance coverage, we may incur significant costs in complying with recall requirements, and our financial results could be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, concerns about potential liability or potential future changes in product safety regulations may lead us to recall voluntarily or otherwise discontinue selling selected products which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Recalls, post-manufacture repairs of our products, or product liability claims could also harm our reputation, increase our costs or reduce our net sales. Governments and regulatory agencies in the markets where we manufacture and sell products may enact additional regulations relating to product safety and consumer protection in the future or take other actions that may adversely impact infant and juvenile products, including the categories of products that we produce and sell. In addition, one or more of our customers might require changes or impose their own standards for our products, such as the non-use of certain materials, or choose not to sell certain of our products. Complying with existing or any such additional regulations or requirements could impose increased costs on our business. Similarly, increased penalties for non-compliance could subject us to greater expense in the event any of our products were found to not comply with such regulations. Furthermore, substantially all of our licenses give the licensor the right to terminate the license agreement if any products marketed under the license are subject to a product liability claim, recall or similar violations of product safety regulations or if we breach covenants relating to the safety of the products or their compliance with product safety regulations. A termination of a license could adversely affect our net sales. Even if a product liability claim is without merit, the claim could harm our reputation and divert management’s attention and resources from our business. In addition, by letter dated July 26, 2012, the staff (the “CPSC Staff”) of the CPSC informed us that it has investigated whether LaJobi timely complied with certain reporting requirements with respect to various models of drop-side and wooden-slat cribs distributed by LaJobi during the period commencing in 1999 through 2010, which cribs were recalled voluntarily by LaJobi during 2009 and 2010. The letter states that, unless LaJobi is able to resolve the matter with the CPSC Staff, the CPSC Staff intends to recommend to the CPSC that it seek the imposition of a substantial civil penalty for the alleged violations. The Company is currently working with the CPSC Staff regarding a possible resolution to the issue, and has accrued approximately $1.0 million with respect to such issues. It is possible, however, that no settlement will be achieved, or that any settlement or other disposition of the matter will involve substantially higher amounts than the amount currently accrued with respect to this matter or be on terms less favorable to the Company. The Company intends to continue to work closely with the CPSC Staff in an effort to resolve this issue. Given the current status of this matter, however, it is not yet possible to determine what, if any, actions will be formally taken by the CPSC, or the amount of any civil penalty that may be assessed. Based on currently available information, the Company cannot estimate the amount of the loss (or range of loss) in connection with this matter. In addition, as this matter is ongoing, the Company is currently unable to predict its duration, resources required or outcome, or the impact it may have on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. An adverse decision in this matter that requires any significant payment by us is likely to result in a default under our credit agreement and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See Item 3, Legal Proceedings – Consumer Product Safety Commission Staff Investigation. 12 Table of Contents We are no longer listed on the New York Stock Exchange; our common stock is traded in the Over-The-Counter (OTC) market. The suspension of the trading of our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”) and the movement of trading of our common stock to OTC markets could materially and adversely affect our business and the price of our common stock. Securities traded in the OTC market generally have significantly less liquidity than securities traded on a national securities exchange, through factors such as a reduction in the number of investors that will consider investing in the securities, the number of market makers in the securities, reduction in securities analyst and news media coverage and lower market prices than might otherwise be obtained. Any of these occurrences could negatively affect the market price of our common stock or cause the market price to become more volatile. Our delisting from the NYSE could also negatively impact, among other things, our relationships with shareholders, businesses and lenders, our access to debt and equity financing, and our ability to attract and retain personnel by means of equity compensation. In addition, we may experience other adverse effects, including, without limitation, the loss of confidence in us by current and prospective suppliers, customers, employees and others with whom we have or may seek to initiate business relationships. Any of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our common stock may become more thinly traded following its delisting from the NYSE. Our common stock may become more thinly traded following its delisting from the NYSE. The trading volume may be limited by the fact that many major institutional investment funds, including mutual funds, as well as individual investors follow a policy of not investing in unlisted stocks, and certain major brokerage firms restrict their brokers from recommending unlisted stocks because they are considered speculative and volatile. The OTC market is less regulated than the major exchanges. As a result, the number of persons interested in purchasing our common stock at or near ask prices at any given time may be relatively small or non-existent. There may be periods of several days or more when trading activity in our shares is low and a shareholder may be unable to sell his shares at an acceptable price, or at all. We cannot give shareholders any assurance that a broader or more active public trading market for our common stock will develop or be sustained, or that current trading levels will be sustained. As a result, the quoted price for our common stock may not necessarily be a reliable indicator of its fair market value. Further, we are not able to compel continued quotations on the OTC market. If we cease to be quoted, holders would find it more difficult to dispose of our common stock or to obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our common stock and as a result, the market value would likely decline. Increased use of and competition for licenses could increase our licensing costs or limit our ability to market products. We market a significant portion of our products through licenses with other parties, and we have increased our use of licenses in recent periods. Sales of licensed products represented 57% and 54% of our sales in 2013 and 2012, respectively. These licenses are generally limited in scope and duration and generally authorize the sale of specific licensed products on an exclusive or nonexclusive basis. Our license agreements often require us to make minimum guaranteed royalty payments that may exceed the amount we are able to generate from actual sales of the licensed products. In addition, our royalty expenses increase as we expand our offerings of licensed products. If we are unable to pass such increases along to our customers or otherwise reduce our cost of goods, our gross profit margins would decrease, which would cause our profitability to decline. Any termination of or failure to renew our significant licenses, or inability to develop and enter into new licenses, could limit our ability to market our licensed products or develop new products, and could materially reduce our net sales and profitability. Competition for licenses could require us to pay licensors higher royalties and higher minimum guaranteed payments in order to obtain or retain attractive licenses, which could increase our expenses. In addition, licenses granted to other parties, whether or not exclusive, could limit our ability to market products, including products we currently market, which could cause our net sales and profitability to decline. Gross margin could be adversely affected by several factors. Gross margin was adversely affected in 2013 and may be adversely affected in the future by increases in vendor costs (including as a result of increases in the cost of raw materials, labor or other costs or fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates), excess inventory, obsolescence charges, changes in shipment volume or in-bound freight rates, price competition and changes in channels of distribution or in the mix of products sold (our increased use of licenses increases royalty expense, and consequently, cost of goods sold). For example, increased costs in the PRC, primarily for labor, raw materials, and the impact of certain tax laws, as well as the appreciation of the Chinese Yuan against the U.S. dollar, have at times (and may again in future periods), negatively impacted our gross margins. In addition, pressure from major retailers, primarily as a result of continued challenging economic conditions, to offer additional mark-downs and other credits or price concessions to clear existing inventory and secure new product placements, or to accept additional returns, have and may continue to negatively impact our margins. Economic conditions, such as rising fuel prices and currency exchange fluctuations, may also adversely impact our margins. 13 Table of Contents Our Kids Line and CoCaLo businesses use significant quantities of cotton, either in the form of cotton fabric or cotton-polyester fabric. Cotton is subject to ongoing price fluctuations because it is an agricultural product impacted by changing weather patterns, disease and other factors, such as supply and demand considerations, both domestically and internationally. In addition, increased oil prices affect key components of the raw material prices in many of our products. Significant increases in the prices of cotton or oil have and could adversely affect our gross margins and our operations. In addition, charges pertaining to anti-dumping duties that we anticipate will be owed by our LaJobi subsidiary to U.S. Customs, and charges pertaining to customs duties we anticipate will be owed by our Kids Line and CoCaLo subsidiaries to U.S. Customs have affected gross margins and results of operations for specified periods. Any amounts owned in excess of the accruals recorded will adversely affect our gross margin and net income for the period(s) in which such amounts are recorded and could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. See Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the LaJobi anti-dumping duty matters and the Kids Line/CoCaLo customs duty matters, including the possibility of the imposition of additional fines, penalties or other measures from U.S. Customs or other governmental authorities, and settlement submission made to U.S. Customs in connection therewith. We may not achieve all of the expected benefits from our cost saving initiatives. We have implemented a number of cost saving initiatives, including: (i) the Consolidation Plan described in “Liquidity and Capital Resources” below, including the transition to a single third-party logistics company, the related closure (upon expiration of the applicable lease agreements) of our distribution centers in Cranbury, New Jersey, Southgate, California (closed), and Kentwood, Michigan, and the termination of certain existing third party logistics agreements; (ii) the consolidation of our executive offices with those of our LaJobi subsidiary in a new space in Rutherford, New Jersey; (iii) the implementation of a consolidated information technology system; (iv) the consolidation of our company-wide websites; (v) continued reductions in discretionary spending and employee headcount reductions; and (vi) and consolidation of certain back-office finance functions. In addition, we will continue to evaluate additional measures to improve the efficiency and performance of our operations. We have made certain assumptions in estimating the anticipated impact of these cost saving initiatives. These assumptions may turn out to be incorrect due to a variety of factors. In addition, our ability to realize the expected benefits from these initiatives is subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. Some of our cost saving measures may not have the impact on our profitability that we currently project, we may not be able to sustain the savings, and/or we cannot assure that additional costs will not offset any reductions achieved. If we are unsuccessful in implementing these initiatives or if we do not achieve our expected results, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly. Our quarterly net revenue and operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and are likely to continue to vary from quarter to quarter. Variability in the nature of our operating results may be attributed to the factors identified throughout this “Risk Factors” section, many of which may be outside our control, including: • Fluctuations in demand for our products and services; • Reduced visibility into our customers’ spending plans and associated revenue; • The level of price and competition in our product markets; • Our pricing practices, including our use of available information to maximize pricing potential; • The impact of the uncertain economic environment on our customers, consumers, and suppliers; • The overall movement toward industry consolidations among our customers and competitors; • Announcements and introductions of new products by our competitors; • Deferrals of customer orders in anticipation of new products or product enhancements (introduced by us or our competitors); • Striking an appropriate balance between short-term execution and long-term innovation; • Our ability to develop, introduce, and market new products and enhancements and market acceptance of such new products and enhancements; and • Our levels of operating expenses. A high percentage of our operating expenses are relatively fixed and are based on our forecast of future net revenue. If we were to experience an unexpected reduction in net revenue in a quarter, we would likely be unable to adjust our short-term expenditures significantly. If this were to occur, our operating results for that fiscal quarter would be adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and investors in our common stock may experience substantial losses. The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and may continue to be volatile in the future. The trading price of our common stock could decline or fluctuate in response to a variety of factors, including: • the delisting of our common stock from the NYSE (as described above) • fluctuation in our quarterly operating results (see “Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly); • changes in financial estimates of our net sales and operating results; • the timing of announcements by us concerning financial performance, significant product developments, acquisitions, or other matters; • the timing of announcements by our competitors concerning significant product developments, acquisitions, financial performance or other matters; • other economic or external factors; • our failure to meet the performance estimates of securities analysts or investors; • buy/sell recommendations by securities analysts; • substantial sales of our common stock or the registration of substantial shares for sale; or • general stock market conditions. You may be unable to sell your stock at or above your purchase price. Increases in interest rates may increase our interest expense and adversely affect our profitability and cash flows. Loans under our credit agreement currently bear interest at a specified 30-day LIBOR rate (subject to a minimum LIBOR floor of 0.50%), plus a margin of 6.0% per annum with respect to the Tranche A Revolver and a margin of 13.25% per annum with respect to the Tranche A-1 Revolver (each as defined in Note 8 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), reflecting a 2% per annum increase on each such tranche as of April 1, 2014. At December 31, 2013, the applicable interest rates were 4.5% for loans under the Tranche A Revolver and 11.75% for loans under the Tranche A-1 Revolver. This increase in the interest rates under our credit agreement will increase our interest expense, and harm our profitability and cash flow. Competition in our markets could reduce our net sales and profitability. We operate in highly competitive markets. Certain of our competitors have greater brand recognition and greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have. In addition, we may face competition from new participants in our markets because the infant and juvenile product industry has limited barriers to entry. Many of our principal customers are large mass merchandisers. The rapid growth of these large mass merchandisers, together with changes in consumer shopping patterns, have contributed to the formation of dominant multi-category retailers that have strong negotiating power with suppliers. Current trends among retailers include fostering high levels of competition among suppliers, demanding innovative new products and requiring suppliers to maintain or reduce product prices and deliver products with shorter lead times. Other trends are for retailers to import products directly from factory sources and to source and sell products under their own private label brands that compete with our products. The combination of these market influences has created an intensely competitive environment in which our principal customers continuously evaluate which product suppliers to use, resulting in downward pricing pressures and the need for consumer-meaningful brands, the ongoing introduction and commercialization of innovative new products, continuing improvements in customer service, and the maintenance of strong relationships with large, high-volume purchasers. We also face the risk of changes in the strategy or structure of our major retailer customers, such as overall store and inventory reductions and retailer consolidation. The resulting risks include possible loss of sales, reduced profitability and limited ability to recover cost increases through price increases. 15 Table of Contents We also experience price competition for our products, competition for shelf space at retailers and competition for licenses, all of which may increase in the future. If we cannot compete successfully in the future, our net sales and profitability will likely decline. To compete successfully, we must develop and maintain consumer-meaningful brands. Our ability to compete successfully also depends increasingly on our ability to develop and maintain consumer-meaningful brands so that our retailer customers will need our products to meet consumer demand. The development and maintenance of such brands requires significant investment in brand building and marketing initiatives, although any such investment may not deliver the anticipated results. In addition, the development of consumer-meaningful brands may require a greater reliance on the manufacture of licensed products, which in turn increases our costs. See “Increased use of and competition for licenses could increase our licensing costs or limit our ability to market products” below. If we lose key personnel we may not be able to achieve our objectives. We are dependent on the continued efforts of various members of senior management, as well as senior executives of several of our subsidiaries. If for any reason, these or other key members of management do not continue to be active in management, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Moreover, the loss of key executives may jeopardize relationships with existing customers, which could cause a decline in the sales of the Company’s products and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to attract and retain senior executives or other personnel necessary for the continued success of our business. If additional intangible assets become impaired we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. We test goodwill and our other intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis or on an interim basis if an event occurs that might reduce the fair value of the asset below its carrying value. We conduct testing for impairment during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. As part of our 2013 annual intangible asset impairment testing, we tested the non-amortizing intangible trade names recorded on our balance sheet as of December 31, 2013. In this analysis, the Company used a five-year projection period, which has been its prior practice, and projected the long-term growth rate of each of its four business units, as well as the assumed royalty rate that could be obtained by each such business unit by licensing out each intangible trade name. For the year-end 2013 testing, the Company kept its long-term growth rate at 2.5% for all of its business units, and used assumed royalty rates of 3.0%, 4.5%, 2.0% and 5.0% for Kids Line, Sassy, LaJobi and CoCaLo, respectively. For 2012, the Company used assumed royalty rates of 3.0%, 3.5%, 2.0% and 5.5% for Kids Line, Sassy, LaJobi and CoCaLo, respectively. The assumed royalty rate increased with respect to Sassy from the 2012 rate of 3.5%, as a result of projected increased profitability at this business unit. The assumed royalty rate decreased with respect to CoCaLo from the 2012 rate of 5.5%, as a result of decreased profitability at this business unit in 2013. The Company also slightly increased the discount rate to help mitigate risks inherent in any projections. As the carrying value of the Kids Line, LaJobi, and CoCaLo trade names exceeded their respective fair values due to revised future cash flow projections resulting from meaningfully lower sales in 2013, the Company recorded an impairment with respect thereto of $2.0 million, $1.8 million, and $1.3 million, respectively, for the three months ended December 31, 2013. The Company also recorded an impairment of approximately $4.0 million to the LaJobi trade name in the third quarter of 2013, for an aggregate impairment of $5.8 million to the LaJobi trade name for the year ended December 31, 2013. As the fair value of the Sassy trade name exceeded its carrying value, no impairments to this intangible asset were recorded for the year ended December 31, 2013. No impairments were recorded with respect to intangible assets with definite lives in the fourth quarter of 2013. However, the fair value of the Kokopax trade name and customer relationships were determined to be lower than their respective carrying values due to revised undiscounted future cash flow projections resulting from lower than anticipated sales. This resulted in an approximate $0.2 million impairment (representing a full impairment of such intangibles), which was recorded in cost of sales in the third quarter of 2013. 16 Table of Contents See Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We will continue to evaluate the recoverability of the carrying amount of our intangible assets on an ongoing basis, and we may incur additional impairment charges, which could be substantial and could adversely affect our financial results. Impairment assessments inherently involve judgment as to assumptions about expected future cash flows and the impact of market conditions on those assumptions. Future events and changing market conditions may impact our assumptions as to prices, costs, holding periods or other factors that may result in changes in our estimates of future cash flows. Factors that might reduce the fair value of an intangible asset below its carrying value include reduced future cash flow estimates and slower growth rates in our industry. We may not be able to collect outstanding accounts receivable from our major retail customers. Certain of our retail customers purchase large quantities of our products on credit, which may cause a concentration of accounts receivable among some of our largest customers. Our profitability may be harmed if one or more of our largest customers were unable or unwilling to pay these accounts receivable when due or demand credits or other concessions for products they are unable to sell or for other reasons. We rely on foreign suppliers, primarily in the PRC, to manufacture our products, which subjects us to numerous international business risks that could increase our costs or disrupt the supply of our products. All of our products are manufactured by unaffiliated companies, most of which are in Eastern Asia, principally in the PRC. Approximately 73% of our dollar volume of purchases for our operations in 2013 were attributable to manufacturers in the PRC. The supplier accounting for the greatest dollar volume of purchases for our operations accounted for approximately 12% and the five largest suppliers accounted for approximately 41% in the aggregate during 2013. While we believe that there are many other manufacturing sources available for our product lines, difficulties encountered by one or several of our larger suppliers such as a fire, accident, natural disaster or an outbreak of illness (e.g., H1N1, SARS, avian or other flu) at one or more of their facilities, could halt or disrupt production at the affected facilities, delay the completion of orders, cause the cancellation of orders, delay the introduction of new products or cause us to miss a selling season applicable to some of our products. In addition, our international operations subject us to certain other risks (some of which are discussed elsewhere in this risk factors section and below), including: • economic and political instability; • restrictive actions by foreign governments; • changing international political relations; • labor availability and cost; • changes in laws, including tax or labor laws, or changes in regulations, treaties and policies; • changes in shipping costs and availability of sufficient cargo capacity; • changes in the availability and cost of raw materials; • greater difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights and weaker laws protecting intellectual property rights; • changes in import duties or import or export restrictions (including changes that could be imposed retroactively); • delays in shipping of product and unloading of product through ports, as well as timely rail/truck delivery to our warehouses and/or a customer’s warehouse; • complications in complying with the laws and policies of the United States affecting the importation of goods, including duties, quotas and taxes (See “Gross margin could be adversely affected by several factors” above); • complications in complying with trade and foreign tax laws, and other laws of applicable foreign jurisdictions; • the effects of terrorist activity, armed conflict and epidemics. 17 Table of Contents Any of these risks could disrupt the supply of our products or increase our expenses. The costs of compliance with trade and foreign tax laws may increase our expenses and actual or alleged violations of such laws could result in enforcement actions or financial penalties that could result in substantial costs. In addition, the introduction or expansion of certain social programs in the PRC or otherwise will likely increase the cost of doing business for certain of our manufacturers, which would likely increase our manufacturing costs. With most of our manufacturers located in Eastern Asia, we must commit to production in advance of customer orders. If we fail to forecast customer or consumer demand accurately, we may encounter difficulties in filling customer orders on a timely basis or in liquidating excess inventories. This may signal a trend of higher ocean freight transportation prices in coming periods. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Historically, labor in the PRC has been readily available at relatively low cost as compared to labor costs in North America. The PRC has experienced rapid social, political and economic change in recent years. There is no assurance labor will continue to be available in the PRC at costs consistent with historical levels or that changes in labor or other laws will not be enacted which would have a material adverse effect on product costs in the PRC. If our suppliers suffer labor shortages, this may result in future supply delays and disruptions and drive a substantial increase in labor costs. The state of the economy may impact our business. Our business and results of operations are affected by international, national and regional economic conditions. The United States and many other international economies experienced a major recession in recent periods, with continuing effects for our industry. The end-users of our products are individual consumers. A hesitant recovery in the U.S economy, high unemployment, volatile capital markets, depressed housing prices and tight consumer lending practices have resulted in considerable negative pressure on consumer spending and consumer confidence, which we believe has resulted in reduced demand for our products. In the event that current economic conditions worsen, current and potential consumers of our products may be inclined to delay their purchases, and further tightening of credit markets may restrict our customers’ (both direct and indirect) ability and willingness to make purchases. In addition, continuing adverse global economic conditions in our markets could result in increased price competition for our products, increased risk of excess and obsolete inventories, increased risk in the collectability of accounts receivable from our direct customers, increased risk in potential reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable, delays in signing or failing to sign direct customer contracts or signing customer agreements at reduced purchase levels, and limitations in the capital resources available to us and others with whom we conduct business. Any of the foregoing effects could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition and could adversely affect our stock price. Further potential disruptions in the credit markets may adversely affect the availability and cost of short-term funds for liquidity requirements and our ability to meet long-term commitments, which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We rely on the banking and credit markets to meet our financial commitments and short-term liquidity needs. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets, as were experienced during 2008 and much of 2009, could adversely affect our ability to draw on our bank revolving credit facility. Our access to funds under our credit facility is dependent on the ability of our senior lenders to meet their funding commitments. They may not be able to meet their funding commitments to us if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests from us and other borrowers within a short period of time. Longer term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives, or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to liquidity needed for our business. Any disruption could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. Such measures could include deferring capital expenditures, and reducing or eliminating discretionary uses of cash. 18 Table of Contents Our operations outside the United States may be adversely affected by the operation of laws in those jurisdictions. Our operations in non-U.S. jurisdictions are in many cases subject to the laws of the jurisdictions in which they operate rather than United States law. Laws in some jurisdictions differ in significant respects from those in the United States, and these differences can affect our ability to react to changes in our business and our rights or ability to enforce rights or conduct our business may be different than would be expected under United States law. Moreover, enforcement of laws in some overseas jurisdictions can be inconsistent and unpredictable, which can affect both our ability to enforce our rights and to undertake activities that we believe are beneficial to our business. As a result, our ability to generate revenue and our expenses in non-United States jurisdictions may differ from what would be expected if United States law governed these operations. We may have difficulty establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls in the PRC and other Asian countries. The PRC and certain other Asian jurisdictions have historically had fewer or less developed management and financial reporting concepts and practices, as well as modern banking, computer, and other control systems. We may experience difficulty in hiring and/or retaining a sufficient number of qualified individuals in such jurisdictions. As a result, we may experience difficulty in establishing management, legal, and financial controls, collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account, and corporate records and instituting business practices that meet business standards such as those in the United States. We may be unable to recover all or any portion of amounts owed to us by TRC as a result of the filing by TRC and its domestic subsidiaries of a voluntary petition for bankruptcy protection under the United States Bankruptcy Code (the “Code”) and the execution of a Settlement Agreement in connection therewith. On April 21, 2011, TRC, the acquirer of our former gift business, and TRC’s domestic subsidiaries, filed a voluntary petition under Chapter 7 of the Code in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of New Jersey. As a subordinated lien holder with respect to a note payable to KID from TRC in the original principal amount of $19.0 million, KID may be able to recover a portion of amounts owed thereunder from TRC’s estate to the extent assets remain available for such payment under the Code after payment in full of TRC’s senior lender. We may experience significant delays in obtaining any recovery of amounts owed to us as a secured creditor of TRC, however, and will likely obtain only limited recovery, if any recovery at all. See Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the Settlement Agreement entered into by KID and the TRC debtors. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could increase our expenses. Our net sales are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars, except for a small amount of net sales denominated in Australian dollars and Euros. Our purchases of finished goods from Eastern Asian manufacturers are denominated in U.S. dollars. Expenses for these manufacturers are denominated in Chinese Yuan or other Eastern Asian currencies. As a result, any material increase in the value of the Yuan (or such other currencies) relative to the U.S. or Australian dollars would increase the prices at which we purchase finished goods and therefore could adversely affect our profitability. We are also subject to exchange rate risk relating to transfers of funds denominated in Australian dollars or Euros from our foreign subsidiaries to the United States. Trademark infringement or other intellectual property claims relating to our products could increase our costs. We have from time to time received claims of alleged infringement of intellectual property relating to certain of our products, and we may face similar claims in the future. The defense of intellectual property litigation can be both costly and disruptive of the time and resources of our management, even if the claim is without merit. We also may be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs to resolve intellectual property litigation. In addition, these claims could materially harm our brand name, reputation and operations. If our products are copied or “knocked-off,” our sales of these products may be materially reduced and our profitability may be negatively affected. Occasionally in the infant and juvenile industry, successful products are “knocked-off” or copied by competitors. While we strive to protect our intellectual property, we cannot guarantee that knock-offs will not occur or that they will not have a significant effect on our business. The costs incurred in protecting our intellectual property rights could be significant, and there is no assurance that we will be able to successfully protect our rights (see preceding risk factor). 19 Table of Contents New regulations related to conflict minerals may force us to incur additional expenses, may make our supply chain more complex and may result in damage to our relationships with customers. On August 22, 2012, under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, or the Dodd-Frank Act, the SEC adopted new requirements for companies that manufacture or contract to manufacture products that contain certain minerals and metals, known as conflict minerals. Some of these conflict minerals are commonly used in many products. These requirements generally require companies to investigate, disclose and report annually whether or not such metals, if used in the manufacture of the Company’s products, originated from the Democratic Republic of Congo or adjoining countries. The implementation of these new requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of minerals used in the manufacture of certain of our products. In addition, we may incur additional costs to comply with the disclosure requirements, including costs related to determining the source of any of the relevant minerals and metals used in our products. Since our supply chain is complex, we may not be able to ascertain the origins for these minerals and metals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement, which may harm our reputation. We may also face difficulties in satisfying customers who may require that our products be certified as conflict mineral free, which could harm our relationships with these customers and lead to a loss of revenue. These new requirements could limit the pool of suppliers that can provide conflict-free minerals, and we may be unable to obtain conflict-free minerals at competitive prices, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our manufacturing operations and our profitability. Disruptions in our current information technology systems or difficulties in implementing our new information technology system could harm our business. System failure or malfunctioning in our information technology systems may result in disruption of operations and the inability to process transactions and could adversely affect our financial results. In addition, in 2013, we completed the implementation of a consolidated information technology system for the Company, which we believe provides greater efficiencies and greater reporting capabilities than those provided by the previous separate systems in place across our individual infant and juvenile companies. Our business may be subject to transitional difficulties with respect to this new system. These difficulties may include disruption of our operations, loss of data, and the diversion of our management and key employees’ attention away from other business matters. The difficulties associated with any such implementation, and our failure to realize the anticipated benefits from the implementation, could harm our business, results of operations and cash flows. Use of social media may adversely impact our reputation or subject us to fines or other penalties. There has been a substantial increase in the use of social media platforms, including blogs, social media websites, and other forms of internet-based communications, which allow individuals access to a broad audience of consumers and other interested persons. Negative commentary regarding us or the products we sell may be posted on social media platforms and similar devices at any time and may be adverse to our reputation or business. Customers value readily available information and often act on such information without further investigation and without regard to its accuracy. The harm may be immediate without affording us an opportunity for redress or correction. We also use social media platforms as marketing tools. As laws and regulations rapidly evolve to govern the use of these platforms and devices, the failure by us, our employees or third parties acting at our direction to abide by applicable laws and regulations in the use of these platforms and devices could adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations, or subject us to fines or other penalties. Our hosted software and web-based services and web site may be subject to intentional disruption. Our hosted software and web-based services and web site may be subject to intentional disruption. Although we believe we have sufficient controls in place to prevent intentional disruptions, such as software viruses specifically designed to impede the performance of our software and web-based services, we may be affected by such efforts in the future. Further, despite the implementation of security measures, this infrastructure or other systems that we interface with, including the Internet and related systems, may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, hackers, improper employee or contractor access, programming errors, attacks by third parties or similar disruptive problems, resulting in the potential misappropriation of our proprietary information or interruptions of our services. Any compromise of our security, whether as a result of our own systems or systems that they interface with, could substantially disrupt our operations, harm our reputation and reduce demand for our services. Unauthorized disclosure of confidential information provided to us by our customers or third parties, whether through breach of our secure network by an unauthorized party, employee theft or misuse, or otherwise, could harm our business. The difficulty of securely transmitting confidential information has been a significant issue when engaging in sensitive communications over the Internet. Our business relies on using the Internet to transmit confidential information. We believe that any well-publicized compromise of Internet security may deter companies from using the Internet for these purposes. Our services present the potential for embezzlement, identity theft, or other similar illegal behavior by our employees or subcontractors with respect to third parties. If there was a disclosure of confidential information, or if a third party were to gain unauthorized access to the confidential information we possess, our operations could be seriously disrupted, our reputation could be harmed and we could be subject to claims pursuant to our agreements with our customers or other liabilities. In addition, if this were to occur, we could be perceived to have facilitated or participated in illegal misappropriation of funds, documents, or data and therefore be subject to civil or criminal liability or regulatory action. A claim that is brought against us that is uninsured or under-insured could harm our business, financial conditions and results of operations. Even unsuccessful claims could result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources. 20 Table of Contents Changes in our effective tax rate or changes in tax laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our future effective tax rate and the amount of our provision for income taxes may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: • adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; • increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes; • changes in available tax credits; • changes in share-based compensation expense; • changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; • changes in accounting standards or tax laws and regulations, or interpretations thereof; • the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; • the resolution of issues arising from uncertain positions and tax audits with various tax authorities; and • penalties and/or interest expense that we may be required to recognize on liabilities associated with uncertain tax positions. We are subject to taxation in various jurisdictions around the world. In preparing our financial statements, we calculate our effective income tax rate based on current tax laws and regulations and the estimated taxable income within each of these jurisdictions. Our effective income tax rate, however, may be higher due to numerous factors, including those enumerated above. A significantly higher effective income tax rate could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and liquidity. Officials in some of the jurisdictions in which we do business, including the United States, have proposed, or announced that they are reviewing tax increases and other revenue raising laws and regulations. Any resulting changes in tax laws or regulations could impose new restrictions, costs or prohibitions on our current practices and reduce our net income and adversely affect our cash flows. Increased costs associated with corporate governance compliance may affect our results of operations and financial condition, and may make it more difficult to attract and retain officers and directors. The Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 has required changes in some of our corporate governance and securities disclosure and compliance practices, and requires ongoing review of our internal control procedures. These developments have increased our legal compliance and financial reporting costs, and to the extent that we identify areas of our disclosures controls and procedures and/or internal controls requiring improvement (such as the material weaknesses in internal controls identified as of December 31, 2013 and discussed in Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures – Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting” included herein), we may have to incur additional costs and diversion of management’s time and attention. Any such action could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 21 Table of Contents A limited number of our shareholders can exert significant influence over us. As reported in a Schedule 13D filed with SEC, various investment funds and accounts managed by Prentice Capital Management, LP (“Prentice”) beneficially own approximately 19.9% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Prentice currently has the right to nominate two members of our Board of Directors. Michael Zimmerman, who may deemed to be the beneficial owner of shares beneficially owned by Prentice, also owns, directly or indirectly, an additional 0.3% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. This share ownership permits Prentice (and Mr. Zimmerman) and other large shareholders to exert significant influence over the outcome of shareholder votes, including votes concerning the election of directors, by-law amendments, possible mergers, corporate control contests and other significant corporate transactions. We do not anticipate paying regular dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, so any short-term return on your investment will depend on the market price of our common stock. The covenants in our credit agreement prohibit us from paying cash dividends to our shareholders. No assurance, therefore, may be given that there will be any future dividends declared. Various restrictions in our charter documents, policies, New Jersey law and our credit agreement could prevent or delay a change in control of us which is not supported by our board of directors. We are subject to a number of provisions in our charter documents, policies, New Jersey law and our credit agreement that may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or change of control that a shareholder may consider favorable. These anti-takeover provisions include: • advance notice procedures for nominations of candidates for election as directors, set forth in the Kid Brands, Inc. Criteria and Procedures with Respect to Selection and Evaluation of Directors and Communications with the Board of Directors (available on the Company’s website located at www.kidbrands.com under the heading “Investor Relations”) and for shareholder proposals to be considered at shareholders’ meetings (set forth in the Company’s Proxy Statement for its most recent Annual Meeting of Shareholders); • a provision in our bylaws that specifies that special meetings of the shareholders may be called by resolution of the Board or by the chairman of the Board or the president and shall be called by the president or secretary upon the written request (stating the purpose or purposes of the meeting) of a majority of the Board or of the holders of 51% of the outstanding shares entitled to vote; • the absence of cumulative voting in the election of directors; • covenants in our credit agreement restricting mergers, asset sales and similar transactions and a provision in our credit agreement that triggers an event of default upon certain acquisitions by a person or group of persons with beneficial ownership of a majority of our outstanding common stock; and • the New Jersey Shareholders’ Protection Act. The New Jersey Shareholders’ Protection Act, N.J.S.A. 14A:10A-1 et seq. (“NJSPA”), as it pertains to us, prohibits us, subject to limited exceptions, from entering into a “business combination” with any beneficial owner of 10% or more of our voting stock for a period of five years after such shareholder acquires 10% or more of our voting stock (an “interested shareholder”), unless the transaction is approved by our board of directors before such interested shareholder acquires 10% or more of our voting stock. After the expiration of the five-year period, we may only enter into a business combination with an interested shareholder if one of the following conditions is satisfied: (1) the business combination is approved by our board of directors before the interested shareholder’s stock acquisition date, (2) the business combination is approved by the holders of two-thirds of our voting stock excluding shares of our voting stock owned by such interested shareholder, or (3) the interested shareholder pays at least a specified minimum formula price set forth in the NJSPA to ensure that the other shareholders receive at least the highest price per share paid by such interested shareholder and, subject to certain exceptions, the interested shareholder does not acquire additional shares after becoming an interested shareholder. 22 Table of Contents A “business combination” includes the following transactions between a corporation or a subsidiary and an interested shareholder (or affiliates of such shareholder): (1) the merger or consolidation of the corporation with the interested shareholder or any corporation that after the merger or consolidation would be an affiliate or associate of the interested shareholder; (2) any sale, lease, exchange, mortgage, pledge, transfer or other disposition to or with the interested shareholder, which has an aggregate market value equal to 10% or more of the aggregate market value of all of the assets or of the outstanding stock, or 10% or more of the income of the corporation or its subsidiaries; (3) the issuance or transfer to the interested shareholder of any stock of the corporation having an aggregate market value equal to or greater than 5% of the corporation’s outstanding stock; (4) the adoption of a plan or proposal for the liquidation or dissolution of the corporation proposed by the interested shareholder; (5) any reclassification of securities proposed by the interested shareholder that has the effect, directly or indirectly, of increasing any class or series of stock that is owned by the interested shareholder; and (6) the receipt by the interested shareholder of any loans or other financial assistance from the corporation. Product returns by consumers to our larger customers in excess of anticipated amounts could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and/or results of operations. To cover our exposure to product returns for defective products, we establish reserves based on historical experience. However, we cannot be assured that our reserves will be sufficient to cover future product returns. Consumer returns to our large customers for defective products in excess of our reserves could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and/or results of operations. If we fail to successfully adapt our websites to customer requirements or emerging industry standards, our financial results may be materially and adversely affected. To remain competitive, we will have to continue to enhance and improve the responsiveness, functionality and features of our website. We are currently implementing a new consolidated Company-wide website. The development of website technology entails significant technical and business risks. There can be no assurance that we will be able to adapt our new website to customer requirements or emerging industry standards. If we are unable to adapt in a cost-effective and timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, whether for technical, legal, financial or other reasons, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The occurrence of unusually adverse weather conditions (whether or not caused by climate change or natural disasters), could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. Adverse weather conditions or natural disasters may impact our operations and financial performance. To the extent these events result in the closure of one or more of our facilities or our corporate headquarters, or impact one or more of our key suppliers or service providers, our operations and financial performance could be materially adversely affected through an inability to make deliveries to our customers and through lost sales. In addition, these events could result in disruption to our information systems. These events also can have indirect consequences such as increases in the costs of insurance if they result in significant loss of property or other insurable damage. Terrorist attacks and threats may disrupt our operations and negatively impact our revenues, costs and stock price. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 in the U.S., the U.S. response to those attacks and the resulting decline in consumer confidence had a substantial adverse effect on the U.S. economy. Any similar future events may disrupt our operations directly or indirectly by affecting the operations of our customers. In addition, these events have had and may continue to have an adverse impact on the U.S. economy in general and on consumer confidence and spending in particular, which could harm our revenues. Any new terrorist events or threats could have a negative effect on the U.S. and world financial markets generally, which could reduce the price of our common stock and may limit the capital resources available to us and others with whom we conduct business. If any of these events occur, they could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and could result in increased volatility in the market price of our common stock. 23 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 