ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below constitute the material risks pertaining to our business. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such cases, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Our net sales and profitability depend on our ability to continue to conceive, design and market products that appeal to consumers. The introduction of new products is critical in our industry and to our growth strategy. A significant percentage of our product line is replaced each year with new products. Our business depends on our ability to continue to conceive, design and market new products and upon continuing market acceptance of our product offerings. Rapidly changing consumer preferences and trends make it difficult to predict how long consumer demand for our existing products will continue or which new products will be successful. Our current products may not continue to be popular or new products that we introduce may not achieve adequate consumer acceptance for us to recover development, manufacturing, marketing and other costs. A decline in consumer demand for our products, our failure to develop new products on a timely basis in anticipation of changing consumer preferences or the failure of our new products to achieve and sustain consumer acceptance could reduce our net sales and profitability. In addition, changes in customer preferences leave us vulnerable to an increased risk of inventory obsolescence. Thus, our ability to manage our inventories properly is an important factor in our operations. Inventory shortages can adversely affect the timing of shipments to customers and diminish sales and brand loyalty. Conversely, excess inventories can result in lower gross margins due to the excessive discounts and markdowns that might be necessary to reduce inventory levels. Our inability to effectively manage our inventory could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Gross margin could be adversely affected by several factors. Gross margin may be adversely affected in the future by increases in vendor costs (including as a result of increases in the cost of raw materials or fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates), excess inventory, obsolescence charges, changes in shipment volume, price competition and changes in channels of distribution or in the mix of products sold. For example, increased costs in the PRC, primarily for labor, raw materials and the impact of certain tax laws, as well as the appreciation of the Chinese Yuan against the U.S. dollar, have at times negatively impacted our gross margins. In addition, increased pressure from major retailers, primarily as a result of prevailing economic conditions, to offer additional mark-downs and other credits or price concessions to clear existing inventory and secure new product placements, may also negatively impact our margins. Economic conditions, such as rising fuel prices and currency exchange fluctuations, may also adversely impact our margins. In addition, our Kids Line and CoCaLo businesses use significant quantities of cotton, either in the form of cotton fabric or cotton-polyester fabric. Cotton is subject to ongoing price fluctuations because it is an agricultural product impacted by changing weather patterns, disease and other factors, such as supply and demand considerations, both domestically and internationally. In addition, increased oil prices affect key components of the raw material prices in many of our products. Significant increases in the prices of cotton or oil could adversely affect our gross margins and our operations. 9 Table of Contents The state of the economy may impact our business. Economic conditions have deteriorated significantly in many of the countries and regions in which we do business and may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. Global economic conditions have been challenged by slowing growth and the sub-prime debt devaluation crisis, causing worldwide liquidity and credit concerns. Continuing adverse global economic conditions in our markets would likely negatively impact our business, which could result in: • Reduced demand for our products; • Increased price competition for our products; • Increased risk of excess and obsolete inventories; • Limitations in the capital resources available to us and others with whom we conduct business; • Increased risk in the collectability of accounts receivable from our customers; • Increased risk of potential reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable; • Higher operating costs as a percentage of revenues; and • Delays in signing or failing to sign customer contracts or signing customer agreements at reduced purchase levels. In addition, our operations and performance depend significantly on levels of consumer spending, which have deteriorated significantly in many countries and regions, including without limitation the United States, and may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. For example, some of the factors that could influence the levels of consumer spending include consumer confidence, increases in fuel and other energy costs, conditions in the residential real estate and mortgage markets, stock market conditions, labor and healthcare costs, access to credit and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. These potential effects of the current global financial crisis are difficult to forecast and mitigate. As a consequence, our operating results for any particular period may be difficult to predict, and, therefore, prior results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. Any of the foregoing effects could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition and could adversely affect our stock price. If the national and world-wide financial crisis intensifies, further potential disruptions in the credit markets may adversely affect the availability and cost of short-term funds for liquidity requirements and our ability to meet long-term commitments, which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. If sufficient internal funds are not available from our operations, we may be required to further rely on the banking and credit markets to meet our financial commitments and short-term liquidity needs. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets, as have been experienced during 2008 and 2009, could adversely affect our ability to draw on our bank revolving credit facility. Our access to funds under our credit facility is dependent on the ability of the banks that are parties to such facility to meet their funding commitments. Those banks may not be able to meet their funding commitments to us if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests from us and other borrowers within a short period of time. Longer term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives, or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to liquidity needed for our business. Any disruption could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs 10 Table of Contents can be arranged. Such measures could include deferring capital expenditures, and reducing or eliminating discretionary uses of cash. Competition in our markets could reduce our net sales and profitability. We operate in highly competitive markets. Certain of our competitors have greater brand recognition and greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have. In addition, we may face competition from new participants in our markets because the infant and juvenile product industry has limited barriers to entry. Many of our principal customers are large mass merchandisers. The rapid growth of these large mass merchandisers, together with changes in consumer shopping patterns, have contributed to the formation of dominant multi-category retailers that have strong negotiating power with suppliers. Current trends among retailers include fostering high levels of competition among suppliers, demanding innovative new products and requiring suppliers to maintain or reduce product prices and deliver products with shorter lead times. Other trends are for retailers to import products directly from factory sources and to source and sell products under their own private label brands that compete with our products. The combination of these market influences has created an intensely competitive environment in which our principal customers continuously evaluate which product suppliers to use, resulting in downward pricing pressures and the need for consumer-meaningful brands, the ongoing introduction and commercialization of innovative new products, continuing improvements in customer service, and the maintenance of strong relationships with large, high-volume purchasers. We also face the risk of changes in the strategy or structure of our major retailer customers, such as overall store and inventory reductions and retailer consolidation. The resulting risks include possible loss of sales, reduced profitability and limited ability to recover cost increases through price increases. We also experience price competition for our products, competition for shelf space at retailers and competition for licenses, all of which may increase in the future. If we cannot compete successfully in the future, our net sales and profitability will likely decline. To compete successfully, we must develop and maintain consumer-meaningful brands. Our ability to compete successfully also depends increasingly on our ability to develop and maintain consumer-meaningful brands so that our retailer customers will need our products to meet consumer demand. The development and maintenance of such brands requires significant investment in brand building and marketing initiatives, although any such investment may not deliver the anticipated results. Our debt covenants may affect our liquidity or limit our ability to complete acquisitions, incur debt, make investments, sell assets, merge or complete other significant transactions. Our current credit agreement includes provisions that place limitations on a number of our activities, including our ability to: incur additional debt; create liens on our assets or make guarantees; make certain investments or loans; pay dividends; repurchase our common stock; dispose of or sell assets; or enter into acquisitions, mergers or similar transactions. These covenants could restrict our ability to pursue opportunities to expand our business operations. We are required to make prepayments of our debt upon the occurrence of certain transactions, including most asset sales or debt or equity issuances and extraordinary receipts. 11 Table of Contents Inability to maintain compliance with the bank covenants. Our ability to maintain compliance with the financial and other covenants in our current credit agreement is dependent upon our ability to continue to execute our business model and current operational plans. See “The state of the economy may impact our business” above. If an event of default in such covenants occurs and is continuing, among other things, the lenders may accelerate the loans, declare the commitments thereunder to be terminated, seize collateral or take other actions of secured creditors. If the loans are accelerated or commitments terminated, we could face substantial liquidity problems and may be forced to dispose of material assets or operations, seek to obtain equity capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. Such alternative measures may not be available or successful. Also, our bank covenants may limit our ability to dispose of material assets or operations or to restructure or refinance our indebtedness. Even if we are able to restructure or refinance our indebtedness, the economic terms may not be favorable to us. In addition, an event of default under our credit agreement could result in a cross-default under certain license agreements that we maintain. All of the foregoing could have serious consequences to our financial condition and results of operations and could cause us to become bankrupt or insolvent. Our cash flows and capital resources may be insufficient to make required payments on our indebtedness. Our ability to generate cash to meet scheduled payments with respect to our debt depends on our financial and operating performance, which, in turn, is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and the other factors discussed in this “Risk Factors” section. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and may be forced to dispose of material assets or operations, seek to obtain equity capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. As discussed in the immediately preceding risk factor, such alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt services obligations. The breach of any covenants or restrictions in our credit agreement could result in a default thereunder, which would permit the lenders to take the actions discussed in the immediately preceding risk factor. In addition, an event of default under our credit agreement could result in a cross-default under certain license agreements that we maintain. As discussed above, this could have serious consequences to our financial condition and results of operations and could cause us to become bankrupt or insolvent. If we lose key personnel we may not be able to achieve our objectives. We are dependent on the continued efforts of various members of senior management, as well as senior executives of several of our subsidiaries. If for any reason, these or other key members of management do not continue to be active in management, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to attract and retain senior executives or other personnel necessary for the continued success of our business. Our business is dependent on several large customers. The continued success of our infant and juvenile businesses depends on our ability to continue to sell our products to several large mass market retailers. In particular, Toys “R” Us, Inc. and Babies “R” Us, Inc. (considered together) and Target accounted for approximately 46.9% and 12.3%, respectively, of our consolidated gross sales from continuing operations during 2009. We typically do not have long-term contracts with our customers and the loss of the foregoing customers or one or more of our other large customers could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. In addition, our success depends upon the continuing willingness of large retailers to purchase and provide shelf space for our products. Our access to shelf space at retailers for our products may be reduced by store closings, consolidation among these retailers, competition from other products or stricter requirements for infant and juvenile products by retailers that we may not be able to meet. An adverse change in our relationship with, or the financial viability of, one or more of our customers could reduce our net sales and profitability. 12 Table of Contents We may not be able to collect outstanding accounts receivable from our major retail customers. Certain of our retail customers purchase large quantities of our products on credit, which may cause a concentration of accounts receivable among some of our largest customers. Our profitability may be harmed if one or more of our largest customers were unable or unwilling to pay these accounts receivable when due or demand credits or other concessions for products they are unable to sell or for other reasons. Federal and state statutes allow courts, under certain specific circumstances, to void purchase transactions in the event of the bankruptcy of the purchaser. Under current federal bankruptcy law and comparable provisions of state fraudulent transfer or fraudulent conveyance laws, in the event of the bankruptcy of a purchaser of the Company’s assets, the sale transaction may be voided or cancelled, and damages imposed on the Company, if, among other things, such purchaser, at the time the transaction was consummated, received less than reasonably equivalent value for the consideration paid; and either was insolvent or rendered insolvent by reason of such transaction. The measures of insolvency for purposes of fraudulent transfer or conveyance laws vary depending upon the particular law applied in any proceeding to determine whether a fraudulent transfer or conveyance has occurred. With respect to the Gift Sale, we believe that, on the basis of historical financial information, operating history and other factors, TRC did receive reasonably equivalent value for the consideration paid by TRC, and that TRC was neither insolvent prior or subsequent to the consummation of the transaction. We cannot assure you, however, as to what standard a court would apply in making these determinations or that a court would agree with our conclusions in this regard. In addition, although we obtained a solvency opinion in connection with this transaction confirming our position, we cannot assure what weight, if any, would be accorded thereto by a court. We rely on foreign suppliers, primarily in the PRC, to manufacture most of our products, which subjects us to numerous international business risks that could increase our costs or disrupt the supply of our products. Approximately 67% of our dollar volume of purchases for our continuing operations are attributable to manufacturers in the PRC. The supplier accounting for the greatest dollar volume of purchases for our continuing operations accounted for approximately 20% and the five largest suppliers accounted for approximately 46% in the aggregate during 2009. While we believe that there are many other manufacturing sources available for our product lines, difficulties encountered by one or several of our larger suppliers such as a fire, accident, natural disaster or an outbreak of illness (e.g., H1N1, SARS or avian or other flu) at one or more of their facilities, could halt or disrupt production at the affected facilities, delay the completion of orders, cause the cancellation of orders, delay the introduction of new products or cause us to miss a selling season applicable to some of our products. In addition, our international operations subject us to certain other risks, including: • economic and political instability; • restrictive actions by foreign governments; • greater difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights and weaker laws protecting intellectual property rights; • changes in import duties or import or export restrictions; • delays in shipping of product and unloading of product through ports, as well as timely rail/truck delivery to our warehouses and/or a customer’s warehouse; • complications in complying with the laws and policies of the United States affecting the importation of goods, including duties, quotas and taxes; • complications in complying with trade and foreign tax laws; and • the effects of terrorist activity, armed conflict and epidemics. 13 Table of Contents Any of these risks could disrupt the supply of our products or increase our expenses. The costs of compliance with trade and foreign tax laws may increase our expenses and actual or alleged violations of such laws could result in enforcement actions or financial penalties that could result in substantial costs. In addition, the introduction of certain social programs in the PRC or otherwise will likely increase the cost of doing business for certain of our manufacturers, which could increase our manufacturing costs. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could increase our expenses. Our net sales are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars, except for a small amount of net sales denominated in U.K. pounds, Australian dollars and Euros. Our purchases of finished goods from Eastern Asian manufacturers are denominated in U.S. dollars. Expenses for these manufacturers are denominated in Chinese Yuan or other Eastern Asian currencies. As a result, any material increase in the value of the Yuan (or such other currencies) relative to the U.S. or Australian dollars or the U.K. pound would increase the prices at which we purchase finished goods and therefore could adversely affect our profitability. We are also subject to exchange rate risk relating to transfers of funds denominated in U.K. pounds, Australian dollars or Euros from our foreign subsidiaries to the United States. Product liability, product recalls and other claims relating to the use of our products could increase our costs. We face product liability risks relating to the use of our products. We also must comply with a variety of product safety and product testing regulations. In particular, our products are subject to, among other statutes and regulations, the Consumer Product Safety Act, the Federal Hazardous Substances Act (“FHSA”) and the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act (“CPSIA”), which empower the Consumer Product Safety Commission (the “CPSC”), to take action against hazards presented by consumer products, including adjudication and promulgation of regulations and uniform safety standards. With expanded authority under the CPSIA, the CPSC has and continues to adopt new regulations for safety and products testing that apply to substantially all of our products. These new regulations have or likely will significantly increase the regulatory requirements governing the manufacture and sale of children’s products and increase the potential penalties for noncompliance with applicable regulations. The CPSC has the authority to exclude from the market and recall certain consumer products that are found to be potentially hazardous. Consumer product safety laws also exist in some states and cities within the United States and in Canada, Australia and Europe, as well as certain other countries. While we take the steps we believe are necessary to comply with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance in the future. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, or if we face product liability claims, we may be subject to damage awards or settlement costs that exceed any available insurance coverage and we may incur significant costs in complying with recall requirements. Furthermore, concerns about potential liability may lead us to recall voluntarily selected products. For instance, following the receipt of consumer complaints that certain drop-side cribs manufactured by LaJobi did not work properly when the locking device was damaged or broken, we recently notified the CPSC of our intention to undertake voluntary corrective action with respect to such cribs. With the exception of one child who received a bruise, we are unaware of any injuries associated with these cribs. The financial impact of the proposed corrective action, an estimate of which has been accrued in the three months ended December 31, 2009, is not expected to be material. Recalls or post-manufacture repairs of our products could harm our reputation, increase our costs or reduce our net sales. Governments and regulatory agencies in the markets where we manufacture and sell products may enact additional regulations relating to product safety and consumer protection in the future that may adversely impact children’s products, including the categories of products that we produce and sell. In addition, one or more of our customers might require changes or impose their own standards for our products, such as the non-use of certain materials. Complying with existing or any such additional regulations or requirements could impose increased costs on our business. Similarly, increased penalties for non-compliance could subject us to greater expense in the event any of our products were found to not comply with such 14 Table of Contents regulations. Furthermore, substantially all of our licenses give the licensor the right to terminate the license agreement if any products marketed under the license are subject to a product liability claim, recall or similar violations of product safety regulations or if we breach covenants relating to the safety of the products or their compliance with product safety regulations. A termination of a license could adversely affect our net sales. Even if a product liability claim is without merit, the claim could harm our reputation and divert management’s attention and resources from our business. Competition for licenses could increase our licensing costs or limit our ability to market products. We market a portion of our products through licenses with other parties. These licenses are generally limited in scope and duration and generally authorize the sale of specific licensed products on an exclusive or nonexclusive basis. Our license agreements often require us to make minimum guaranteed royalty payments that may exceed the amount we are able to generate from actual sales of the licensed products. Any termination of or failure to renew our significant licenses, or inability to develop and enter into new licenses, could limit our ability to market our licensed products or develop new products, and could reduce our net sales and profitability. Competition for licenses could require us to pay licensors higher royalties and higher minimum guaranteed payments in order to obtain or retain attractive licenses, which could increase our expenses. In addition, licenses granted to other parties, whether or not exclusive, could limit our ability to market products, including products we currently market, which could cause our net sales and profitability to decline. Trademark infringement or other intellectual property claims relating to our products could increase our costs. We have from time to time received claims of alleged infringement of intellectual property relating to certain of our products, and we may face similar claims in the future. The defense of intellectual property litigation can be both costly and disruptive of the time and resources of our management, even if the claim is without merit. We also may be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs to resolve intellectual property litigation. In addition, these claims could materially harm our brand name, reputation and operations. We may experience difficulties in integrating strategic acquisitions. As part of our growth strategy, we may pursue acquisitions that are consistent with our mission and enable us to leverage our competitive strengths. The integration of acquired companies and their operations into our operations involves a number of risks including: • possible failure to maintain customer, licensor and other relationships after the closing of the transaction of the acquired company; • the acquired business may experience losses which could adversely affect our profitability; • unanticipated costs relating to the integration of acquired businesses may increase our expenses; • difficulties in achieving planned cost-savings and synergies may increase our expenses or decrease our net sales; • diversion of management’s attention could impair their ability to effectively manage our business operations, and unanticipated management or operational problems or liabilities may adversely affect our profitability and financial condition; or • possible failure to obtain any necessary consents to the transfer of licenses or other agreements of the acquired company. Additionally, we financed our acquisitions of Kids Line, LaJobi and CoCaLo with senior debt financing. This debt leverage, or additional leverage that may be incurred with any other future acquisitions, could adversely affect our profitability and limit our ability to capitalize on future business opportunities. 15 Table of Contents Disruptions in our current information technology systems or difficulties in implementing alternative information technology systems could harm our business. System failure or malfunctioning in our information technology systems may result in disruption of operations and the inability to process transactions and could adversely affect our financial results. In addition, we currently intend to commence the implementation in 2010 of a new consolidated information technology system for our operations, which we believe will provide greater efficiencies, lower costs and greater reporting capabilities than those provided by the current systems in place across our individual infant and juvenile companies. In connection with such implementation, we anticipate incurring costs of an aggregate of approximately $1.3 million, a substantial portion of which is expected to be incurred in 2010, and our business may be subject to transitional difficulties as we replace the current systems. These difficulties may include disruption of our operations, loss of data, and the diversion of our management and key employees’ attention away from other business matters. The difficulties associated with any such implementation, and our failure to realize the anticipated benefits from the implementation, could harm our business, results of operations and cash flows. A limited number of our shareholders can exert significant influence over us. As reported in various Schedules 13D filed with the SEC, (i) various investment funds and accounts managed by Prentice Capital Management, LP, and (ii) D. E. Shaw Laminar Portfolios, L.L.C., beneficially own approximately 20.4% and 20.4%, respectively, of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Prentice and Laminar each currently has the right to nominate two members of our Board of Directors. This share ownership would permit these and other large stockholders to exert significant influence over the outcome of stockholder votes, including votes concerning the election of directors, by-law amendments, possible mergers, corporate control contests and other significant corporate transactions. Changes in our effective tax rate may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our future effective tax rate and the amount of our provision for income taxes may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: • adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; • increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes; • changes in available tax credits; • changes in share-based compensation expense; • changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; • changes in accounting standards or tax laws and regulations, or interpretations thereof; • the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; • the resolution of issues arising from uncertain positions and tax audits with various tax authorities; and • penalties and/or interest expense that we may be required to recognize on liabilities associated with uncertain tax positions. Any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could adversely impact our net income for future periods. Actual results differing from estimates. If actual events, circumstances, outcomes and amounts differ from judgments, assumptions and estimates made or used in determining the amount of certain assets (including the amount of recoverability of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, valuation allowances for receivables, inventories and deferred 16 Table of Contents income tax assets), liabilities (including accruals for income taxes and liabilities) and or other items reflected in our consolidated financial statements, it could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Increased costs associated with corporate governance compliance may affect our results of operations. The Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 has required changes in some of our corporate governance and securities disclosure and compliance practices, and requires ongoing review of our internal control procedures. These developments have increased our legal compliance and financial reporting costs, and to the extent that we identify areas of our disclosures controls and procedures and/or internal controls requiring improvement we may have to incur additional costs and divert management’s time and attention. Any such action could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If our divested gift business fails to satisfy certain obligations relating to their operations, we could face third-party claims seeking to hold us liable for those obligations. In December of 2008, we completed the Gift Sale. We remain contingently liable to third parties for some obligations of the gift business, such as a real estate lease assumed by the buyer in the transaction, and may remain contingently liable for certain contracts and other obligations that have not been novated, in either case if such buyer fails to meet its obligations. Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we receive any such third-party claims. The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and investors in our common stock may experience substantial losses. The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and may continue to be volatile in the future. The trading price of our common stock could decline or fluctuate in response to a variety of factors, including: • changes in financial estimates of our net sales and operating results; • buy/sell recommendations by securities analysts; • the timing of announcements by us or our competitors concerning significant product developments, acquisitions or financial performance; • fluctuation in our quarterly operating results; • other economic or external factors; • our failure to meet the performance estimates of securities analysts or investors; • substantial sales of our common stock or the registration of substantial shares for sale; or • general stock market conditions. You may be unable to sell your stock at or above your purchase price. If we fail to maintain compliance with the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange, our common stock may be delisted therefrom. Our common stock is currently listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). We may fail to comply with the continued listing requirements of the NYSE, which may result in the delisting of our common stock. The NYSE rules require, among other things, that the minimum listing price of our common stock be at least $1.00 for more than 30 consecutive trading days, and that our average market capitalization be at least $15 million over any 30 consecutive trading day period. Delisting would have an adverse effect on the liquidity of our common stock and, as a result, the market price for our common stock might become more volatile. Delisting could also make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital. As of March 19, 2010, our 30 day 17 Table of Contents average market capitalization was approximately $111.0 million and our 30 trading day average stock price was $5.14. We do not anticipate paying regular dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, so any short-term return on your investment will depend on the market price of our common stock. The covenants in our credit agreement limit our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. No assurance, therefore, may be given that there will be any future dividends declared or that future dividend declarations, if any, will be commensurate in amount or frequency with past dividends. Terrorist attacks and threats may disrupt our operations and negatively impact our revenues, costs and stock price. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 in the U.S., the U.S. response to those attacks and the resulting decline in consumer confidence had a substantial adverse effect on the U.S. economy. Any similar future events may disrupt our operations directly or indirectly by affecting the operations of our customers. In addition, these events have had and may continue to have an adverse impact on the U.S. economy in general and on consumer confidence and spending in particular, which could harm our revenues. Any new terrorist events or threats could have a negative effect on the U.S. and world financial markets generally, which could reduce the price of our common stock and may limit the capital resources available to us and others with whom we conduct business. If any of these events occur, they could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and could result in increased volatility in the market price of our common stock. Various restrictions in our charter documents, policies, New Jersey law and our credit agreement could prevent or delay a change in control of us which is not supported by our board of directors. We are subject to a number of provisions in our charter documents, policies, New Jersey law and our credit agreement that may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or change of control that a stockholder may consider favorable. These anti-takeover provisions include: • advance notice procedures for nominations of candidates for election as directors and for stockholder proposals to be considered at stockholders’ meetings; • the absence of cumulative voting in the election of directors; • covenants in our credit agreement restricting mergers, asset sales and similar transactions and a provision in our credit agreement that triggers an event of default upon certain acquisitions by a person or group of persons with beneficial ownership of 50.1% or more of our outstanding common stock; and • the New Jersey Shareholders Protection Act. The New Jersey Shareholders Protection Act, as it pertains to us, prohibits, among other things, a merger, consolidation, specified asset sale, specified issuance or transfer of stock, or other similar business combination or disposition between the Company and any beneficial owner of 10% or more of our voting stock for a period of five years after such “interested” stockholder acquires 10% or more of our voting stock, unless the transaction is approved by our board of directors before such interested stockholder acquires 10% or more of our voting stock. In addition, no such transaction shall occur at any time unless: (1) the transaction is approved by our board of directors before the interested stockholder acquires 10% or more of our voting stock, (2) the transaction is approved by the holders of two-thirds of our voting stock excluding shares of our voting stock owned by such interested stockholder or (3) (A) the aggregate consideration received per share by stockholders in such transaction is at least equal to the higher of (i) the highest per share price (including any brokerage commissions, transfer taxes and soliciting dealer’s fees) paid by the interested stockholder (x) within the 5-year period preceding the announcement date of such transaction or (y) within the 5-year period 18 Table of Contents preceding, or in the transaction, in which the stockholder became an interested stockholder, whichever is higher, in each case plus specified interest, less the value of dividends paid since that earliest date, up to the amount of such interest, and (ii) the market value per share of common stock on the announcement date of such transaction or on the date the interested stockholder became an interested stockholder, whichever is higher, plus specified interest, less the value of dividends paid since that date, up to the amount of such interest, (B) the consideration in the transaction received by stockholders is in cash or in the same form as the interested stockholder used to acquire the largest number of shares previously acquired by it, and (C) after the date the interested stockholder became an interested stockholder, and prior to the consummation of the transaction, such interested stockholder has not become the beneficial owner of additional shares of our stock, except (w) as part of the transaction which resulted in the interested stockholder becoming an interested stockholder, (x) by virtue of proportionate stock splits, stock dividends or other distributions not constituting a transaction covered by the New Jersey Shareholders Protection Act, (y) through a transaction meeting the conditions of paragraph (B) above and this paragraph (C) or (z) through purchase by the interested stockholder at any price, which, if that price had been paid in an otherwise permissible transaction under the New Jersey Shareholders Protection Act, the announcement date and consummation date of which were the date of that purchase, would have satisfied the requirements of paragraphs (A) and (B) above. We have granted stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock and restricted stock units to certain management employees and directors as compensation, which may depress our stock price and result in dilution to our common stockholders. As of March 19, 2010, options to purchase approximately 880,615 shares of our common stock were outstanding, 46% of which are currently vested; 1,266,193 stock appreciation rights have been issued, 16% of which are currently vested; 56,980 non-vested shares of restricted stock are outstanding; and 188,370 non-vested restricted stock units are outstanding. Our Equity Incentive Plan allows for the granting of additional incentive stock options, non-qualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, stock units, restricted and non-restricted shares and/or dividend equivalent rights, up to a total of 1.5 million shares (plus additional shares in the event of specified circumstances). If the market price of our common stock rises above the exercise price of outstanding vested options, holders of those securities may exercise their options and sell the common stock acquired upon exercise of such options in the open market. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market by holders of exercised vested options, vested restricted stock, vested stock appreciation rights and/or vested restricted stock units settled in or exercised for stock may depress the prevailing market price for our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the future sale of our equity securities. Additionally, if the holders of outstanding vested options exercise those options, our common stockholders will incur dilution. The exercise price of all common stock options is subject to adjustment upon stock dividends, splits and combinations, as well as anti-dilution adjustments as set forth in the relevant award agreement. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 