ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below constitute the material risks pertaining to our business. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occurs, our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. In such cases, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. Our net sales and profitability depend on our ability to continue to conceive, design and market products that appeal to consumers. The introduction of new products is critical in our industry and to our growth strategy. A significant percentage of our product line is replaced each year with new products. Our business depends on our ability to continue to conceive, design and market new products and upon continuing market acceptance of our product offerings. Rapidly changing consumer preferences and trends make it difficult to predict how long consumer demand for our existing products will continue or which new products will be successful. Our current products may not continue to be popular or new products that we introduce may not achieve adequate consumer acceptance for us to recover development, manufacturing, marketing and other costs. A decline in consumer demand for our products, our failure to develop new products on a timely basis in anticipation of changing consumer preferences or the failure of our new products to achieve and sustain consumer acceptance could reduce our net sales and profitability. In addition, changes in customer preferences leave us vulnerable to an increased risk of inventory obsolescence. Thus, our ability to manage our inventories properly is an important factor in our operations. Inventory shortages can adversely affect the timing of shipments to customers and diminish sales and brand loyalty. Conversely, excess inventories can result in lower gross margins due to the excessive discounts and markdowns that might be necessary to reduce inventory levels. Our inability to effectively manage our inventory could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 5 Table of Contents Gross margin could be adversely affected by several factors. Gross margin was adversely affected in 2011 and may be adversely affected in the future by increases in vendor costs (including as a result of increases in the cost of raw materials, labor or other costs or fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates), excess inventory, obsolescence charges, changes in shipment volume or freight rates, price competition and changes in channels of distribution or in the mix of products sold. For example, increased costs in the PRC, primarily for labor, raw materials, and the impact of certain tax laws, as well as the appreciation of the Chinese Yuan against the U.S. dollar, have at times, including during 2011, negatively impacted our gross margins. We currently expect PRC labor and other costs to continue to rise in the near term. In addition, pressure from major retailers, primarily as a result of continued challenging economic conditions, to offer additional mark-downs and other credits or price concessions to clear existing inventory and secure new product placements, or to accept additional returns, have and may continue to negatively impact our margins. Economic conditions, such as rising fuel prices and currency exchange fluctuations, may also adversely impact our margins. Our Kids Line and CoCaLo businesses use significant quantities of cotton, either in the form of cotton fabric or cotton-polyester fabric. Cotton is subject to ongoing price fluctuations because it is an agricultural product impacted by changing weather patterns, disease and other factors, such as supply and demand considerations, both domestically and internationally. In addition, increased oil prices affect key components of the raw material prices in many of our products. Significant increases in the prices of cotton or oil have and could adversely affect our gross margins and our operations. In addition, charges pertaining to anti-dumping duties that we anticipate will be owed by our LaJobi subsidiary to U.S. Customs, and charges pertaining to customs duties we anticipate will be owed by our Kids Line and CoCaLo subsidiaries to U.S. Customs have affected gross margins and net income for specified periods (See the “Explanatory Note” above and Note 19 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). The restatement of Prior Financial Statements herein, as described in Note 19 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, had a positive impact on previously-reported results of operations for 2010 and 2011, and a negative impact on previously-reported results of operation for prior periods. As the customs matters have not been concluded, however, it is possible that the actual amount of duty owed for the relevant periods could be higher than currently accrued amounts, and in any event, additional interest will continue to accrue until payment is made. In addition, we may be assessed by U.S. Customs a penalty of up to 100% of any customs duty owed, as well as possibly being subject to additional fines, penalties or other measures from U.S. Customs or other governmental authorities. Any amounts owed in excess of the accruals recorded will adversely affect our gross margin and net income for the period(s) in which such amounts are recorded and could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. See Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the LaJobi anti-dumping duty matters and the Kids Line/CoCaLo customs duty matters. We have discontinued the practices that resulted in the charge for anticipated anti-dumping duties, and have established alternate vendor arrangements for the relevant product in countries that are not subject to such anti-dumping duties. We believe that our ability to procure the affected categories of furniture has not been materially adversely affected. Our business is dependent on several large customers. The continued success of our infant and juvenile businesses depends on our ability to continue to sell our products to several large mass market retailers. In particular, Toys “R” Us, Inc. and Babies “R” Us, Inc. (considered together), Wal-Mart and Target accounted for approximately 39.8%, 12.7% and 8.8%, respectively, of our consolidated gross sales for the 2011 calendar year. While the consolidation of our customer base may provide certain benefits to us, such as potentially more efficient product distribution and other decreased costs of sales and distribution, we typically do not have long-term contracts with our customers and our agreements with these customers do not require them to purchase any specific number or amount of our products. As a result, agreements with respect to pricing, returns, cooperative advertising or special promotions or allowances, among other things, are subject to periodic negotiation with each customer. No assurance can be given that these or other customers will continue to do business with us or that they will maintain their historical levels of business, and the loss of one or more of the foregoing customers or one or more of our other large customers could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. In addition, our success depends upon the continuing willingness of large retailers to purchase and provide shelf space for our products. Our access to shelf space at retailers for our products may be reduced by store closings, consolidation among these retailers, competition from other products or stricter requirements for infant and juvenile products by retailers that we may not be able to meet. An adverse change in our relationship with, or the financial viability of, one or more of our large customers could reduce our net sales and profitability. 6 Table of Contents Competition in our markets could reduce our net sales and profitability. We operate in highly competitive markets. Certain of our competitors have greater brand recognition and greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have. In addition, we may face competition from new participants in our markets because the infant and juvenile product industry has limited barriers to entry. Many of our principal customers are large mass merchandisers. The rapid growth of these large mass merchandisers, together with changes in consumer shopping patterns, have contributed to the formation of dominant multi-category retailers that have strong negotiating power with suppliers. Current trends among retailers include fostering high levels of competition among suppliers, demanding innovative new products and requiring suppliers to maintain or reduce product prices and deliver products with shorter lead times. Other trends are for retailers to import products directly from factory sources and to source and sell products under their own private label brands that compete with our products. The combination of these market influences has created an intensely competitive environment in which our principal customers continuously evaluate which product suppliers to use, resulting in downward pricing pressures and the need for consumer-meaningful brands, the ongoing introduction and commercialization of innovative new products, continuing improvements in customer service, and the maintenance of strong relationships with large, high-volume purchasers. We also face the risk of changes in the strategy or structure of our major retailer customers, such as overall store and inventory reductions and retailer consolidation. The resulting risks include possible loss of sales, reduced profitability and limited ability to recover cost increases through price increases. We also experience price competition for our products, competition for shelf space at retailers and competition for licenses, all of which may increase in the future. If we cannot compete successfully in the future, our net sales and profitability will likely decline. To compete successfully, we must develop and maintain consumer-meaningful brands. Our ability to compete successfully also depends increasingly on our ability to develop and maintain consumer-meaningful brands so that our retailer customers will need our products to meet consumer demand. The development and maintenance of such brands requires significant investment in brand building and marketing initiatives, although any such investment may not deliver the anticipated results. The state of the economy may impact our business. Our business and results of operations are affected by international, national and regional economic conditions. The United States and many other international economies experienced a major recession in recent periods, with continuing effects for our industry. The end-users of our products are individual consumers. A hesitant recovery in the U.S economy, high unemployment, volatile capital markets, depressed housing prices and tight consumer lending practices have resulted in considerable negative pressure on consumer spending and consumer confidence, which we believe has resulted in lower birth rates and could result in reduced demand for our products. In the event that current economic conditions worsen, current and potential consumers of our products may be inclined to delay their purchases, and further tightening of credit markets may restrict our customers’ (both direct and indirect) ability and willingness to make purchases. In addition, continuing adverse global economic conditions in our markets could result in increased price competition for our products, increased risk of excess and obsolete inventories, increased risk in the collectability of accounts receivable from our direct customers, increased risk in potential reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable, delays in signing or failing to sign direct customer contracts or signing customer agreements at reduced purchase levels, and limitations in the capital resources available to us and others with whom we conduct business. Any of the foregoing effects could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition and could adversely affect our stock price. 7 Table of Contents We are currently party to litigation that could be costly to defend and distracting to management, and if decided against us, could have a material adverse effect on our business. The Company received a letter on July 25, 2011 from counsel to Lawrence Bivona demanding payment of the LaJobi earnout consideration to Mr. Bivona in the amount of $15.0 million, and a letter from counsel to Mr. Bivona alleging that Mr. Bivona’s termination by LaJobi “for cause” violated his employment agreement and demanding payment to Mr. Bivona of amounts purportedly due under such employment agreement. On December 22, 2011, Mr. Bivona initiated an arbitration proceeding with respect to these (and related) issues seeking damages in excess of $25.0 million. On February 22, 2012, the Company and LaJobi filed an answer thereto, in which they denied any liability, asserted counterclaims against Mr. Bivona, and asserted a third-party complaint against Mr. Bivona’s brother and the LaJobi seller. Because the restatement of the Prior Financial Statements results in the technical satisfaction of the formulaic provisions for the payment of a portion of the LaJobi earnout under the agreement governing the purchase of the LaJobi assets, applicable accounting standards require that the Company record a liability in the amount of the formulaic calculation, without taking into consideration the Company’s affirmative defenses, counterclaims and third party claims. Accordingly, in connection with the restatement of the Prior Financial Statements herein, the Company recorded a liability in the approximate amount of $11.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 ($10.6 million in respect of the LaJobi earnout and $1.1 million in respect of a related finder’s fee), with an offset in equal amount to goodwill, all of which goodwill was impaired as of December 31, 2011. While we intend to vigorously defend against all of Mr. Bivona’s claims, and believe that we will prevail, based on, among other things, our affirmative defenses, counterclaims and third-party claims (in which case we will be able to reverse such liability), there can be no assurance that this will be the case. An adverse decision in the arbitration that requires any significant payment by us to Mr. Bivona or the LaJobi seller could result in a default under our credit agreement and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See “Inability to maintain compliance with the bank covenants” below. Also see Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the August 2011 refinancing of the Company’s senior secured financing facility, including a discussion of conditions precedent to any LaJobi earnout payment requirements and the impact of any such payment on our required financial covenants. In March 2011, a purported class action lawsuit was filed on behalf of persons who allegedly purchased our common stock between March 26, 2010 and August 16, 2011. The complaint, among other things, alleged one claim for relief pursuant to Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder, and a second claim pursuant to Section 20(a) of the Exchange Act, claiming generally that we and/or other specified defendants issued materially false and misleading statements during the relevant time period regarding compliance with customs laws, our financial reports and internal controls. On March 8, 2012, the complaint was dismissed without prejudice in a decision that cited the complaint’s failure to meet applicable pleading standards. The plaintiff was granted leave to amend the complaint, within sixty (60) days, in a manner consistent with the Court’s decision. To date, no amended complaint has been filed. In addition, in May 2011, a putative shareholder derivative complaint was filed by the City of Roseville Employees’ Retirement System in the United States District Court of the District of New Jersey, alleging that specified defendants breached their fiduciary duties to the Company by allegedly failing to oversee and disclose alleged misconduct at KID’s LaJobi subsidiary related to LaJobi’s compliance with U.S. Customs laws. In addition to asserting the breach of fiduciary duty claim, the complaint also asserted claims of gross mismanagement, abuse of control and commission of corporate waste and for unjust enrichment. On October 24, 2011, the Court granted the defendants’ motion to dismiss without prejudice in a decision that cited the complaint’s failure to meet applicable pleading standards required to bring a shareholder derivative claim. The plaintiff was granted leave to amend the complaint in a manner consistent with the Court’s decision. As of the date of this report, such plaintiff has initiated a books and records inspection, to which the Company is responding. Additional litigation may be initiated against us based on the alleged items at issue in the complaints described above, or based on the restatement of specified financial statements as described in the “Explanatory Note” above. In addition, the plaintiffs may amend the putative class action and/or derivative complaints in a manner consistent with the decisions of the applicable court. We cannot predict the final outcome of such lawsuits or the likelihood that further proceedings will be instituted against us. Although we believe that the claims in the putative class action and putative shareholder derivative action are covered by insurance and that the applicable deductible has been satisfied, there can be no assurance that this is the case. Accordingly, the cost of defending against such lawsuits, other lawsuits pending against the Company, or any future lawsuits or proceedings may be high and, in any event, these legal proceedings may result in the diversion of our management’s time and attention away from our business. In the event that there is an adverse ruling in any legal proceeding, we may be required to make payments to third parties that could harm our business, financial results or reputation. See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” for more detail with respect to these and other material legal proceedings to which the Company or its subsidiaries are parties. Our debt covenants may affect our liquidity or limit our ability to complete acquisitions, incur debt, make investments, sell assets, merge or complete other significant transactions. Our current credit agreement includes provisions that place limitations on a number of our activities, including our ability to: incur additional debt; create liens on our assets or make guarantees; make certain investments or loans; pay dividends; repurchase our common stock; dispose of or sell assets; or enter into acquisitions, mergers or similar transactions. These covenants could restrict our ability to pursue opportunities to expand our business operations. We are required to make prepayments of our debt upon a sale of the assets or membership interests in the Licensor or the real estate owned by Sassy. 8 Table of Contents Inability to maintain compliance with the bank covenants. Our ability to maintain compliance with the financial and other covenants in our current credit agreement is dependent upon our ability to continue to execute our business model and our ability to generate cash from operations, which, in turn, is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions. See “The state of the economy may impact our business” above and the other factors discussed in this “Risk Factors” section. If an event of default in such covenants occurs and is continuing, among other things, the lenders may accelerate the loans, declare the commitments thereunder to be terminated, seize collateral or take other actions of secured creditors. If the loans are accelerated or commitments terminated, we could face substantial liquidity problems and may be forced to dispose of material assets or operations, seek to obtain equity capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. Such alternative measures may not be available or successful. Also, our bank covenants may limit our ability to dispose of material assets or operations or to restructure or refinance our indebtedness. Even if we are able to restructure or refinance our indebtedness, the economic terms may not be favorable to us. In addition, an event of default under our credit agreement could result in a cross-default under certain license agreements that we maintain. All of the foregoing could have serious consequences to our financial condition and results of operations and could cause us to become bankrupt or insolvent. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under the sections captioned “Liquidity and Capital Resources” and “Debt Financing”, as well as Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Increases in interest rates may increase our interest expense and adversely affect our profitability and cash flows. The loans under our credit agreement bear interest, at our option, at a specified base rate or Eurodollar rate, plus applicable margins, which vary between 1.75% and 2.75% on Eurodollar borrowings and .75% and 1.75% on base rate borrowings. At December 31, 2011, the applicable margins were 2.25% for Eurodollar borrowings and 1.25% for base rate borrowings. Increases in the interest rate under our credit agreement will increase our interest expense, which could harm our profitability and cash flow. Deviations from expected results of operations and/or expected cash requirements could result in a default under our credit agreement and/or adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations Our principal sources of liquidity are cash flows from operations, cash and cash equivalents and availability under our bank facility. Our operating activities generally provide sufficient cash to fund our working capital requirements and, together with borrowings under our bank facility, are expected to be sufficient to fund our operating needs and capital requirements for at least the next twelve months (including expected customs duty assessments and related interest), based on current assumptions regarding the timing of such expenditures and anticipated cash flows. Based on our current expectations, we anticipate that availability under our bank facility, which is based on, among other things, a quarterly maximum consolidated leverage ratio, which is the ratio of the Company’s indebtedness to Covenant EBITDA (as defined in our credit agreement) for the most recently completed four quarters, will be substantially lower during the first two fiscal quarters of 2012 than it has been historically, or that we anticipate it will be in the second half of 2012. Accordingly, any significant deviation in actual results from our expected results of operations, any significant deviation in the timing of material expenditures from current estimates, or any significant earnout payments, significant business or product acquisitions, or other significant unanticipated expenses (including customs duty assessments and related interest in excess of current accruals, and/or any related penalties) could result in a default under our credit agreement, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and/or may result in the need for additional debt or equity financing. Any significant payment by us in respect of the LaJobi earnout consideration could result in a default under our credit agreement and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See “Inability to maintain compliance with the bank covenants” and “We are currently party to litigation that could be costly to defend and distracting to management, and if decided against us, could have a material adverse effect on our business” above. See also “Debt Financing – New Credit Agreement” in Item 7 below for conditions precedent contained in our credit agreement with respect to the payment of any earnout consideration, as well as the impact of any such payment on our required financial covenants. More generally, if actual events, circumstances, outcomes and amounts differ from judgments, assumptions and estimates made or used in determining the amount of certain assets (including the amount of recoverability of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, valuation allowances for receivables, inventories and deferred income tax assets), liabilities (including accruals for income taxes and liabilities) and or other items reflected in our consolidated financial statements, it could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 9 Table of Contents Further potential disruptions in the credit markets may adversely affect the availability and cost of short-term funds for liquidity requirements and our ability to meet long-term commitments, which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. If sufficient internal funds are not available from our operations, we may be required to further rely on the banking and credit markets to meet our financial commitments and short-term liquidity needs. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets, as were experienced during 2008 and much of 2009, could adversely affect our ability to draw on our bank revolving credit facility. Our access to funds under our credit facility is dependent on the ability of the banks that are parties to such facility to meet their funding commitments. Those banks may not be able to meet their funding commitments to us if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests from us and other borrowers within a short period of time. Longer term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives, or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to liquidity needed for our business. Any disruption could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. Such measures could include deferring capital expenditures, and reducing or eliminating discretionary uses of cash. The restatement of our specified historical financial statements may affect shareholder confidence, may consume a significant amount of our time and resources and may have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. As is described in Note 19 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and the Explanatory Note above, the Company has restated specified financial statements in this 2011 10-K to reflect the recording of anticipated anti-dumping duty payment requirements of the Company’s LaJobi subsidiary and anticipated customs duty payment requirements of the Company’s Kids Line and CoCaLo subsidiaries (and related interest in each case) in the respective periods to which such liabilities relate. We cannot be certain that the measures we have taken since we completed the restatement process will ensure that restatements will not occur in the future. The restatement may affect investor confidence in the accuracy of our financial disclosures, may raise reputational issues for our business, and may result in a decline in share price and shareholder lawsuits related to the restatement. The restatement process was also highly time and resource-intensive and involved substantial attention from management and significant legal and accounting costs. Although we have now completed the restatement (other than with respect to quarterly reports during 2012), we cannot guarantee that we will not receive inquiries from the SEC or the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”) regarding our restated financial statements or matters relating thereto. Any future inquiries from the SEC or the NYSE as a result of the restatement of our historical financial statements will, regardless of the outcome, likely consume a significant amount of our resources in addition to those resources already consumed in connection with the restatement itself. We have received a letter regarding an informal investigation by the SEC, as well as a request for information by the United States Attorney’s Office for the District of New Jersey, and such investigation and request may require a significant amount of management resources and result in adverse consequences to the Company. On June 20, 2011, we received a letter from the New York Regional Office of the SEC informing us that the SEC was conducting an informal investigation, and requesting that we provide certain documents on a voluntary basis. We believe we have fully cooperated and will continue to fully cooperate with the SEC. We are currently unable to predict whether a formal investigation will be initiated or what consequences any further investigation may have on us. Furthermore, we are unable to predict the likelihood of or potential outcomes from regulatory proceedings or government enforcement actions relating to the matters under investigation. The resolution of these matters could be time-consuming and expensive, further distract management from other business concerns and harm our business. We cannot provide assurance that we will not be subject to adverse publicity, fines or penalties, as well as other sanctions or other contingent liabilities or adverse customer or market reactions in connection with the resolution of this matter, which could harm our business and financial condition. In addition, on August 19, 2011, the United States Attorney’s Office for the District of New Jersey (“USAO”) contacted Company counsel, requesting information relating to LaJobi previously provided by the Company to U.S. Customs and the SEC, as well as additional documents. We have and continue to cooperate with the USAO on a voluntary basis. We are currently unable to predict the duration, the resources required or outcome of the USAO investigation or the impact such investigation may have on the Company. 10 Table of Contents Product liability, product recalls and other claims relating to the use of our products could increase our costs. We face product liability risks relating to the use of our products. We also must comply with a variety of product safety and product testing regulations. In particular, our products are subject to, among other statutes and regulations, the Consumer Product Safety Act, the Federal Hazardous Substances Act, or the FHSA, and the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act, or the CPSIA, which empower the Consumer Product Safety Commission, or the CPSC, to take action against hazards presented by consumer products, including adjudication and promulgation of regulations and uniform safety standards. With expanded authority under the CPSIA, the CPSC has and continues to adopt new regulations for safety and products testing that apply to substantially all of our products. These new regulations have and are expected to further significantly increase the regulatory requirements governing the manufacture and sale of infant and juvenile products and increase the potential penalties for noncompliance with applicable regulations. The CPSC has the authority to exclude from the market and recall certain consumer products that are found to be potentially hazardous. Consumer product safety laws also exist in some states and cities within the United States and in Canada, Australia and Europe, as well as certain other countries. While we take the steps we believe are necessary to comply with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance in the future, or that rapidly changing safety standards will not render unsaleable products that complied with previously-applicable safety standards. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, or if we face product liability claims, we may be subject to damage awards or settlement costs that exceed any available insurance coverage, we may incur significant costs in complying with recall requirements, and our financial results could be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, concerns about potential liability or potential future changes in product safety regulations may lead us to recall voluntarily or otherwise discontinue selling selected products which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Recalls, post-manufacture repairs of our products, or product liability claims could also harm our reputation, increase our costs or reduce our net sales. Governments and regulatory agencies in the markets where we manufacture and sell products may enact additional regulations relating to product safety and consumer protection in the future or take other actions that may adversely impact infant and juvenile products, including the categories of products that we produce and sell. In addition, one or more of our customers might require changes or impose their own standards for our products, such as the non-use of certain materials or a refusal to sell certain products. Complying with existing or any such additional regulations or requirements could impose increased costs on our business. Similarly, increased penalties for non-compliance could subject us to greater expense in the event any of our products were found to not comply with such regulations. Furthermore, substantially all of our licenses give the licensor the right to terminate the license agreement if any products marketed under the license are subject to a product liability claim, recall or similar violations of product safety regulations or if we breach covenants relating to the safety of the products or their compliance with product safety regulations. A termination of a license could adversely affect our net sales. Even if a product liability claim is without merit, the claim could harm our reputation and divert management’s attention and resources from our business. If we lose key personnel we may not be able to achieve our objectives. We are dependent on the continued efforts of various members of senior management, as well as senior executives of several of our subsidiaries. If for any reason, these or other key members of management do not continue to be active in management, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to attract and retain senior executives or other personnel necessary for the continued success of our business. If additional intangible assets become impaired we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. We test goodwill and our other intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis or on an interim basis if an event occurs that might reduce the fair value of the asset below its carrying value. We conduct testing for impairment during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. In the fourth quarter of 2011, we recorded non-cash impairment charges of approximately: (i) $11.7 million to goodwill, constituting all of the goodwill we were required to record as of December 31, 2010 in connection with the liability we were required to record with respect to potential LaJobi earnout consideration (and a related finder’s fee) as a result of the restatement of the Prior Financial Statements, and the impact of such restatement on the formulaic provisions for the payment of a portion of the LaJobi earnout under the agreement governing the purchase of the LaJobi assets; (ii) $9.9 million for the impairment of the LaJobi trade names; and (iii) $19.0 million for the impairment of our Kids Line customer relationships. See Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We will continue to evaluate the recoverability of the carrying amount of our intangible assets on an ongoing basis, and we may incur additional impairment charges, which could be substantial and could adversely affect our financial results. Impairment assessments inherently involve judgment as to assumptions about expected future cash flows and the impact of market conditions on those assumptions. Future events and changing market conditions may impact our assumptions as to prices, costs, holding periods or other factors that may result in changes in our estimates of future cash flows. Factors that might reduce the fair value of an intangible asset below its carrying value include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates in our industry. 11 Table of Contents We may not be able to collect outstanding accounts receivable from our major retail customers. Certain of our retail customers purchase large quantities of our products on credit, which may cause a concentration of accounts receivable among some of our largest customers. Our profitability may be harmed if one or more of our largest customers were unable or unwilling to pay these accounts receivable when due or demand credits or other concessions for products they are unable to sell or for other reasons. Competition for licenses could increase our licensing costs or limit our ability to market products. We market a significant portion of our products through licenses with other parties. Sales of licensed products represented 45% of our net sales in fiscal year 2011. These licenses are generally limited in scope and duration and generally authorize the sale of specific licensed products on an exclusive or nonexclusive basis. Our license agreements often require us to make minimum guaranteed royalty payments that may exceed the amount we are able to generate from actual sales of the licensed products. Any termination of or failure to renew our significant licenses, or inability to develop and enter into new licenses, could limit our ability to market our licensed products or develop new products, and could materially reduce our net sales and profitability. Competition for licenses could require us to pay licensors higher royalties and higher minimum guaranteed payments in order to obtain or retain attractive licenses, which could increase our expenses. In addition, licenses granted to other parties, whether or not exclusive, could limit our ability to market products, including products we currently market, which could cause our net sales and profitability to decline. We rely on foreign suppliers, primarily in the PRC, to manufacture most of our products, which subjects us to numerous international business risks that could increase our costs or disrupt the supply of our products. All of our products are manufactured by unaffiliated companies, most of which are in Eastern Asia, principally in the PRC. Approximately 74% of our dollar volume of purchases for our operations in 2011 were attributable to manufacturers in the PRC. The supplier accounting for the greatest dollar volume of purchases for our operations accounted for approximately 24% and the five largest suppliers accounted for approximately 48% in the aggregate during 2011. While we believe that there are many other manufacturing sources available for our product lines, difficulties encountered by one or several of our larger suppliers such as a fire, accident, natural disaster or an outbreak of illness (e.g., H1N1, SARS, avian or other flu) at one or more of their facilities, could halt or disrupt production at the affected facilities, delay the completion of orders, cause the cancellation of orders, delay the introduction of new products or cause us to miss a selling season applicable to some of our products. In addition, our international operations subject us to certain other risks (some of which are discussed in the following two risk factors and below), including: • economic and political instability; • restrictive actions by foreign governments; • changing international political relations; • labor availability and cost; • changes in laws, including tax or labor laws, or changes in regulations, treaties and policies; • changes in shipping costs and availability of sufficient cargo capacity; • changes in the availability and cost of raw materials; • greater difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights and weaker laws protecting intellectual property rights; • changes in import duties or import or export restrictions (including changes that could be imposed retroactively); • delays in shipping of product and unloading of product through ports, as well as timely rail/truck delivery to our warehouses and/or a customer’s warehouse; • complications in complying with the laws and policies of the United States affecting the importation of goods, including duties, quotas and taxes (See “Gross margin could be adversely affected by several factors” above); 12 Table of Contents • complications in complying with trade and foreign tax laws; and • the effects of terrorist activity, armed conflict and epidemics. Any of these risks could disrupt the supply of our products or increase our expenses. The costs of compliance with trade and foreign tax laws may increase our expenses and actual or alleged violations of such laws could result in enforcement actions or financial penalties that could result in substantial costs. In addition, the introduction or expansion of certain social programs in the PRC or otherwise will likely increase the cost of doing business for certain of our manufacturers, which would likely increase our manufacturing costs. With most of our manufacturers located in Eastern Asia, we must commit to production in advance of customer orders. If we fail to forecast customer or consumer demand accurately, we may encounter difficulties in filling customer orders on a timely basis or in liquidating excess inventories. Another recent development affecting many companies importing goods from the PRC is that it has become increasingly difficult to secure cargo capacity on a timely basis and at contracted prices. This may signal a trend of higher ocean freight transportation prices in coming periods. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Historically, labor in the PRC has been readily available at relatively low cost as compared to labor costs in North America. The PRC has experienced rapid social, political and economic change in recent years. There is no assurance labor will continue to be available in the PRC at costs consistent with historical levels or that changes in labor or other laws will not be enacted which would have a material adverse effect on product costs in the PRC. If our suppliers suffer labor shortages, this may result in future supply delays and disruptions and drive a substantial increase in labor costs. Any failure to fully comply with the laws of various Asian jurisdictions could cause potential liability and have other adverse effects. As previously disclosed, most recently in the September 10-Q, the Asia staffing and related payment practices utilized by our LaJobi subsidiary during 2010 may have violated a criminal law in Thailand that requires certain disclosures in connection with wire transfers into that country, and likely violated a criminal law in Hong Kong, in the category of a petty violation, that requires registration by foreign companies doing business in that country. In addition, LaJobi may have violated certain foreign regulatory, administrative and civil laws in connection with its previous payment and employment practices in Asia. However, we currently do not believe that such matters (individually or in the aggregate) will have a material adverse effect on the Company, although there can be no assurance that this will be the case, and we have not accrued any amounts to date in connection therewith. LaJobi has since discontinued the payment and staffing practices in question, and we believe our Asia operations are currently in compliance with applicable laws of the relevant Asian countries. However, there can be no assurance that applicable governmental authorities will not impose taxes or penalties or other measures with respect to such practices previously utilized by LaJobi, or that our licensors, vendors and/or retail partners will not take adverse action under applicable agreements with us (or otherwise) as a result of such potential compliance issues (although we are unaware of any such actions to date). Our operations outside the United States may be adversely affected by the operation of laws in those jurisdictions. Our operations in non-U.S. jurisdictions are in many cases subject to the laws of the jurisdictions in which they operate rather than United States law. Laws in some jurisdictions differ in significant respects from those in the United States, and these differences can affect our ability to react to changes in our business and our rights or ability to enforce rights may be different than would be expected under United States law. Moreover, enforcement of laws in some overseas jurisdictions can be inconsistent and unpredictable, which can affect both our ability to enforce our rights and to undertake activities that we believe are beneficial to our business. As a result, our ability to generate revenue and our expenses in non-United States jurisdictions may differ from what would be expected if United States law governed these operations. We may have difficulty establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls in the PRC and other Asian countries. The PRC and certain other Asian jurisdictions have historically had fewer or less developed management and financial reporting concepts and practices, as well as modern banking, computer, and other control systems. We may experience difficulty in hiring and/or retaining a sufficient number of qualified individuals in such jurisdictions. As a result, we may experience difficulty in establishing management, legal, and financial controls, collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account, and corporate records and instituting business practices that meet business standards such as those in the United States. 13 Table of Contents We may be unable to recover all or any portion of amounts owed to us by TRC as a result of the filing by TRC and its domestic subsidiaries of a voluntary petition for bankruptcy protection under the United States Bankruptcy Code (the “Code”) and the execution of a Settlement Agreement in connection therewith. On April 21, 2011, TRC, the acquirer of our former gift business, and TRC’s domestic subsidiaries, filed a voluntary petition under Chapter 7 of the Code in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of New Jersey. As a subordinated lien holder with respect to a note payable to KID from TRC in the original principal amount of $19.0 million, KID may be able to recover a portion of amounts owed thereunder from TRC’s estate to the extent assets remain available for such payment under the Code after payment in full of TRC’s senior lender. We may experience significant delays in obtaining any recovery of amounts owed to us as a secured creditor of TRC, however, and will likely obtain only limited recovery, if any recovery at all. In addition, Licensor may be able to recover a portion of the royalties owed to it under the License Agreement from TRC’s estate to the extent assets remain available under the Code for payment to TRC’s general unsecured creditors, although we believe that it is unlikely that unsecured creditors of TRC will realize any recovery. See Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the Settlement Agreement entered into by KID and the TRC debtors. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could increase our expenses. Our net sales are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars, except for a small amount of net sales denominated in U.K. pounds, Australian dollars and Euros. Our purchases of finished goods from Eastern Asian manufacturers are denominated in U.S. dollars. Expenses for these manufacturers are denominated in Chinese Yuan or other Eastern Asian currencies. As a result, any material increase in the value of the Yuan (or such other currencies) relative to the U.S. or Australian dollars or the U.K. pound would increase the prices at which we purchase finished goods and therefore could adversely affect our profitability. We are also subject to exchange rate risk relating to transfers of funds denominated in U.K. pounds, Australian dollars or Euros from our foreign subsidiaries to the United States. Trademark infringement or other intellectual property claims relating to our products could increase our costs. We have from time to time received claims of alleged infringement of intellectual property relating to certain of our products, and we may face similar claims in the future. The defense of intellectual property litigation can be both costly and disruptive of the time and resources of our management, even if the claim is without merit. We also may be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs to resolve intellectual property litigation. In addition, these claims could materially harm our brand name, reputation and operations. If our products are copied or “knocked-off,” our sales of these products may be materially reduced and our profitability may be negatively affected. Occasionally in the infant and juvenile industry, successful products are “knocked-off” or copied by competitors. While we strive to protect our intellectual property, we cannot guarantee that knock-offs will not occur or that they will not have a significant effect on our business. The costs incurred in protecting our intellectual property rights could be significant, and there is no assurance that we will be able to successfully protect our rights (see preceding risk factor). We may experience difficulties in integrating strategic acquisitions. As part of our growth strategy, we may pursue acquisitions that are consistent with our mission and enable us to leverage our competitive strengths. The integration of acquired companies and their operations into our operations involves a number of risks including: • possible failure to maintain customer, licensor and other relationships after the closing of the transaction of the acquired company; • the acquired business may experience losses which could adversely affect our profitability; • unanticipated costs relating to the integration of acquired businesses may increase our expenses; • difficulties in achieving planned cost-savings and synergies may increase our expenses or decrease our net sales; • diversion of management’s attention could impair their ability to effectively manage our business operations, and unanticipated management or operational problems or liabilities may adversely affect our profitability and financial condition; or 14 Table of Contents • possible failure to obtain any necessary consents to the transfer of licenses or other agreements of the acquired company. Additionally, we financed our acquisitions of Kids Line, LaJobi and CoCaLo with senior debt financing. This debt leverage, or additional leverage that may be incurred with any other future acquisitions, could adversely affect our profitability and limit our ability to capitalize on future business opportunities. Disruptions in our current information technology systems or difficulties in implementing our new information technology system could harm our business. System failure or malfunctioning in our information technology systems may result in disruption of operations and the inability to process transactions and could adversely affect our financial results. In addition, we commenced the implementation in December 2010 of a new consolidated information technology system for the Company, which we believe will provide greater efficiencies and greater reporting capabilities than those provided by the current separate systems in place across our individual infant and juvenile companies (which includes functionality enhancements beyond the original project concept). In connection with such implementation, we anticipate incurring aggregate costs of approximately $4.3 million, of which $1.8 million has been incurred as of December 31, 2011. We anticipate the balance of the costs to be incurred as follows: $1.5 million in 2012 and $1.0 million in 2013. Such costs have been financed to date with borrowings under our credit facility, and are intended to be so financed in the future. Our business may be subject to transitional difficulties as we replace the current systems. These difficulties may include disruption of our operations, loss of data, and the diversion of our management and key employees’ attention away from other business matters. The difficulties associated with any such implementation, and our failure to realize the anticipated benefits from the implementation, could harm our business, results of operations and cash flows. We cannot assure our shareholders that our share repurchase program will enhance long-term shareholder value, and share repurchases could increase the volatility of the price of our common stock and will diminish our cash availability. On November 8, 2011, our Board approved a share repurchase program. Under the program, we are authorized to repurchase shares of our common stock, in the open market or privately negotiated transactions, at times and prices considered appropriate by them depending upon prevailing market conditions and other corporate considerations, up to an aggregate purchase price of $10.0 million. The timing and actual number of shares repurchased depend on a variety of factors including the timing of open trading windows, price, corporate and regulatory requirements, and other market conditions, including limitations under our current credit agreement (which, in addition to limits on revolver availability and a stricter Consolidated Leverage Ratio for this purpose (0.25x less than the maximum then permitted), limits the aggregate amount that can be expended on share repurchases and dividends to $5.0 million until the LaJobi focused assessment has been concluded and all duty amounts required thereby have been paid). The program may be suspended or discontinued at any time without prior notice. Repurchases pursuant to our share repurchase program could affect our share price and increase its volatility. The existence of a share repurchase program could also cause our share price to be higher than it would be in the absence of such a program and could potentially reduce the market liquidity for our common stock. Additionally, repurchases under our share repurchase program will diminish our cash reserves and/or availability under our current revolver, which could impact our ability to pursue possible future strategic opportunities and acquisitions. There can be no assurance that any share repurchases will enhance shareholder value because the market price of our common stock may decline below the levels at which we repurchased such shares. Any failure to repurchase shares after we have announced our intention to do so may negatively impact our reputation and investor confidence in us and may negatively impact our stock price. Although our share repurchase program is intended to enhance long-term shareholder value, short-term stock price fluctuations could reduce the program’s effectiveness. To date, no repurchases have been made under the new program. Our hosted software and web-based services and web site may be subject to intentional disruption. Our hosted software and web-based services and web site may be subject to intentional disruption. Although we believe we have sufficient controls in place to prevent intentional disruptions, such as software viruses specifically designed to impede the performance of our software and web-based services, we may be affected by such efforts in the future. Further, despite the implementation of security measures, this infrastructure or other systems that we interface with, including the Internet and related systems, may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, hackers, improper employee or contractor access, programming errors, attacks by third parties or similar disruptive problems, resulting in the potential misappropriation of our proprietary information or interruptions of our services. Any compromise of our security, whether as a result of our own systems or systems that they interface with, could substantially disrupt our operations, harm our reputation and reduce demand for our services. 15 Table of Contents Unauthorized disclosure of confidential information provided to us by our customers or third parties, whether through breach of our secure network by an unauthorized party, employee theft or misuse, or otherwise, could harm our business. The difficulty of securely transmitting confidential information has been a significant issue when engaging in sensitive communications over the Internet. Our business relies on using the Internet to transmit confidential information. We believe that any well-publicized compromise of Internet security may deter companies from using the Internet for these purposes. Our services present the potential for embezzlement, identity theft, or other similar illegal behavior by our employees or subcontractors with respect to third parties. If there was a disclosure of confidential information, or if a third party were to gain unauthorized access to the confidential information we possess, our operations could be seriously disrupted, our reputation could be harmed and we could be subject to claims pursuant to our agreements with our customers or other liabilities. In addition, if this were to occur, we could be perceived to have facilitated or participated in illegal misappropriation of funds, documents, or data and therefore be subject to civil or criminal liability or regulatory action. A claim that is brought against us that is uninsured or under-insured could harm our business, financial conditions and results of operations. Even unsuccessful claims could result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources. Changes in our effective tax rate or changes in tax laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our future effective tax rate and the amount of our provision for income taxes may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: • adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; • increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes; • changes in available tax credits; • changes in share-based compensation expense; • changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; • changes in accounting standards or tax laws and regulations, or interpretations thereof; • the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; • the resolution of issues arising from uncertain positions and tax audits with various tax authorities; and • penalties and/or interest expense that we may be required to recognize on liabilities associated with uncertain tax positions. We are subject to taxation in various jurisdictions around the world. In preparing our financial statements, we calculate our effective income tax rate based on current tax laws and regulations and the estimated taxable income within each of these jurisdictions. Our effective income tax rate, however, may be higher due to numerous factors, including those enumerated above. A significantly higher effective income tax rate could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and liquidity. Officials in some of the jurisdictions in which we do business, including the United States, have proposed, or announced that they are reviewing tax increases and other revenue raising laws and regulations. Any resulting changes in tax laws or regulations could impose new restrictions, costs or prohibitions on our current practices and reduce our net income and adversely affect our cash flows. Increased costs associated with corporate governance compliance may affect our results of operations and financial condition, and may make it more difficult to attract and retain officers and directors. The Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 has required changes in some of our corporate governance and securities disclosure and compliance practices, and requires ongoing review of our internal control procedures. These developments have increased our legal compliance and financial reporting costs, and to the extent that we identify areas of our disclosures controls and procedures and/or internal controls requiring improvement (such as the material weakness in internal controls as of December 31, 2010 discussed in Item 9A herein), we may have to incur additional costs and divert management’s time and attention. Any such action could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, we have not yet fully determined the potential financial and compliance impact of the Dodd – Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act which was enacted in July 2010. As a public entity, the Company expects these new rules and regulations to increase compliance costs as we evaluate the implications of new rules and respond to new requirements. Delays or a failure to comply with the new laws, rules and regulations could result in enforcement actions, the assessment of other penalties and civil suits. These laws and regulations make it more expensive for us under indemnities provided by the Company to our officers and directors. In addition, these new rules and regulations may make it more difficult and expensive to obtain director and officer liability insurance in the future and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve as directors or as executive officers. 16 Table of Contents The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and investors in our common stock may experience substantial losses. The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and may continue to be volatile in the future. The trading price of our common stock could decline or fluctuate in response to a variety of factors, including: • changes in financial estimates of our net sales and operating results; • buy/sell recommendations by securities analysts; • the timing of announcements by us or our competitors concerning significant product developments, acquisitions, financial performance or other matters; • fluctuation in our quarterly operating results; • other economic or external factors; • our failure to meet the performance estimates of securities analysts or investors; • substantial sales of our common stock or the registration of substantial shares for sale; or • general stock market conditions. You may be unable to sell your stock at or above your purchase price. A limited number of our shareholders can exert significant influence over us. As reported in a Schedule 13D filed with SEC various investment funds and accounts managed by Prentice Capital Management, LP (“Prentice”) beneficially own approximately 20.4% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Prentice currently has the right to nominate two members of our Board of Directors. This share ownership would permit Prentice and other large shareholders to exert significant influence over the outcome of shareholder votes, including votes concerning the election of directors, by-law amendments, possible mergers, corporate control contests and other significant corporate transactions. We do not anticipate paying regular dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, so any short-term return on your investment will depend on the market price of our common stock. The covenants in our credit agreement limit our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. No assurance, therefore, may be given that there will be any future dividends declared or that future dividend declarations, if any, will be commensurate in amount or frequency with past dividends. Various restrictions in our charter documents, policies, New Jersey law and our credit agreement could prevent or delay a change in control of us which is not supported by our board of directors. We are subject to a number of provisions in our charter documents, policies, New Jersey law and our credit agreement that may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or change of control that a stockholder may consider favorable. These anti-takeover provisions include: • advance notice procedures for nominations of candidates for election as directors and for stockholder proposals to be considered at stockholders’ meetings; • the absence of cumulative voting in the election of directors; • covenants in our credit agreement restricting mergers, asset sales and similar transactions and a provision in our credit agreement that triggers an event of default upon certain acquisitions by a person or group of persons with beneficial ownership of a majority of our outstanding common stock; and 17 Table of Contents • the New Jersey Shareholders’ Protection Act. The New Jersey Shareholders’ Protection Act, as it pertains to us, prohibits, among other things, a merger, consolidation, specified asset sale, specified issuance or transfer of stock, or other similar business combination or disposition between the Company and any beneficial owner of 10% or more of our voting stock for a period of five years after such “interested” stockholder acquires 10% or more of our voting stock, unless the transaction is approved by our board of directors before such interested stockholder acquires 10% or more of our voting stock. In addition, no such transaction shall occur at any time unless: (1) the transaction is approved by our board of directors before the interested stockholder acquires 10% or more of our voting stock, (2) the transaction is approved by the holders of two-thirds of our voting stock excluding shares of our voting stock owned by such interested stockholder or (3) (A) the aggregate consideration received per share by stockholders in such transaction is at least equal to the higher of (i) the highest per share price (including any brokerage commissions, transfer taxes and soliciting dealer’s fees) paid by the interested stockholder (x) within the 5-year period preceding the announcement date of such transaction or (y) within the 5-year period preceding, or in the transaction, in which the stockholder became an interested stockholder, whichever is higher, in each case plus specified interest, less the value of dividends paid since that earliest date, up to the amount of such interest, and (ii) the market value per share of common stock on the announcement date of such transaction or on the date the interested stockholder became an interested stockholder, whichever is higher, plus specified interest, less the value of dividends paid since that date, up to the amount of such interest, (B) the consideration in the transaction received by stockholders is in cash or in the same form as the interested stockholder used to acquire the largest number of shares previously acquired by it, and (C) after the date the interested stockholder became an interested stockholder, and prior to the consummation of the transaction, such interested stockholder has not become the beneficial owner of additional shares of our stock, except (w) as part of the transaction which resulted in the interested stockholder becoming an interested stockholder, (x) by virtue of proportionate stock splits, stock dividends or other distributions not constituting a transaction covered by the New Jersey Shareholders Protection Act, (y) through a transaction meeting the conditions of paragraph (B) above and this paragraph (C) or (z) through purchase by the interested stockholder at any price, which, if that price had been paid in an otherwise permissible transaction under the New Jersey Shareholders’ Protection Act, the announcement date and consummation date of which were the date of that purchase, would have satisfied the requirements of paragraphs (A) and (B) above. We have granted stock options, stock appreciation rights and restricted stock units to certain management employees and directors as compensation which may depress our stock price and result in dilution to our common stockholders. As of December 31, 2011, options to purchase approximately 446,975 shares of our common stock were outstanding, 339,775 of which were vested; 787,690 stock appreciation rights were outstanding, 203,950 of which were vested; and 148,560 unvested restricted stock units were outstanding. Our Equity Incentive Plan allows for the granting of additional incentive stock options, non-qualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, stock units, restricted and non-restricted shares and/or dividend equivalent rights, up to a total of 1.5 million shares (plus additional shares in the event of specified circumstances). If the market price of our common stock is higher than the exercise price of outstanding vested options, holders of those securities may exercise their options and sell the common stock acquired upon exercise of such options in the open market. If the market price of our common stock is higher than the exercise price of outstanding vested stock appreciation rights, holders of those securities may exercise their rights and sell the common stock acquired (to the extent such stock appreciation rights are settled in common stock) in the open market. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market by holders of exercised vested options, vested restricted stock, vested stock appreciation rights and/or vested restricted stock units settled in or exercised for stock may depress the prevailing market price for our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the future sale of our equity securities. Additionally, if the holders of outstanding vested options exercise those options (or if (i) vested stock appreciation rights are exercised and settled in common stock, or (ii) vested restricted stock units are settled in common stock), our common stockholders will incur dilution. The exercise price of all common stock options and stock appreciation rights is subject to adjustment upon stock dividends, splits and combinations, as well as anti-dilution adjustments as set forth in the relevant award agreement. See Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Terrorist attacks and threats may disrupt our operations and negatively impact our revenues, costs and stock price. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 in the U.S., the U.S. response to those attacks and the resulting decline in consumer confidence had a substantial adverse effect on the U.S. economy. Any similar future events may disrupt our operations directly or indirectly by affecting the operations of our customers. In addition, these events have had and may continue to have an adverse impact on the U.S. economy in general and on consumer confidence and spending in particular, which could harm our revenues. Any new terrorist events or threats could have a negative effect on the U.S. and world financial markets generally, which could reduce the price of our common stock and may limit the capital resources available to us and others with whom we conduct business. If any of these events occur, they could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and could result in increased volatility in the market price of our common stock. 18 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS On August 9, 2011, the Company received a comment letter from the Staff with respect to, among other filings, its 2010 10-K and subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, to which the Company responded on September 23, 2011. The Company received a follow-up letter from the Staff on October 6, 2011, to which the Company responded on October 28, 2011, and on November 15, 2011 (the “Current Letter”), to which the Company responded on December 15, 2011. The Current Letter issued comments, among other things, requesting: (i) that as a result of the impact of the charges recorded with respect to anticipated LaJobi anti-dumping duties and related interest on prior periods, the Company restate the financial statements that were included in the 2010 10-K to reflect the recording of such amounts in the respective periods to which such liabilities relate; and (ii) an explanation of the Company’s determination that the impact on prior periods of the non-LaJobi customs matters were immaterial to previously reported financial statements. The Company believes it has satisfactorily responded to all of the Staff’s comments, (through its most recent response letter and subsequent discussions with the Staff), including, but not limited to, its agreement to restate the Prior Financial Statements in this 2011 10-K (as described in the Explanatory Note above and Note 19 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements) to reflect the recording of both anticipated LaJobi anti-dumping duty (and related interest) payment requirements, and anticipated Kids Line/CoCaLo customs duty (and related interest) payment requirements, in the respective periods to which such liabilities relate. In the Current Letter, however, the Staff reserved the right to make further comments, and as of the date of the filing of this 2011 10-K, we have not received a letter from the Staff stating that it has completed its review. 