ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below constitute the material risks pertaining to our business. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occurs, our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. In such cases, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. Our net sales and profitability depend on our ability to continue to conceive, design and market products that appeal to consumers. The introduction of new products is critical in our industry and to our growth strategy. A significant percentage of our product line is replaced each year with new products. Our business depends on our ability to continue to conceive, design and market new products and upon continuing market acceptance of our product offerings. Rapidly changing consumer preferences and trends make it difficult to predict how long consumer demand for our existing products will continue or which new products will be successful. Our current products may not continue to be popular or new products that we introduce may not achieve adequate consumer acceptance for us to recover development, manufacturing, marketing and other costs. A decline in consumer demand for our products, our failure to develop new products on a timely basis in anticipation of changing consumer preferences or the failure of our new products to achieve and sustain consumer acceptance could reduce our net sales and profitability. In addition, changes in customer preferences leave us vulnerable to an increased risk of inventory obsolescence. Thus, our ability to manage our inventories properly is an important factor in our operations. Inventory shortages can adversely affect the timing of shipments to customers and diminish sales and brand loyalty. Conversely, excess inventories can result in lower gross margins due to the excessive discounts and markdowns that might be necessary to reduce inventory levels. Our inability to effectively manage our inventory could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Gross margin could be adversely affected by several factors. Gross margin was adversely affected in 2012 and may be adversely affected in the future by increases in vendor costs (including as a result of increases in the cost of raw materials, labor or other costs or fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates), excess inventory, obsolescence charges, changes in shipment volume or in-bound freight rates, price competition and changes in channels of distribution or in the mix of products sold. For example, increased costs in the PRC, primarily for labor, raw materials, and the impact of certain tax laws, as well as the appreciation of the Chinese Yuan against the U.S. dollar, have at times, including during 2012, negatively impacted our gross margins. We currently expect PRC labor and other costs to continue to rise in the near term. In addition, pressure from major retailers, primarily as a result of continued challenging economic conditions, to offer additional mark-downs and other credits or price concessions to clear existing inventory and secure new product placements, or to accept additional returns, have and may continue to negatively impact our margins. Economic conditions, such as rising fuel prices and currency exchange fluctuations, may also adversely impact our margins. 6 Table of Contents Our Kids Line and CoCaLo businesses use significant quantities of cotton, either in the form of cotton fabric or cotton-polyester fabric. Cotton is subject to ongoing price fluctuations because it is an agricultural product impacted by changing weather patterns, disease and other factors, such as supply and demand considerations, both domestically and internationally. In addition, increased oil prices affect key components of the raw material prices in many of our products. Significant increases in the prices of cotton or oil have and could adversely affect our gross margins and our operations. In addition, charges pertaining to anti-dumping duties that we anticipate will be owed by our LaJobi subsidiary to U.S. Customs, and charges pertaining to customs duties we anticipate will be owed by our Kids Line and CoCaLo subsidiaries to U.S. Customs have affected gross margins and net income for specified periods. Any amounts owned in excess of the accruals recorded will adversely affect our gross margin and net income for the period(s) in which such amounts are recorded and could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. See Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the LaJobi anti-dumping duty matters and the Kids Line/CoCaLo customs duty matters, including the possibility of the imposition of additional fines, penalties or other measures from U.S. Customs or other governmental authorities, and settlement submission made to U.S. Customs in connection therewith. Our business is dependent on several large customers. The continued success of our infant and juvenile businesses depends on our ability to continue to sell our products to several large mass market retailers. In particular, Toys “R” Us, Inc. and Babies “R” Us, Inc. (considered together), Wal-Mart and Target accounted for approximately 31.3%, 17.8% and 9.6%, respectively, of our consolidated gross sales for the 2012 calendar year. While the consolidation of our customer base may provide certain benefits to us, such as potentially more efficient product distribution and other decreased costs of sales and distribution, we typically do not have long-term contracts with our customers and our agreements with these customers do not require them to purchase any specific number or amount of our products. As a result, agreements with respect to pricing, returns, cooperative advertising or special promotions or allowances, among other things, are subject to periodic negotiation with each customer. No assurance can be given that these or other customers will continue to do business with us or that they will maintain their historical levels of business, and the loss of one or more of the foregoing customers or one or more of our other large customers, or a decrease in historical levels of business of any such customers, could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. See Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the Company’s customers who account for a significant percentage of the Company’s gross sales (and changes in the volume of business conducted with such customers) over the last three years. In addition, our success depends upon the continuing willingness of large retailers to purchase and provide shelf space for our products. Our access to shelf space at retailers for our products may be reduced by store closings, consolidation among these retailers, competition from other products or stricter requirements for infant and juvenile products by retailers that we may not be able to meet. An adverse change in our relationship with, or the financial viability of, one or more of our large customers could reduce our net sales and profitability. Competition in our markets could reduce our net sales and profitability. We operate in highly competitive markets. Certain of our competitors have greater brand recognition and greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have. In addition, we may face competition from new participants in our markets because the infant and juvenile product industry has limited barriers to entry. Many of our principal customers are large mass merchandisers. The rapid growth of these large mass merchandisers, together with changes in consumer shopping patterns, have contributed to the formation of dominant multi-category retailers that have strong negotiating power with suppliers. Current trends among retailers include fostering high levels of competition among suppliers, demanding innovative new products and requiring suppliers to maintain or reduce product prices and deliver products with shorter lead times. Other trends are for retailers to import products directly from factory sources and to source and sell products under their own private label brands that compete with our products. 7 Table of Contents The combination of these market influences has created an intensely competitive environment in which our principal customers continuously evaluate which product suppliers to use, resulting in downward pricing pressures and the need for consumer-meaningful brands, the ongoing introduction and commercialization of innovative new products, continuing improvements in customer service, and the maintenance of strong relationships with large, high-volume purchasers. We also face the risk of changes in the strategy or structure of our major retailer customers, such as overall store and inventory reductions and retailer consolidation. The resulting risks include possible loss of sales, reduced profitability and limited ability to recover cost increases through price increases. We also experience price competition for our products, competition for shelf space at retailers and competition for licenses, all of which may increase in the future. If we cannot compete successfully in the future, our net sales and profitability will likely decline. To compete successfully, we must develop and maintain consumer-meaningful brands. Our ability to compete successfully also depends increasingly on our ability to develop and maintain consumer-meaningful brands so that our retailer customers will need our products to meet consumer demand. The development and maintenance of such brands requires significant investment in brand building and marketing initiatives, although any such investment may not deliver the anticipated results. The state of the economy may impact our business. Our business and results of operations are affected by international, national and regional economic conditions. The United States and many other international economies experienced a major recession in recent periods, with continuing effects for our industry. The end-users of our products are individual consumers. A hesitant recovery in the U.S economy, high unemployment, volatile capital markets, depressed housing prices and tight consumer lending practices have resulted in considerable negative pressure on consumer spending and consumer confidence, which we believe has resulted in lower birth rates and could result in reduced demand for our products. In the event that current economic conditions worsen, current and potential consumers of our products may be inclined to delay their purchases, and further tightening of credit markets may restrict our customers’ (both direct and indirect) ability and willingness to make purchases. In addition, continuing adverse global economic conditions in our markets could result in increased price competition for our products, increased risk of excess and obsolete inventories, increased risk in the collectability of accounts receivable from our direct customers, increased risk in potential reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable, delays in signing or failing to sign direct customer contracts or signing customer agreements at reduced purchase levels, and limitations in the capital resources available to us and others with whom we conduct business. Any of the foregoing effects could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition and could adversely affect our stock price. We are currently party to litigation and other matters that could be costly to defend and distracting to management, and if decided against us, could have a material adverse effect on our business. As a result of certain U.S. Customs matters described elsewhere in this Form 10-K, the Company is party to several disputes, including: (i) an arbitration proceeding with Lawrence Bivona in which Mr. Bivona seeks payment of certain earnout consideration in the amount of $15 million, as well as damages in excess of an additional $10 million for alleged wrongful termination and defamation; (ii) a putative class action lawsuit, which has been dismissed with prejudice although the plaintiffs have filed a notice of appeal, and a putative shareholder derivative action, which has been dismissed without prejudice although the plaintiffs are pursuing a books and records inspection demand; and (iii) certain investigations by the SEC and the United States Attorney’s Office for the District of New Jersey. An adverse decision in the arbitration that requires any significant payment by us to Mr. Bivona or the LaJobi seller, or unfavorable results in the shareholder lawsuits or governmental investigations, could result in a default under our credit agreement and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, although the Company has made various submissions to U.S. Customs with respect to anticipated anti-dumping and other customs duties (described in Note 17), U.S. Customs has not yet responded to such submissions, and there can be no assurance that the Company’s proposals with respect to the timing and amount of payments therefor will be accepted, nor can there be any assurance that the Company will not be subject to additional fines, penalties or other measures from U.S. Customs or other governmental authorities. See Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a detailed description of the Customs matters and related litigations, arbitration and contingencies, Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of our new credit facility, including a discussion of conditions precedent to the payment of any Customs duties or LaJobi earnout payments, and the financial covenants applicable to the Company, and Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources” for a discussion of the potential impact of any such payment on our compliance with such financial covenants. Also see “Inability to maintain compliance with the bank covenants” below. With respect to the governmental investigations described above, as well as the investigation by the staff of the Consumer Product Safety Commission into whether LaJobi timely complied with certain reporting requirements described in Item 3, “Legal Proceedings”, we cannot provide assurance that we will not be subject to adverse publicity, fines or penalties, as well as other sanctions or other contingent liabilities or adverse customer or market reactions in connection with their resolution, which could harm our business and financial condition, and in addition, we are currently unable to predict the duration or resources required in connection therewith. 8 Table of Contents The Company is also party to other litigations, including (i) a wages and hours putative class action and (ii) a complaint alleging the wrongful termination of an agreement for the distribution of Sassy products in Australia. Additional litigation may be initiated against us based on the alleged items at issue in the complaints described above, or based on the previously-disclosed restatement of specified historical financial statements (described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011). We cannot predict the final outcome of such lawsuits or the likelihood that further proceedings will be instituted against us. Although we believe that the claims in the putative class action and putative shareholder derivative action are covered by insurance and that the applicable deductible has been satisfied, there can be no assurance that this is the case. Accordingly, the cost of defending against such lawsuits, other lawsuits pending against the Company, or any future lawsuits or proceedings may be high and, in any event, these legal proceedings may result in the diversion of our management’s time and attention away from our business. In the event that there is an adverse ruling in any legal proceeding, we may be required to make payments to third parties that could materially harm our business, financial results or reputation. See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” for more detail with respect to these and other material legal proceedings to which the Company or its subsidiaries are parties. Our debt covenants may affect our liquidity or limit our ability to complete acquisitions, incur debt, make investments, sell assets, merge or complete other significant transactions. Our current credit agreement includes provisions that place limitations on a number of our activities, including our ability to: incur additional debt; create liens on our assets or make guarantees; make certain investments or loans; pay dividends; repurchase our common stock; dispose of or sell assets; or enter into acquisitions, mergers or similar transactions. These covenants could restrict our ability to pursue opportunities to expand our business operations. In addition, substantially all cash, other than cash set aside for the benefit of employees (and certain other exceptions), will be swept and applied to repayment of amounts outstanding under the Credit Agreement. Inability to maintain compliance with the bank covenants. Our ability to maintain compliance with the financial and other covenants in our current credit agreement is dependent upon, among other things, our ability to continue to execute our business model and our ability to generate cash from operations, which, in turn, is subject in part to prevailing economic and competitive conditions. See “The state of the economy may impact our business” above and the other factors discussed in this “Risk Factors” section. If an event of default in such covenants occurs and is continuing, among other things, the lenders may accelerate the loans, declare the commitments thereunder to be terminated, seize collateral or take other actions of secured creditors. If the loans are accelerated or commitments terminated, we could face substantial liquidity problems and may be forced to dispose of material assets or operations, seek to obtain equity capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. Such alternative measures may not be available or successful. Also, our bank covenants may limit our ability to dispose of material assets or operations or to restructure or refinance our indebtedness. Even if we are able to restructure or refinance our indebtedness, the economic terms may not be favorable to us. In addition, an event of default under our credit agreement could result in a cross-default under certain license agreements that we maintain. All of the foregoing could have serious consequences to our financial condition and results of operations and could cause us to become bankrupt or insolvent. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under the sections captioned “Liquidity and Capital Resources” and “Debt Financing”, as well as Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 9 Table of Contents Increases in interest rates may increase our interest expense and adversely affect our profitability and cash flows. Loans under our credit agreement bear interest at a specified 30-day LIBOR rate (subject to a minimum LIBOR floor of 0.50%), plus a margin of 4.0% per annum with respect to the Tranche A Revolver and a margin of 11.25% per annum with respect to the Tranche A-1 Revolver (each as defined in Note 7 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). At December 31, 2012, the applicable interest rates were 4.5% for loans under the Tranche A Revolver and 11.75% for loans under the Tranche A-1 Revolver. Increases in the interest rates under our credit agreement will increase our interest expense, which could harm our profitability and cash flow. Deviations from expected results of operations and/or expected cash requirements could result in a default under our credit agreement and/or adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our principal sources of liquidity are cash flows from operations, cash and cash equivalents and availability under our bank facility. Our operating activities generally provide sufficient cash to fund our working capital requirements and, together with borrowings under our bank facility, are expected to be sufficient to fund our operating needs and capital requirements for at least the next twelve months (including expected customs duty assessments and related interest), based on current assumptions regarding the amount and timing of such expenditures and anticipated cash flows. Although we currently expect to remain in compliance with our bank covenants for at least the next twelve months, based on our current expectations, any significant deviation in actual results from our expected results of operations, any significant deviation in the amounts or timing of material expenditures from current estimates, or any significant LaJobi earnout payments, significant business or product acquisitions, or other significant unanticipated expenses or accruals (including customs duty assessments and related interest in excess of current accruals, any related penalties, unanticipated financial statement accruals and/or unanticipated judgments in pending litigations/arbitrations) could result in a default (including of the minimum Adjusted EBITDA requirement) under our credit agreement, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and/or may result in the need for additional debt or equity financing. See “Inability to maintain compliance with the bank covenants” and “We are currently party to litigation and other matters that could be costly to defend and distracting to management, and if decided against us, could have a material adverse effect on our business” above. See also “Debt Financing – New Credit Agreement” in Item 7 for restrictions under our new credit agreement with respect to the payment of any customs duty and LaJobi earnout consideration, as well as the financial covenants applicable to the Company, and “Liquidity and Capital Resources” for a discussion of the potential impact of any such payment on our compliance with such financial covenants. More generally, if actual events, circumstances, outcomes and amounts differ from judgments, assumptions and estimates made or used in determining the amount of certain assets (including the amount of recoverability of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, valuation allowances for receivables, inventories and deferred income tax assets), liabilities (including accruals for income taxes and liabilities) and or other items reflected in our consolidated financial statements, it could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Further potential disruptions in the credit markets may adversely affect the availability and cost of short-term funds for liquidity requirements and our ability to meet long-term commitments, which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. If sufficient internal funds are not available from our operations, we may be required to further rely on the banking and credit markets to meet our financial commitments and short-term liquidity needs. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets, as were experienced during 2008 and much of 2009, could adversely affect our ability to draw on our bank revolving credit facility. Our access to funds under our credit facility is dependent on the ability of the banks that are parties to such facility to meet their funding commitments. Those banks may not be able to meet their funding commitments to us if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests from us and other borrowers within a short period of time. 10 Table of Contents Longer term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives, or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to liquidity needed for our business. Any disruption could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. Such measures could include deferring capital expenditures, and reducing or eliminating discretionary uses of cash. Product liability, product recalls and other claims relating to the use of our products could increase our costs. We face product liability risks relating to the use of our products. We also must comply with a variety of product safety and product testing regulations. In particular, our products are subject to, among other statutes and regulations, the Consumer Product Safety Act, the Federal Hazardous Substances Act, or the FHSA, and the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act, or the CPSIA, which empower the Consumer Product Safety Commission, or the CPSC, to take action against hazards presented by consumer products, including adjudication and promulgation of regulations and uniform safety standards. With expanded authority under the CPSIA, the CPSC has and continues to adopt new regulations for safety and products testing that apply to substantially all of our products. These new regulations have and are expected to further significantly increase the regulatory requirements governing the manufacture and sale of infant and juvenile products and increase the potential penalties for noncompliance with applicable regulations. The CPSC has the authority to exclude from the market and recall certain consumer products that are found to be potentially hazardous. Consumer product safety laws also exist in some states and cities within the United States and in Canada, Australia and Europe, as well as certain other countries. While we take the steps we believe are necessary to comply with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance in the future, or that rapidly changing safety standards will not render unsaleable products that complied with previously-applicable safety standards. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, or if we face product liability claims, we may be subject to damage awards or settlement costs that exceed any available insurance coverage, we may incur significant costs in complying with recall requirements, and our financial results could be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, concerns about potential liability or potential future changes in product safety regulations may lead us to recall voluntarily or otherwise discontinue selling selected products which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Recalls, post-manufacture repairs of our products, or product liability claims could also harm our reputation, increase our costs or reduce our net sales. Governments and regulatory agencies in the markets where we manufacture and sell products may enact additional regulations relating to product safety and consumer protection in the future or take other actions that may adversely impact infant and juvenile products, including the categories of products that we produce and sell. In addition, one or more of our customers might require changes or impose their own standards for our products, such as the non-use of certain materials or a refusal to sell certain products. Complying with existing or any such additional regulations or requirements could impose increased costs on our business. Similarly, increased penalties for non-compliance could subject us to greater expense in the event any of our products were found to not comply with such regulations. Furthermore, substantially all of our licenses give the licensor the right to terminate the license agreement if any products marketed under the license are subject to a product liability claim, recall or similar violations of product safety regulations or if we breach covenants relating to the safety of the products or their compliance with product safety regulations. A termination of a license could adversely affect our net sales. Even if a product liability claim is without merit, the claim could harm our reputation and divert management’s attention and resources from our business. See also Item 3, Legal Proceedings – Consumer Product Safety Commission Staff Investigation. If we lose key personnel we may not be able to achieve our objectives. We are dependent on the continued efforts of various members of senior management, as well as senior executives of several of our subsidiaries. If for any reason, these or other key members of management do not continue to be active in management, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to attract and retain senior executives or other personnel necessary for the continued success of our business. 11 Table of Contents If additional intangible assets become impaired we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. We test goodwill and our other intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis or on an interim basis if an event occurs that might reduce the fair value of the asset below its carrying value. We conduct testing for impairment during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. There were no impairments to intangible assets recorded during 2012. In the fourth quarter of 2011, we recorded non-cash impairment charges of approximately: (i) $11.7 million to goodwill, constituting all of the goodwill we were required to record as of December 31, 2010 in connection with the potential LaJobi earnout consideration (and a related finder’s fee) we were required to record as a result of the previously-disclosed restatement of specified historical financial statements; (ii) $9.9 million for the impairment of the LaJobi trade names; and (iii) $19.0 million for the impairment of our Kids Line customer relationships. See Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We will continue to evaluate the recoverability of the carrying amount of our intangible assets on an ongoing basis, and we may incur additional impairment charges, which could be substantial and could adversely affect our financial results. Impairment assessments inherently involve judgment as to assumptions about expected future cash flows and the impact of market conditions on those assumptions. Future events and changing market conditions may impact our assumptions as to prices, costs, holding periods or other factors that may result in changes in our estimates of future cash flows. Factors that might reduce the fair value of an intangible asset below its carrying value include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates in our industry. We may not be able to collect outstanding accounts receivable from our major retail customers. Certain of our retail customers purchase large quantities of our products on credit, which may cause a concentration of accounts receivable among some of our largest customers. Our profitability may be harmed if one or more of our largest customers were unable or unwilling to pay these accounts receivable when due or demand credits or other concessions for products they are unable to sell or for other reasons. See “Recent Developments” under Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for a discussion of a disputed deduction taken in March 2013 by a large customer from outstanding amounts due. Competition for licenses could increase our licensing costs or limit our ability to market products. We market a significant portion of our products through licenses with other parties. Sales of licensed products represented 54% of our sales in 2012. These licenses are generally limited in scope and duration and generally authorize the sale of specific licensed products on an exclusive or nonexclusive basis. Our license agreements often require us to make minimum guaranteed royalty payments that may exceed the amount we are able to generate from actual sales of the licensed products. Any termination of or failure to renew our significant licenses, or inability to develop and enter into new licenses, could limit our ability to market our licensed products or develop new products, and could materially reduce our net sales and profitability. Competition for licenses could require us to pay licensors higher royalties and higher minimum guaranteed payments in order to obtain or retain attractive licenses, which could increase our expenses. In addition, licenses granted to other parties, whether or not exclusive, could limit our ability to market products, including products we currently market, which could cause our net sales and profitability to decline. We rely on foreign suppliers, primarily in the PRC, to manufacture most of our products, which subjects us to numerous international business risks that could increase our costs or disrupt the supply of our products. All of our products are manufactured by unaffiliated companies, most of which are in Eastern Asia, principally in the PRC. Approximately 74% of our dollar volume of purchases for our operations in 2012 were attributable to manufacturers in the PRC. The supplier accounting for the greatest dollar volume of purchases for our operations accounted for approximately 19% and the five largest suppliers accounted for approximately 44% in the aggregate during 2012. While we believe that there are many other manufacturing sources available for our product lines, difficulties encountered by one or several of our larger suppliers such as a fire, accident, natural disaster or an outbreak of illness (e.g., H1N1, SARS, avian or other flu) at one or more of their facilities, could halt or disrupt production at the affected facilities, delay the completion of orders, cause the cancellation of orders, delay the introduction of new products or cause us to miss a selling season applicable to some of our products. In addition, our international operations subject us to certain other risks (some of which are discussed in the following two risk factors and below), including: • economic and political instability; • restrictive actions by foreign governments; 12 Table of Contents • changing international political relations; • labor availability and cost; • changes in laws, including tax or labor laws, or changes in regulations, treaties and policies; • changes in shipping costs and availability of sufficient cargo capacity; • changes in the availability and cost of raw materials; • greater difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights and weaker laws protecting intellectual property rights; • changes in import duties or import or export restrictions (including changes that could be imposed retroactively); • delays in shipping of product and unloading of product through ports, as well as timely rail/truck delivery to our warehouses and/or a customer’s warehouse; • complications in complying with the laws and policies of the United States affecting the importation of goods, including duties, quotas and taxes (See “Gross margin could be adversely affected by several factors” above); • complications in complying with trade and foreign tax laws, and other laws of applicable foreign jurisdictions; • the effects of terrorist activity, armed conflict and epidemics. Any of these risks could disrupt the supply of our products or increase our expenses. The costs of compliance with trade and foreign tax laws may increase our expenses and actual or alleged violations of such laws could result in enforcement actions or financial penalties that could result in substantial costs. In addition, the introduction or expansion of certain social programs in the PRC or otherwise will likely increase the cost of doing business for certain of our manufacturers, which would likely increase our manufacturing costs. With most of our manufacturers located in Eastern Asia, we must commit to production in advance of customer orders. If we fail to forecast customer or consumer demand accurately, we may encounter difficulties in filling customer orders on a timely basis or in liquidating excess inventories. Another recent development affecting many companies importing goods from the PRC is that it has become increasingly difficult to secure cargo capacity on a timely basis and at contracted prices. This may signal a trend of higher ocean freight transportation prices in coming periods. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Historically, labor in the PRC has been readily available at relatively low cost as compared to labor costs in North America. The PRC has experienced rapid social, political and economic change in recent years. There is no assurance labor will continue to be available in the PRC at costs consistent with historical levels or that changes in labor or other laws will not be enacted which would have a material adverse effect on product costs in the PRC. If our suppliers suffer labor shortages, this may result in future supply delays and disruptions and drive a substantial increase in labor costs. Our operations outside the United States may be adversely affected by the operation of laws in those jurisdictions. Our operations in non-U.S. jurisdictions are in many cases subject to the laws of the jurisdictions in which they operate rather than United States law. Laws in some jurisdictions differ in significant respects from those in the United States, and these differences can affect our ability to react to changes in our business and our rights or ability to enforce rights or conduct our business may be different than would be expected under United States law. Moreover, enforcement of laws in some overseas jurisdictions can be inconsistent and unpredictable, which can affect both our ability to enforce our rights and to undertake activities that we believe are beneficial to our business. As a result, our ability to generate revenue and our expenses in non-United States jurisdictions may differ from what would be expected if United States law governed these operations. 13 Table of Contents We may have difficulty establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls in the PRC and other Asian countries. The PRC and certain other Asian jurisdictions have historically had fewer or less developed management and financial reporting concepts and practices, as well as modern banking, computer, and other control systems. We may experience difficulty in hiring and/or retaining a sufficient number of qualified individuals in such jurisdictions. As a result, we may experience difficulty in establishing management, legal, and financial controls, collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account, and corporate records and instituting business practices that meet business standards such as those in the United States. We may be unable to recover all or any portion of amounts owed to us by TRC as a result of the filing by TRC and its domestic subsidiaries of a voluntary petition for bankruptcy protection under the United States Bankruptcy Code (the “Code”) and the execution of a Settlement Agreement in connection therewith. On April 21, 2011, TRC, the acquirer of our former gift business, and TRC’s domestic subsidiaries, filed a voluntary petition under Chapter 7 of the Code in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of New Jersey. As a subordinated lien holder with respect to a note payable to KID from TRC in the original principal amount of $19.0 million, KID may be able to recover a portion of amounts owed thereunder from TRC’s estate to the extent assets remain available for such payment under the Code after payment in full of TRC’s senior lender. We may experience significant delays in obtaining any recovery of amounts owed to us as a secured creditor of TRC, however, and will likely obtain only limited recovery, if any recovery at all. See Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the Settlement Agreement entered into by KID and the TRC debtors. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could increase our expenses. Our net sales are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars, except for a small amount of net sales denominated in U.K. pounds (through the cessation of our operations in the U.K. as of December 2012), Australian dollars and Euros. Our purchases of finished goods from Eastern Asian manufacturers are denominated in U.S. dollars. Expenses for these manufacturers are denominated in Chinese Yuan or other Eastern Asian currencies. As a result, any material increase in the value of the Yuan (or such other currencies) relative to the U.S. or Australian dollars or the U.K. pound would increase the prices at which we purchase finished goods and therefore could adversely affect our profitability. We are also subject to exchange rate risk relating to transfers of funds denominated in Australian dollars or Euros from our foreign subsidiaries to the United States. Trademark infringement or other intellectual property claims relating to our products could increase our costs. We have from time to time received claims of alleged infringement of intellectual property relating to certain of our products, and we may face similar claims in the future. The defense of intellectual property litigation can be both costly and disruptive of the time and resources of our management, even if the claim is without merit. We also may be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs to resolve intellectual property litigation. In addition, these claims could materially harm our brand name, reputation and operations. 14 Table of Contents If our products are copied or “knocked-off,” our sales of these products may be materially reduced and our profitability may be negatively affected. Occasionally in the infant and juvenile industry, successful products are “knocked-off” or copied by competitors. While we strive to protect our intellectual property, we cannot guarantee that knock-offs will not occur or that they will not have a significant effect on our business. The costs incurred in protecting our intellectual property rights could be significant, and there is no assurance that we will be able to successfully protect our rights (see preceding risk factor). New regulations related to conflict minerals may force us to incur additional expenses, may make our supply chain more complex and may result in damage to our relationships with customers. On August 22, 2012, under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, or the Dodd-Frank Act, the SEC adopted new requirements for companies that manufacture or contract to manufacture products that contain certain minerals and metals, known as conflict minerals. Some of these conflict minerals are commonly used in many products, and may be used in some of our products. These requirements will generally require companies to investigate, disclose and report annually whether or not such metals, if used in the manufacture of the Company’s products, originated from the Democratic Republic of Congo or adjoining countries. The implementation of these new requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of minerals used in the manufacture of certain of our products. In addition, we may incur additional costs to comply with the disclosure requirements, including costs related to determining the source of any of the relevant minerals and metals used in our products. Since our supply chain is complex, we may not be able to ascertain the origins for these minerals and metals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement, which may harm our reputation. We may also face difficulties in satisfying customers who may require that our products be certified as conflict mineral free, which could harm our relationships with these customers and lead to a loss of revenue. These new requirements could limit the pool of suppliers that can provide conflict-free minerals, and we may be unable to obtain conflict-free minerals at competitive prices, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our manufacturing operations and our profitability. We may experience difficulties in integrating strategic acquisitions. As part of our growth strategy, we may pursue acquisitions that are consistent with our mission and enable us to leverage our competitive strengths. The integration of acquired companies and their operations into our operations involves a number of risks including: • possible failure to maintain customer, licensor and other relationships after the closing of the transaction of the acquired company; • the acquired business may experience losses which could adversely affect our profitability; • unanticipated costs relating to the integration of acquired businesses may increase our expenses; • difficulties in achieving planned cost-savings and synergies may increase our expenses or decrease our net sales; • diversion of management’s attention could impair their ability to effectively manage our business operations, and unanticipated management or operational problems or liabilities may adversely affect our profitability and financial condition; or • possible failure to obtain any necessary consents to the transfer of licenses or other agreements of the acquired company. Additionally, we financed our acquisitions of Kids Line, LaJobi and CoCaLo with senior debt financing. This debt leverage, or additional leverage that may be incurred with any other future acquisitions, could adversely affect our profitability and limit our ability to capitalize on future business opportunities. 15 Table of Contents Disruptions in our current information technology systems or difficulties in implementing our new information technology system could harm our business. System failure or malfunctioning in our information technology systems may result in disruption of operations and the inability to process transactions and could adversely affect our financial results. In addition, we commenced the implementation in December 2010 of a new consolidated information technology system for the Company, which we believe will provide greater efficiencies and greater reporting capabilities than those provided by the current separate systems in place across our individual infant and juvenile companies (which includes functionality enhancements beyond the original project concept). In connection with such implementation, we anticipate incurring aggregate costs of approximately $3.4 million, of which $3.1 million has been incurred as of December 31, 2012. We anticipate the balance of the costs ($0.3 million) to be incurred in 2013. Such costs have been financed to date with borrowings under our credit facility, and are intended to be so financed in the future. Our business may be subject to transitional difficulties as we replace the current systems. These difficulties may include disruption of our operations, loss of data, and the diversion of our management and key employees’ attention away from other business matters. The difficulties associated with any such implementation, and our failure to realize the anticipated benefits from the implementation, could harm our business, results of operations and cash flows. If we fail to maintain compliance with the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange, our common stock may be delisted therefrom. Our common stock is currently listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). On December 14, 2012, the NYSE notified the Company (the “Notice”) that we had fallen below the continued listing standard that requires average market capitalization to not fall below $50.0 million for a 30 trading-day period or total stockholders’ equity of at least $50.0 million. The Company fell below such standard primarily as a result of the previously disclosed $45.0 million increase in the Company’s non-cash valuation allowance for deferred tax assets recorded during the quarter ended September 30, 2012, which reduced the Company’s stockholders’ equity to $40.5 million (the Company’s market capitalization was already below $50 million). In accordance with procedures of the NYSE, we submitted to the NYSE a plan that we believe demonstrates our ability to attain compliance, within 18 months, with the continued listing standards of the NYSE. Such plan was accepted by the NYSE on March 14, 2013. Accordingly, our common stock will continue to be listed on the NYSE during the 18-month cure period, subject to the compliance with other NYSE continued listing standards and quarterly review by the NYSE staff for compliance with this plan. If we do not make progress consistent with the plan during the plan period, we will be subject to delisting proceedings. Delisting would have an adverse effect on the liquidity of our common stock and, as a result, the market price for our common stock might decline or become more volatile. Delisting could also make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital. We cannot assure our shareholders that our share repurchase program will enhance long-term shareholder value, and share repurchases (if permitted in the future) could increase the volatility of the price of our common stock and will diminish our cash availability. On November 8, 2011, our Board approved a share repurchase program. Under the program, we are authorized to repurchase shares of our common stock, in the open market or privately negotiated transactions, at times and prices considered appropriate by them depending upon prevailing market conditions and other corporate considerations, up to an aggregate purchase price of $10.0 million. The timing and actual number of shares repurchased depend on a variety of factors including the timing of open trading windows, price, corporate and regulatory requirements, and other market conditions, including limitations under our current credit agreement, which currently prohibits share repurchases. The existence of a share repurchase program, however, could also cause our share price to be higher than it would be in the absence of such a program and could potentially reduce the market liquidity for our common stock. To date, no repurchases have been made under the new program. Our hosted software and web-based services and web site may be subject to intentional disruption. Our hosted software and web-based services and web site may be subject to intentional disruption. Although we believe we have sufficient controls in place to prevent intentional disruptions, such as software viruses specifically designed to impede the performance of our software and web-based services, we may be affected by such efforts in the future. Further, despite the implementation of security measures, this infrastructure or other systems that we interface with, including the Internet and related systems, may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, hackers, improper employee or contractor access, programming errors, attacks by third parties or similar disruptive problems, resulting in the potential misappropriation of our proprietary information or interruptions of our services. Any compromise of our security, whether as a result of our own systems or systems that they interface with, could substantially disrupt our operations, harm our reputation and reduce demand for our services. 16 Table of Contents Unauthorized disclosure of confidential information provided to us by our customers or third parties, whether through breach of our secure network by an unauthorized party, employee theft or misuse, or otherwise, could harm our business. The difficulty of securely transmitting confidential information has been a significant issue when engaging in sensitive communications over the Internet. Our business relies on using the Internet to transmit confidential information. We believe that any well-publicized compromise of Internet security may deter companies from using the Internet for these purposes. Our services present the potential for embezzlement, identity theft, or other similar illegal behavior by our employees or subcontractors with respect to third parties. If there was a disclosure of confidential information, or if a third party were to gain unauthorized access to the confidential information we possess, our operations could be seriously disrupted, our reputation could be harmed and we could be subject to claims pursuant to our agreements with our customers or other liabilities. In addition, if this were to occur, we could be perceived to have facilitated or participated in illegal misappropriation of funds, documents, or data and therefore be subject to civil or criminal liability or regulatory action. A claim that is brought against us that is uninsured or under-insured could harm our business, financial conditions and results of operations. Even unsuccessful claims could result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources. Changes in our effective tax rate or changes in tax laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our future effective tax rate and the amount of our provision for income taxes may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: • adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; • increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes; • changes in available tax credits; • changes in share-based compensation expense; • changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; • changes in accounting standards or tax laws and regulations, or interpretations thereof; • the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; • the resolution of issues arising from uncertain positions and tax audits with various tax authorities; and • penalties and/or interest expense that we may be required to recognize on liabilities associated with uncertain tax positions. We are subject to taxation in various jurisdictions around the world. In preparing our financial statements, we calculate our effective income tax rate based on current tax laws and regulations and the estimated taxable income within each of these jurisdictions. Our effective income tax rate, however, may be higher due to numerous factors, including those enumerated above. A significantly higher effective income tax rate could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and liquidity. Officials in some of the jurisdictions in which we do business, including the United States, have proposed, or announced that they are reviewing tax increases and other revenue raising laws and regulations. Any resulting changes in tax laws or regulations could impose new restrictions, costs or prohibitions on our current practices and reduce our net income and adversely affect our cash flows. 17 Table of Contents Increased costs associated with corporate governance compliance may affect our results of operations and financial condition, and may make it more difficult to attract and retain officers and directors. The Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 has required changes in some of our corporate governance and securities disclosure and compliance practices, and requires ongoing review of our internal control procedures. These developments have increased our legal compliance and financial reporting costs, and to the extent that we identify areas of our disclosures controls and procedures and/or internal controls requiring improvement, we may have to incur additional costs and divert management’s time and attention. Any such action could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, we have not yet fully determined the potential financial and compliance impact of the Dodd – Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act which was enacted in July 2010. As a public entity, the Company expects these new rules and regulations to increase compliance costs as we evaluate the implications of new rules and respond to new requirements. Delays or a failure to comply with the new laws, rules and regulations could result in enforcement actions, the assessment of other penalties and civil suits. These laws and regulations make it more expensive for us under indemnities provided by the Company to our officers and directors. In addition, these new rules and regulations may make it more difficult and expensive to obtain director and officer liability insurance in the future and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve as directors or as executive officers. The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and investors in our common stock may experience substantial losses. The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and may continue to be volatile in the future. The trading price of our common stock could decline or fluctuate in response to a variety of factors, including: • changes in financial estimates of our net sales and operating results; • buy/sell recommendations by securities analysts; • the timing of announcements by us or our competitors concerning significant product developments, acquisitions, financial performance or other matters; • fluctuation in our quarterly operating results; • other economic or external factors; • our failure to meet the performance estimates of securities analysts or investors; • substantial sales of our common stock or the registration of substantial shares for sale; or • general stock market conditions. You may be unable to sell your stock at or above your purchase price. A limited number of our shareholders can exert significant influence over us. As reported in a Schedule 13D filed with SEC various investment funds and accounts managed by Prentice Capital Management, LP (“Prentice”) beneficially own approximately 20.1% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Prentice currently has the right to nominate two members of our Board of Directors. This share ownership would permit Prentice and other large shareholders to exert significant influence over the outcome of shareholder votes, including votes concerning the election of directors, by-law amendments, possible mergers, corporate control contests and other significant corporate transactions. We do not anticipate paying regular dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, so any short-term return on your investment will depend on the market price of our common stock. The covenants in our credit agreement prohibit us from paying cash dividends to our shareholders. No assurance, therefore, may be given that there will be any future dividends declared or that future dividend declarations, if any, will be commensurate in amount or frequency with past dividends. 18 Table of Contents Various restrictions in our charter documents, policies, New Jersey law and our credit agreement could prevent or delay a change in control of us which is not supported by our board of directors. We are subject to a number of provisions in our charter documents, policies, New Jersey law and our credit agreement that may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or change of control that a shareholder may consider favorable. These anti-takeover provisions include: • advance notice procedures for nominations of candidates for election as directors, set forth in the Kid Brands, Inc. Criteria and Procedures with Respect to Selection and Evaluation of Directors and Communications with the Board of Directors (available on the Company’s website located at www.kidbrands.com under the heading “Investor Relations”) and for shareholder proposals to be considered at shareholders’ meetings (set forth in the Company’s Proxy Statement for its most recent Annual Meeting of Shareholders); • A provision in our bylaws that specifies that special meetings of the shareholders may be called by resolution of the Board or by the chairman of the Board or the president and shall be called by the president or secretary upon the written request (stating the purpose or purposes of the meeting) of a majority of the Board or of the holders of 51% of the outstanding shares entitled to vote; • the absence of cumulative voting in the election of directors; • covenants in our credit agreement restricting mergers, asset sales and similar transactions and a provision in our credit agreement that triggers an event of default upon certain acquisitions by a person or group of persons with beneficial ownership of a majority of our outstanding common stock; and • the New Jersey Shareholders’ Protection Act. The New Jersey Shareholders’ Protection Act, N.J.S.A. 14A:10A-1 et seq. (“NJSPA”), as it pertains to us, prohibits us, subject to limited exceptions, from entering into a “business combination” with any beneficial owner of 10% or more of our voting stock for a period of five years after such shareholder acquires 10% or more of our voting stock (an “interested shareholder”), unless the transaction is approved by our board of directors before such interested shareholder acquires 10% or more of our voting stock. After the expiration of the five-year period, we may only enter into a business combination with an interested shareholder if one of the following conditions is satisfied: (1) the business combination is approved by our board of directors before the interested shareholder’s stock acquisition date, (2) the business combination is approved by the holders of two-thirds of our voting stock excluding shares of our voting stock owned by such interested shareholder, or (3) the interested shareholder pays at least a specified minimum formula price set forth in the NJSPA to ensure that the other shareholders receive at least the highest price per share paid by such interested shareholder and, subject to certain exceptions, the interested shareholder does not acquire additional shares after becoming an interested shareholder. A “business combination” includes the following transactions between a corporation or a subsidiary and an interested shareholder (or affiliates of such shareholder): (1) the merger or consolidation of the corporation with the interested shareholder or any corporation that after the merger or consolidation would be an affiliate or associate of the interested shareholder; (2) any sale, lease, exchange, mortgage, pledge, transfer or other disposition to or with the interested shareholder, which has an aggregate market value equal to 10% or more of the aggregate market value of all of the assets or of the outstanding stock, or 10% or more of the income of the corporation or its subsidiaries; (3) the issuance or transfer to the interested shareholder of any stock of the corporation having an aggregate market value equal to or greater than 5% of the corporation’s outstanding stock; (4) the adoption of a plan or proposal for the liquidation or dissolution of the corporation proposed by the interested shareholder; (5) any reclassification of securities proposed by the interested shareholder that has the effect, directly or indirectly, of increasing any class or series of stock that is owned by the interested shareholder; and (6) the receipt by the interested shareholder of any loans or other financial assistance from the corporation. 19 Table of Contents We have granted stock options, stock appreciation rights and restricted stock units to certain management employees and directors as compensation which may depress our stock price and result in dilution to our common stockholders. As of December 31, 2012, options to purchase approximately 415,575 shares of our common stock were outstanding, 370,575 of which were vested; 1,521,385 stock appreciation rights were outstanding, of which 255,740 were vested; and 193,250 unvested restricted stock units were outstanding. Our Equity Incentive Plan allows for the granting of additional incentive stock options, non-qualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, stock units, restricted and non-restricted shares and/or dividend equivalent rights, up to a total of 1.5 million shares (plus additional shares in the event of specified circumstances). If the market price of our common stock is higher than the exercise price of outstanding vested options, holders of those securities may exercise their options and sell the common stock acquired upon exercise of such options in the open market. If the market price of our common stock is higher than the exercise price of outstanding vested stock appreciation rights, holders of those securities may exercise their rights and sell the common stock acquired (to the extent such stock appreciation rights are settled in common stock) in the open market. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market by holders of exercised vested options, vested restricted stock, vested stock appreciation rights and/or vested restricted stock units settled in or exercised for stock may depress the prevailing market price for our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the future sale of our equity securities. Additionally, if the holders of outstanding vested options exercise those options (or if (i) vested stock appreciation rights are exercised and settled in common stock, or (ii) vested restricted stock units are settled in common stock), our common stockholders will incur dilution. The exercise price of all common stock options and stock appreciation rights is subject to adjustment upon stock dividends, splits and combinations, as well as anti-dilution adjustments as set forth in the relevant award agreement. See Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Terrorist attacks and threats may disrupt our operations and negatively impact our revenues, costs and stock price. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 in the U.S., the U.S. response to those attacks and the resulting decline in consumer confidence had a substantial adverse effect on the U.S. economy. Any similar future events may disrupt our operations directly or indirectly by affecting the operations of our customers. In addition, these events have had and may continue to have an adverse impact on the U.S. economy in general and on consumer confidence and spending in particular, which could harm our revenues. Any new terrorist events or threats could have a negative effect on the U.S. and world financial markets generally, which could reduce the price of our common stock and may limit the capital resources available to us and others with whom we conduct business. If any of these events occur, they could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and could result in increased volatility in the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 