ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such cases, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Our net sales and profitability depend on our ability to continue to conceive, design and market products that appeal to consumers. The introduction of new products is critical in our industry and to our growth strategy. A significant percentage of our product line is replaced each year with new products. Our business depends on our ability to continue to conceive, design and market new products and upon continuing market acceptance of our product offerings. Rapidly changing consumer preferences and trends make it difficult to predict how long consumer demand for our existing products will continue or which new products will be successful. Our current products may not continue to be popular or new products that we introduce may not achieve adequate consumer acceptance for us to recover development, manufacturing, marketing and other costs. A decline in consumer demand for our products, our failure to develop new products on a timely basis in anticipation of changing consumer preferences or the failure of our new products to achieve and sustain consumer acceptance could reduce our net sales and profitability. Increased consolidation and a declining number of independent retail outlets may have a continued negative impact on sales. The Company’s gift segment has incurred significant losses during the past three years primarily as a result of (i) retailer consolidation and a declining number of independent retail outlets; (ii) increased competition from other entities; and (iii) changing buying habits of consumers, marked by a shift from independent retailers to mass market retailers. Although the Company has increased its presence in, and focus on, the mass market, a significant portion of the Company’s gift segment products continue to be marketed to independent retail outlets. If increased consolidation of such outlets continues, as well as a continued decline in the number of such outlets, the Company’s sales therefrom will likely continue to decline. 9 The success of our gift segment will depend largely on the continued success of our Profit Improvement Program. The Company has developed and substantially implemented a Profit Improvement Program (the “PIP”) with respect to its global gift business, which reflects a continuation and expansion of certain restructuring activities undertaken in the past three years. The PIP involved an analysis and, in some instances, reevaluation of key operational aspects of the Company’s gift business and was designed to help enable the Company to return its gift business to a sustainable level of profitability. The PIP involved reengineering the manner in which the gift segment operates, and focused the gift business on its most profitable products, customers and territories as a means of providing a platform for potential profitable growth in the future. The scope of the PIP is broad and significant and may cause losses to our business that we cannot predict, including a loss of gift segment sales. Although the PIP is substantially complete, there are certain additional initiatives that were identified and which the Company has elected not to implement at this time. In the event the Company elects to implement these initiatives, such action may result in the recognition of certain significant restructuring charges and the incurrence of certain severance obligations. The Company may also be required to make certain investments to generate certain of the efficiencies that the PIP was designed to achieve, although the nature and magnitude of these investments cannot be determined at this time. There can be no assurance that the PIP will ultimately be successful in stemming the losses generated by the gift segment and returning the segment to profitability, or that we will be able to successfully grow the gift segment at any time. If we fail to maintain the PIP initiatives, our results of operations and financial position will suffer. See “Business—Marketing and Sales” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition—Overview” and “—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Gross margin could be adversely affected by several factors. Gross margin may be adversely affected in the future by increases in vendor costs (including as a result of increases in the cost of raw materials), excess inventory, obsolescence charges, changes in shipment volume, price competition and changes in channels of distribution or in the mix of products sold. Gross margin may also be impacted by the geographic mix of products sold. Gross margin is often lower in the mass market distribution channel, which represents a growing percentage of our sales. Changes in consumer preferences could adversely affect our net sales and profitability. The nature of the Company’s products and the rapid changes in customer preferences leave the Company vulnerable to an increased risk of inventory obsolescence. Thus, the Company’s ability to manage its inventories properly is an important factor in its operations. Inventory shortages can adversely affect the timing of shipments to customers and diminish sales and brand loyalty. Conversely, excess inventories can result in lower gross margins due to the excessive discounts and markdowns that might be necessary to reduce inventory levels. The inability of the Company to effectively manage its inventory could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Competition in our markets could reduce our net sales and profitability. We operate in highly competitive markets. Certain of our competitors have greater brand recognition and greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have. In addition, we may face competition from new participants in our markets because the gift and infant/juvenile product industries have limited barriers to entry. In addition, certain of our potential customers, in particular mass merchandisers, have the financial and other resources necessary to buy products similar to those that we sell directly from manufacturers in Eastern Asia and elsewhere, thereby reducing the size of our potential market. We also experience price competition for our products, competition for shelf space at retailers and 10 competition for licenses, all of which may increase in the future. If we cannot compete successfully in the future, our net sales and profitability will likely decline. Our debt covenants may affect our liquidity or limit our ability to complete acquisitions, incur debt, make investments, sell assets, merge or complete other significant transactions. Our 2006 Credit Agreements (defined below) include provisions that place limitations on a number of our activities, including our ability to: · incur additional debt; · create liens on our assets or make guarantees; · make certain investments or loans; · pay dividends; · dispose of or sell assets or enter into a merger or similar transaction; or · distribute cash from our domestic subsidiaries to the Company or to other subsidiaries, which could impact our ability to pay our corporate overhead expenses. These covenants could restrict our ability to pursue opportunities to expand our business operations. The Giftline Credit Agreement (defined below) also provides that the lenders will sweep all cash of the Giftline Borrowers (defined below) on a daily basis, which will restrict such borrowers’ ability to use such cash. In addition, during 2005 we funded losses in our gift division with cash flow from our infant and juvenile business. Pursuant to the Assignment (as defined in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition” under the heading “Liquidity and Capital Resources”), RB, (as defined in Item 7) is dependent upon cash distributions from its domestic subsidiaries to satisfy its legal obligations and overhead expenses. The covenants in our 2006 Credit Agreements limit the ability of our domestic subsidiaries to distribute cash to RB, which could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s liquidity. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition—Liquidity and Capital Resources” and Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The Infantline Borrowers are required to make prepayments of the Term Loan upon the occurrence of certain transactions, including most asset sales or debt or equity issuances. Additionally, commencing in early 2008 with respect to fiscal year 2007, annual mandatory prepayments of the Term Loan shall be required in an amount equal to 50% of Excess Cash Flow for each fiscal year unless the Total Debt to EBITDA Ratio for such fiscal year was equal to or less than 2.00:1.00. Inability to maintain compliance with the bank covenants. The Company’s ability to maintain compliance with the financial and other covenants in its credit facilities is dependent upon the Company’s ability to continue to execute its business model and current operational plans. If an event of default in such covenants occurs and is continuing, among other things, the lenders may accelerate the loans, declare the commitments thereunder to be terminated, seize collateral or take other actions of secured creditors. If the loans are accelerated or commitments terminated, we could face substantial liquidity problems and may be forced to dispose of material assets or operations, seek to obtain equity capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. Such alternative measures may not be available or successful. Also, our bank covenants may limit our ability to dispose of material assets or operations or to restructure or refinance our indebtedness. Even if we are able to restructure or refinance our indebtedness, the economic terms may not be favorable to us. All of the foregoing could have serious consequences to our financial condition and results of operations and could cause us to become bankrupt or insolvent. 11 Our cash flows and capital resources may be insufficient to make required payments on our indebtedness. Our ability to generate cash to meet scheduled payments with respect to our debt depends on our financial and operating performance, which, in turn, is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and the other factors discussed in this “Risk Factors” section. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and may be forced to dispose of material assets or operations, seek to obtain equity capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. As discussed in the immediately preceding risk factor, such alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt services obligations. The breach of any covenants or restrictions in the 2006 Credit Agreements could result in a default thereunder, which would permit the lenders to take the actions discussed in the immediately preceding risk factor. As discussed above, this could have serious consequences to our financial condition and results of operations and could cause us to become bankrupt or insolvent. Our cash flows and capital resources may be insufficient to make the required payments on the Kids Line Earnout Consideration. The Company cannot currently determine the precise amount of the Earnout Consideration that will be required to be paid pursuant to the Purchase Agreement relating to the Kids Line acquisition (see Item 7). However, based on current projections, the Company anticipates that the Earnout Consideration will be approximately $30 million, although the amount could be more or less depending on the actual performance of Kids Line for the remaining portion of the Measurement Period. The Company currently anticipates that cash flow from operations and anticipated availability under the Infantline Credit Agreement will be sufficient to fund the obligation to pay the Earnout Consideration, but there can be no guarantee of the Company being able to make such future payment. If we lose key personnel we may not be able to achieve our objectives. We are dependent on the continued efforts of various members of senior management, as well as senior executives of several of our subsidiaries, including Andrew R. Gatto, President and Chief Executive Officer, Michael Levin, President and Chief Executive Officer of Kids Line, LLC and Fritz Hirsch, President of Sassy, Inc. If for any reason, these or other senior executives or other key members of management do not continue to be active in management, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to retain our senior executives or other personnel necessary for the continued success of our business. Our infant and juvenile business is dependent on several large customers. The continued success of our infant and juvenile segment depends on our ability to continue to sell our products to several large mass market retailers. We typically do not have long-term contracts with these customers and the loss of one or more of these customers could have a material adverse affect on the results of operations of our infant and juvenile segment and ultimately the Company. In addition, our access to shelf space at retailers for the products of both of our segments may be reduced by store closings, consolidation among these retailers and competition from other products. An adverse change in our relationship with, or the financial viability of, one or more of our customers could reduce our net sales and profitability. See “Business—Marketing and Sales” and Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We may not be able to collect outstanding accounts receivable from our major retail customers. Certain of our retail customers purchase large quantities of our products on credit, which may cause a concentration of accounts receivable among some of our largest customers. Our profitability may be 12 harmed if one or more of our largest customers were unable or unwilling to pay these accounts receivable when due or demand credits or other concessions for products they are unable to sell. Disruptions in our current information technology system or difficulties in implementing an alternative global information technology system could harm our business. Our global gift operations are currently managed and monitored with an Enterprise Resource Planning (“ERP”) system. System failure or malfunctioning in the ERP system may result in disruption of operations and the inability to process transactions and could adversely affect our financial results. In addition, the Company has recently evaluated whether the implementation of an alternative global information technology system for the gift business would provide greater efficiencies, lower costs and greater reporting capabilities than those provided by the current ERP system. Implementation of a new system solution, if any, would likely proceed in stages across the geographic breadth of the Company, and could require several years for completion. In the event that we elect to implement a new system, we anticipate incurring significant financial and resource costs, and our business may be subject to transitional difficulties as we replace the current ERP system. These difficulties may include disruption of our operations, loss of data, and the diversion of our management and key employees’ attention away from other business matters. The difficulties associated with any such implementation, and our failure to realize the anticipated benefits from the implementation, could harm our business, results of operations and cash flows. We rely on foreign suppliers, primarily in the PRC, to manufacture most of our products, which subjects us to numerous international business risks that could increase our costs or disrupt the supply of our products. Approximately 87.3% of the Company’s purchases are attributable to manufacturers in the PRC. The supplier accounting for the greatest dollar volume of purchases accounted for approximately 20% and the five largest suppliers accounted for approximately 48% in the aggregate. The Company uses approximately 62 manufacturers in Eastern Asia. While we believe that there are many other manufacturing sources available for our product lines, difficulties encountered by one or several of our larger suppliers such as a fire, accident, natural disaster or an outbreak of illness (e.g., SARS or avian flu) at one or more of their facilities, could halt or disrupt production at the affected facilities, delay the completion of orders, cause the cancellation of orders, delay the introduction of new products or cause us to miss a selling season applicable to some of our products. In addition, our international operations subject us to certain other risks, including: · economic and political instability; · restrictive actions by foreign governments; · greater difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights and weaker laws protecting intellectual property rights; · changes in import duties or import or export restrictions; · delays in shipping of product and unloading of product through ports, as well as timely rail/truck delivery to the Company’s warehouses and/or a customer’s warehouse; · complications in complying with the laws and policies of the United States affecting the importation of goods, including duties, quotas and taxes; · complications in complying with trade and foreign tax laws; and · the effects of terrorist activity, armed conflict and epidemics. 13 Any of these risks could disrupt the supply of our products or increase our expenses. The costs of compliance with trade and foreign tax laws increase our expenses and actual or alleged violations of such laws could result in enforcement actions or financial penalties that could result in substantial costs. In addition, the introduction of certain social programs in the PRC or otherwise will likely increase the cost of doing business for certain of our manufacturers, which could increase our manufacturing costs. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could increase our expenses. Our net sales are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars, except for a small amount of net sales denominated in U.K. pounds, Australian dollars, Euros or Canadian dollars. Our purchases of finished goods from Eastern Asian manufacturers are denominated in Hong Kong dollars. Expenses for these manufacturers are denominated in Chinese Yuan. As a result, any material increase in the value of the Hong Kong dollar or the Yuan relative to the U.S. dollar or the U.K. pound would increase our expenses and therefore could adversely affect our profitability. We are also subject to exchange rate risk relating to transfers of funds denominated in U.K. pounds, Australian dollars, Canadian dollars or Euros from our foreign subsidiaries to the United States. See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information regarding foreign currency forward exchange contracts. Product liability, product recalls and other claims relating to the use of our products could increase our costs. We face product liability risks relating to the use of our products. We also must comply with a variety of product safety and product testing regulations. If we fail to comply with these regulations or if we face product liability claims, we may be subject to damage awards or settlement costs that exceed our insurance coverage and we may incur significant costs in complying with recall requirements. In addition, substantially all of our licenses give the licensor the right to terminate the license agreement if any products marketed under the license are subject to a product liability claim, recall or similar violations of product safety regulations or if we breach covenants relating to the safety of the products or their compliance with product safety regulations. A termination of a license could adversely affect our net sales. Even if a product liability claim is without merit, the claim could harm our reputation and divert management’s attention and resources from our business. Competition for licenses could increase our licensing costs or limit our ability to market products. We market a growing portion of our products, particularly in the gift segment, through licenses with other parties. These licenses are generally limited in scope and duration and generally authorize the sale of specific licensed products on a nonexclusive basis. Our license agreements often require us to make minimum guaranteed royalty payments that may exceed the amount we are able to generate from actual sales of the licensed products. Any termination of or failure to renew our significant licenses, or inability to develop and enter into new licenses, could limit our ability to market our licensed products or develop new products, and could reduce our net sales and profitability. Competition for licenses could require us to pay licensors higher royalties and higher minimum guaranteed payments in order to obtain or retain attractive licenses, which could increase our expenses. In addition, licenses granted to other parties, whether or not exclusive, could limit our ability to market products, including products we currently market, which could cause our net sales and profitability to decline. Trademark infringement or other intellectual property claims relating to our products could increase our costs. Our industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding trademark infringement and other intellectual property rights. We are and have been a defendant in trademark and other intellectual property infringement claims and claims of breach of license from time to time, and we may continue to be 14 subject to such claims in the future. The defense of intellectual property litigation is both costly and disruptive of the time and resources of our management, even if the claim is without merit. We also may be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs to resolve intellectual property litigation. We may experience difficulties in integrating strategic acquisitions. As part of our growth strategy, we may pursue acquisitions that are consistent with our mission and enable us to leverage our competitive strengths. We acquired Sassy, Inc. in 2002 and Kids Line, LLC in 2004. The integration of acquired companies and their operations into our operations involves a number of risks including: · possible failure to maintain customer, licensor and other relationships after the closing of the transaction of the acquired company; · the acquired business may experience losses which could adversely affect our profitability; · unanticipated costs relating to the integration of acquired businesses may increase our expenses; · difficulties in achieving planned cost-savings and synergies may increase our expenses or decrease our net sales; · diversion of management’s attention could impair their ability to effectively manage our business operations, and unanticipated management or operational problems or liabilities may adversely affect our profitability and financial condition; or · possible failure to obtain any necessary consents to the transfer of licenses or other agreements of the acquired company. Additionally, we financed our acquisition of Kids Line, LLC with senior debt financing. This debt leverage, or additional leverage that could be incurred in connection with any future acquisitions, could adversely affect our profit margins and limit our ability to capitalize on future business opportunities. See Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Sales of our gift segment products are seasonal, which causes our operating results to vary from quarter to quarter. Sales of our gift segment products are seasonal. Historically, our net sales with respect to gift segment products have peaked in the third and fourth quarters due to holiday season buying patterns. See “Business—Seasonality.” The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and investors in our common stock may experience substantial losses. The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and may continue to be volatile in the future. The trading price of our common stock could decline or fluctuate in response to a variety of factors, including: · changes in financial estimates of our net sales and operating results or buy/sell recommendations by securities analysts; · the timing of announcements by us or our competitors concerning significant product developments, acquisitions or financial performance; · fluctuation in our quarterly operating results; · other economic or external factors; 15 · continued losses in our gift segment; · our failure to meet the performance estimates of securities analysts; · substantial sales of our common stock; or · general stock market conditions. You may be unable to sell your stock at or above your purchase price. A limited number of our shareholders can exert significant influence over us. As reported in various Schedules 13D filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) during 2006, (i) various investment funds and accounts managed by Prentice Capital Management, L.P. (“Prentice”), (ii) D. E. Shaw Laminar Portfolios, L.L.C. (“Laminar”), and (iii) portfolios of investment funds advised by Third Avenue Management, LLC beneficially own approximately 20.9%, 20.9% and 16.4%, respectively, of the outstanding shares of our common. Prentice and Laminar each has the right to nominate two members of our Board of Directors. This share ownership would permit these and other large stockholders, if they chose to act together, to exert significant influence over the outcome of stockholder votes, including votes concerning the election of directors, by-law amendments, possible mergers, corporate control contests and other significant corporate transactions. See Item 12. “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters.” Various restrictions in our charter documents, policies, New Jersey law and our 2006 Credit Agreements could prevent or delay a change in control of us which is not supported by our board of directors. We are subject to a number of provisions in our charter documents, policies, New Jersey law and our 2006 Credit Agreements that may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or change of control that a stockholder may consider favorable. These anti-takeover provisions include: · advance notice procedures for nominations of candidates for election as directors and for stockholder proposals to be considered at stockholders’ meetings; · covenants in our credit agreements restricting mergers, asset sales and similar transactions and a provision in our credit agreements that triggers an event of default upon certain acquisitions by a person or group of persons with beneficial ownership of 50.1% or more of our outstanding common stock; and · the New Jersey Shareholders Protection Act. The New Jersey Shareholders Protection Act, as it pertains to the Company, prohibits a merger, consolidation, specified asset sale or other similar business combination or disposition between the Company and any stockholder of 10% or more of our voting stock for a period of five years after the stockholder acquires 10% or more of our voting stock, unless the transaction is approved by our board of directors before the stockholder acquires 10% or more of our voting stock. In addition, no such transaction shall occur at any time unless: (1) the transaction is approved by our board of directors before the stockholder acquires 10% or more of our voting stock, (2) the transaction is approved by the holders of two-thirds of our voting stock excluding shares of our voting stock owned by such “interested” stockholder or (3) (A) the aggregate consideration received per share by stockholders in such transaction is at least equal to the higher of (i) the highest per share price paid by the interested stockholder (x) within the 5-year period preceding the announcement date of such transaction or (y) within the 5-year period preceding, or in the transaction, in which the stockholder became an interested stockholder, whichever is higher, in each case plus specified interest, less the value of dividends paid up to the amount of such interest, and (ii) the market value per share of common stock on the announcement date of such transaction or on the date the interested stockholder became an interested stockholder, whichever is 16 higher, plus specified interest, less the value of dividends paid up to the amount of such interest, (B) the consideration in the transaction received by stockholders is in cash or in the same form as the interested stockholder used to acquire the largest number of shares previously acquired by it, and (C) after the date the interested stockholder became an interested stockholder, and prior to the consummation of the transaction, such interested stockholder has not become the beneficial owner of additional shares of our stock, except (w) as part of the transaction which resulted in the interested stockholder becoming an interested stockholder, (x) by virtue of proportionate stock splits, stock dividends or other distributions not constituting a transaction covered by the New Jersey Shareholders Protection Act, (y) through a transaction meeting the conditions of paragraph (B) above and this paragraph (C) or (z) through purchase by the interested stockholder at any price, which, if that price had been paid in an otherwise permissible transaction under the New Jersey Shareholders Protection Act, the announcement date and consummation date of which were the date of that purchase, would have satisfied the requirements of paragraphs (A) and (B) above. Changes in our effective tax rate may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our future effective tax rate and the amount of our provision for income taxes may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: · the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; · the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings on which we have previously provided for U.S. taxes; · adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; · increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes; · changes in available tax credits; · changes in share-based compensation expense; · changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; · changes in accounting standards or tax laws and regulations, or interpretations thereof; · the resolution of issues arising from uncertain positions and tax audits with various tax authorities; and · penalties and/or interest expense that we may be required to recognize on liabilities associated with uncertain tax positions. · Any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could adversely impact our net income for future periods. Actual results differing from estimates. If actual events, circumstances, outcomes and amounts differ from judgments, assumptions and estimates made or used in determining the amount of certain assets (including the amount of recoverability of property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets, valuation allowances for receivables, inventories and deferred income tax assets, and accruals for income taxes and liabilities), liabilities and or other items reflected in our financial statements, it could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Increased costs associated with corporate governance compliance may affect our results of operations. The Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 has required changes in some of our corporate governance and securities disclosure and compliance practices, and requires ongoing review of our internal control 17 procedures. These developments have increased our legal compliance and financial reporting costs, and to the extent that we identify areas of our disclosures controls and procedures and/or internal controls requiring improvement we may have to incur additional costs and diversion of management’s time. Any such action could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 