ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below constitute the material risks pertaining to our business. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occurs, our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. In such cases, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. Our net sales and profitability depend on our ability to continue to conceive, design and market products that appeal to consumers. The introduction of new products is critical in our industry and to our growth strategy. A significant percentage of our product line is replaced each year with new products. Our business depends on our ability to continue to conceive, design and market new products and upon continuing market acceptance of our product offerings. Rapidly changing consumer preferences and trends make it difficult to predict how long consumer demand for our existing products will continue or which new products will be successful. Our current products may not continue to be popular or new products that we introduce may not achieve adequate consumer acceptance for us to recover development, manufacturing, marketing and other costs. A decline in consumer demand for our products, our failure to develop new products on a timely basis in anticipation of changing consumer preferences or the failure of our new products to achieve and sustain consumer acceptance could reduce our net sales and profitability. In addition, changes in customer preferences leave us vulnerable to an increased risk of inventory obsolescence. Thus, our ability to manage our inventories properly is an important factor in our operations. Inventory shortages can adversely affect the timing of shipments to customers and diminish sales and brand loyalty. Conversely, excess inventories can result in lower gross margins due to the excessive discounts and markdowns that might be necessary to reduce inventory levels. Our inability to effectively manage our inventory could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Gross margin could be adversely affected by several factors. Gross margin may be adversely affected in the future by increases in vendor costs (including as a result of increases in the cost of raw materials, labor or other costs or fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates), excess inventory, obsolescence charges, changes in shipment volume or freight rates, price competition and changes in channels of distribution or in the mix of products sold. For example, increased costs in the PRC, primarily for labor, raw materials, and the impact of certain tax laws, as well as the appreciation of the Chinese Yuan against the U.S. dollar, have at times negatively impacted our gross margins. In addition, pressure from major retailers, primarily as a result of continued challenging economic conditions, to offer additional mark-downs and other credits or price concessions to clear existing inventory and secure new product placements, have and may continue to negatively impact our margins. Economic conditions, such as rising fuel prices and currency exchange fluctuations, may also adversely impact our margins. Our Kids Line and CoCaLo businesses use significant quantities of cotton, either in the form of cotton fabric or cotton-polyester fabric. Cotton is subject to ongoing price fluctuations because it is an agricultural product impacted by changing weather patterns, disease and other factors, such as supply and demand considerations, both domestically and internationally. Cotton prices dramatically increased during 2010, impacting fabric availability and costs. In addition, increased oil prices affect key components of the raw material prices in many of our products. Significant increases in the prices of cotton or oil have and could adversely affect our gross margins and our operations. In addition, for the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2010, we recorded a charge in the amount of approximately $6,860,000 (which includes approximately $340,000 of interest) for import duties that we currently anticipate will be owed by our LaJobi subsidiary to U.S. Customs and Border Protection (“U.S. Customs”), with respect to incorrect import duties applied on certain wooden furniture imported from the PRC. The charge was recorded in cost of sales (other than the interest portion, which was recorded in interest expense), and adversely affected gross margins and net income for the relevant periods. This accrual results from an ongoing investigation into, among other things, LaJobi’s import practices, initiated at the direction of the Board of Directors, and supervised by a Special Committee of three non-management members of the Board, following the discovery of certain potential issues in our preparation for the commencement of a “Focused Assessment” of LaJobi’s import practices by U.S. Customs. As the Focused Assessment is still pending, it is possible that the actual amount of duty owed for the period covered thereby will be higher upon its completion and, in any event, additional interest will continue to accrue on the amounts we currently anticipate we will owe until payment is made. In addition, we may be assessed by U.S. Customs a penalty of up to 100% of any customs duty owed, as well as possibly being subject to fines, penalties or other measures from U.S. Customs or other governmental authorities. Any amounts owed in excess of the accrual recorded for the fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2010 will adversely affect our gross margin and net income for the period(s) in which such amounts are recorded and could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. In addition, there can be no assurance that our licensors, vendors and/or retail partners will not take adverse action under applicable agreements with the Company (or otherwise) as a result of the matters described above. See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings”, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under the sections entitled “Recent Developments”, “Earnouts with respect to Acquisitions” and “Debt Financings” and Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for a discussion of the Focused Assessment, the internal investigation and other actions taken by us in connection therewith. We have discontinued the practices that resulted in the charge for anticipated anti-dumping duty, and we believe that our ability to procure the affected categories of wooden bedroom furniture will not be materially adversely affected in future periods. 8 Table of Contents Our business is dependent on several large customers. The continued success of our infant and juvenile businesses depends on our ability to continue to sell our products to several large mass market retailers. In particular, Toys “R” Us, Inc. and Babies “R” Us, Inc. (considered together), Target Corporation and Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. accounted for approximately 48.6%, 9.9% and 9.4%, respectively, of our consolidated gross sales for the 2010 calendar year. While the consolidation of our customer base may provide certain benefits to us, such as potentially more efficient product distribution and other decreased costs of sales and distribution, we typically do not have long-term contracts with our customers and our agreements with these customers do not require them to purchase any specific number or amount of our products. As a result, agreements with respect to pricing, returns, cooperative advertising or special promotions or allowances, among other things, are subject to periodic negotiation with each customer. No assurance can be given that these or other customers will continue to do business with us or that they will maintain their historical levels of business, and the loss of one or more of the foregoing customers or one or more of our other large customers could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. In addition, our success depends upon the continuing willingness of large retailers to purchase and provide shelf space for our products. Our access to shelf space at retailers for our products may be reduced by store closings, consolidation among these retailers, competition from other products or stricter requirements for infant and juvenile products by retailers that we may not be able to meet. An adverse change in our relationship with, or the financial viability of, one or more of our customers could reduce our net sales and profitability. Competition in our markets could reduce our net sales and profitability. We operate in highly competitive markets. Certain of our competitors have greater brand recognition and greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have. In addition, we may face competition from new participants in our markets because the infant and juvenile product industry has limited barriers to entry. Many of our principal customers are large mass merchandisers. The rapid growth of these large mass merchandisers, together with changes in consumer shopping patterns, have contributed to the formation of dominant multi-category retailers that have strong negotiating power with suppliers. Current trends among retailers include fostering high levels of competition among suppliers, demanding innovative new products and requiring suppliers to maintain or reduce product prices and deliver products with shorter lead times. Other trends are for retailers to import products directly from factory sources and to source and sell products under their own private label brands that compete with our products. The combination of these market influences has created an intensely competitive environment in which our principal customers continuously evaluate which product suppliers to use, resulting in downward pricing pressures and the need for consumer-meaningful brands, the ongoing introduction and commercialization of innovative new products, continuing improvements in customer service, and the maintenance of strong relationships with large, high-volume purchasers. We also face the risk of changes in the strategy or structure of our major retailer customers, such as overall store and inventory reductions and retailer consolidation. The resulting risks include possible loss of sales, reduced profitability and limited ability to recover cost increases through price increases. We also experience price competition for our products, competition for shelf space at retailers and competition for licenses, all of which may increase in the future. If we cannot compete successfully in the future, our net sales and profitability will likely decline. 9 Table of Contents To compete successfully, we must develop and maintain consumer-meaningful brands. Our ability to compete successfully also depends increasingly on our ability to develop and maintain consumer-meaningful brands so that our retailer customers will need our products to meet consumer demand. The development and maintenance of such brands requires significant investment in brand building and marketing initiatives, although any such investment may not deliver the anticipated results. The state of the economy may impact our business. Our business and results of operations are affected by international, national and regional economic conditions. The United States and many other international economies experienced a major recession in recent periods, with continuing effects for our industry. The end-users of our products are individual consumers. A hesitant recovery in the U.S economy, high unemployment, volatile capital markets, depressed housing prices and tight consumer lending practices have resulted in considerable negative pressure on consumer spending and consumer confidence, which we believe has resulted in lower birth rates and could result in reduced demand for our products. In the event that current economic conditions worsen, current and potential consumers of our products may be inclined to delay their purchases, and further tightening of credit markets may restrict our customers’ (both direct and indirect) ability and willingness to make purchases. In addition, continuing adverse global economic conditions in our markets could result in increased price competition for our products, increased risk of excess and obsolete inventories, increased risk in the collectability of accounts receivable from our direct customers, increased risk in potential reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable, delays in signing or failing to sign direct customer contracts or signing customer agreements at reduced purchase levels, and limitations in the capital resources available to us and others with whom we conduct business. Any of the foregoing effects could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition and could adversely affect our stock price. Product liability, product recalls and other claims relating to the use of our products could increase our costs. We face product liability risks relating to the use of our products. We also must comply with a variety of product safety and product testing regulations. In particular, our products are subject to, among other statutes and regulations, the Consumer Product Safety Act, the Federal Hazardous Substances Act, or the FHSA, and the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act, or the CPSIA, which empower the Consumer Product Safety Commission, or the CPSC, to take action against hazards presented by consumer products, including adjudication and promulgation of regulations and uniform safety standards. With expanded authority under the CPSIA, the CPSC has and continues to adopt new regulations for safety and products testing that apply to substantially all of our products. These new regulations have and are expected to further significantly increase the regulatory requirements governing the manufacture and sale of infant and juvenile products and increase the potential penalties for noncompliance with applicable regulations. The CPSC has the authority to exclude from the market and recall certain consumer products that are found to be potentially hazardous. Consumer product safety laws also exist in some states and cities within the United States and in Canada, Australia and Europe, as well as certain other countries. While we take the steps we believe are necessary to comply with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance in the future, or that rapidly changing safety standards will not render unsaleable products that complied with previously-applicable safety standards. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, or if we face product liability claims, we may be subject to damage awards or settlement costs that exceed any available insurance coverage, we may incur significant costs in complying with recall requirements, and our financial results could be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, concerns about potential liability or potential future changes in product safety regulations may lead us to recall voluntarily or otherwise discontinue selling selected products. Recalls, post-manufacture repairs of our products, or product liability claims could also harm our reputation, increase our costs or reduce our net sales. Governments and regulatory agencies in the markets where we manufacture and sell products may enact additional regulations relating to product safety and consumer protection in the future or take other actions that may adversely impact infant and juvenile products, including the categories of products that we produce and sell. In addition, one or more of our customers might require changes or impose their own standards for our products, such as the non-use of certain materials or a refusal to sell certain products. Complying with existing or any such additional regulations or requirements could impose increased costs on our business. Similarly, increased penalties for non-compliance could subject us to greater expense in the event any of our products were found to not comply with such regulations. Furthermore, substantially all of our licenses give the licensor the right to terminate the license agreement if any products marketed under the license are subject to a product liability claim, recall or similar violations of product safety regulations or if we breach covenants relating to the safety of the products or their compliance with product safety regulations. A termination of a license could adversely affect our net sales. Even if a product liability claim is without merit, the claim could harm our reputation and divert management’s attention and resources from our business. 10 Table of Contents If we lose key personnel we may not be able to achieve our objectives. We are dependent on the continued efforts of various members of senior management, as well as senior executives of several of our subsidiaries. If for any reason, these or other key members of management do not continue to be active in management, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to attract and retain senior executives or other personnel necessary for the continued success of our business. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under the sections entitled “Recent Developments” and “Earnouts with respect to Acquisitions” for a discussion of the termination of the employment of Lawrence Bivona, the former President of LaJobi, effective March 14, 2011. We are currently party to litigation that could be costly to defend and distracting to management. As of the date of this report, a purported class action lawsuit has been filed on behalf of persons who allegedly purchased our common stock between March 26, 2010 and March 15, 2011. The lawsuit names us and certain of our current officers and certain of our current and former directors, as defendants. The complaint alleges one claim for relief pursuant to Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder, and a second claim pursuant to Section 20(a) of the Exchange Act, claiming generally that we and/or the other defendants issued materially false and misleading statements during the relevant time period regarding compliance with customs laws, our financial reports and internal controls. The complaint does not state the size of the class or quantify the amount of damages sought. Additional litigation may be initiated against us based on the alleged items at issue in the complaint described above. We cannot predict the outcome of the existing lawsuit or the likelihood that further proceedings will be instituted against us. The cost of defending against the existing lawsuit or any future lawsuits or proceedings may be high, and these legal proceedings may also result in the diversion of our management’s time and attention away from our business. In the event that there is an adverse ruling in any legal proceeding, we may be required to make payments to third parties that could harm our business or financial results. We may not be able to collect outstanding accounts receivable from our major retail customers. Certain of our retail customers purchase large quantities of our products on credit, which may cause a concentration of accounts receivable among some of our largest customers. Our profitability may be harmed if one or more of our largest customers were unable or unwilling to pay these accounts receivable when due or demand credits or other concessions for products they are unable to sell or for other reasons. Competition for licenses could increase our licensing costs or limit our ability to market products. We market a significant portion of our products through licenses with other parties. Sales of licensed products represented 38% of our net sales in fiscal year 2010. These licenses are generally limited in scope and duration and generally authorize the sale of specific licensed products on an exclusive or nonexclusive basis. Our license agreements often require us to make minimum guaranteed royalty payments that may exceed the amount we are able to generate from actual sales of the licensed products. Any termination of or failure to renew our significant licenses, or inability to develop and enter into new licenses, could limit our ability to market our licensed products or develop new products, and could reduce our net sales and profitability. Competition for licenses could require us to pay licensors higher royalties and higher minimum guaranteed payments in order to obtain or retain attractive licenses, which could increase our expenses. In addition, licenses granted to other parties, whether or not exclusive, could limit our ability to market products, including products we currently market, which could cause our net sales and profitability to decline. Our debt covenants may affect our liquidity or limit our ability to complete acquisitions, incur debt, make investments, sell assets, merge or complete other significant transactions. Our current credit agreement includes provisions that place limitations on a number of our activities, including our ability to: incur additional debt; create liens on our assets or make guarantees; make certain investments or loans; pay dividends; repurchase our common stock; dispose of or sell assets; or enter into acquisitions, mergers or similar transactions. These covenants could restrict our ability to pursue opportunities to expand our business operations. We are required to make prepayments of our debt upon the occurrence of certain transactions, including most asset sales or debt or equity issuances and extraordinary receipts. 11 Table of Contents Inability to maintain compliance with the bank covenants. Our ability to maintain compliance with the financial and other covenants in our current credit agreement is dependent upon our ability to continue to execute our business model and current operational plans. See “The state of the economy may impact our business” above. If an event of default in such covenants occurs and is continuing, among other things, the lenders may accelerate the loans, declare the commitments thereunder to be terminated, seize collateral or take other actions of secured creditors. If the loans are accelerated or commitments terminated, we could face substantial liquidity problems and may be forced to dispose of material assets or operations, seek to obtain equity capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. Such alternative measures may not be available or successful. Also, our bank covenants may limit our ability to dispose of material assets or operations or to restructure or refinance our indebtedness. Even if we are able to restructure or refinance our indebtedness, the economic terms may not be favorable to us. In addition, an event of default under our credit agreement could result in a cross-default under certain license agreements that we maintain. All of the foregoing could have serious consequences to our financial condition and results of operations and could cause us to become bankrupt or insolvent. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under the section captioned “Debt Financings”, as well as Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for a discussion of a waiver and amendment to our credit agreement required to address, among other things, an unmatured event of default with respect to a breach of a financial covenant resulting from the charge to cost of sales and interest expense recorded in the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2010 in connection with the internal investigation of Lajobi’s import practices and business and staffing practices in Asia described in Item 3, “Legal Proceedings”, below. Our cash flows and capital resources may be insufficient to make required payments on our indebtedness. Our ability to generate cash to meet scheduled payments with respect to our debt depends on our financial and operating performance, which, in turn, is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and the other factors discussed in this “Risk Factors” section. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and may be forced to dispose of material assets or operations, seek to obtain equity capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. As discussed in the immediately preceding risk factor, such alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt services obligations. The breach of any covenants or restrictions in our credit agreement could result in a default thereunder, which would permit the lenders to take the actions discussed in the immediately preceding risk factor. In addition, an event of default under our credit agreement could result in a cross-default under certain license agreements that we maintain. As discussed above, this could have serious consequences to our financial condition and results of operations and could cause us to become bankrupt or insolvent. Increases in interest rates may increase our interest expense and adversely affect our profitability and cash flows. The loans under our credit agreement bear interest, at our option, at a base rate or at LIBOR, plus applicable margins, which vary between 2.0% and 4.25% on LIBOR borrowings and 1.0% and 3.25% on base rate borrowings (base rate borrowings include a floor of 30 day LIBOR plus 1%). At December 31, 2010, the applicable margins were 2.75% for LIBOR borrowings and 1.75% for base rate borrowings. Increases in the interest rate under our credit agreement will increase our interest expense, which could harm our profitability and cash flow. Further potential disruptions in the credit markets may adversely affect the availability and cost of short-term funds for liquidity requirements and our ability to meet long-term commitments, which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. If sufficient internal funds are not available from our operations, we may be required to further rely on the banking and credit markets to meet our financial commitments and short-term liquidity needs. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets, as were experienced during 2008 and 2009, could adversely affect our ability to draw on our bank revolving credit facility. Our access to funds under our credit facility is dependent on the ability of the banks that are parties to such facility to meet their funding commitments. Those banks may not be able to meet their funding commitments to us if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests from us and other borrowers within a short period of time. Longer term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives, or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to liquidity needed for our business. Any disruption could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. Such measures could include deferring capital expenditures, and reducing or eliminating discretionary uses of cash. 12 Table of Contents Federal and state statutes allow courts, under certain specific circumstances, to void purchase transactions in the event of the bankruptcy of the purchaser. Under current federal bankruptcy law and comparable provisions of state fraudulent transfer or fraudulent conveyance laws, in the event of the bankruptcy of a purchaser of the Company’s assets, the sale transaction may be voided or cancelled, and damages imposed on the Company, if, among other things, such purchaser, at the time the transaction was consummated, received less than reasonably equivalent value for the consideration paid, and either was insolvent or rendered insolvent by reason of such transaction. The measures of insolvency for purposes of fraudulent transfer or conveyance laws vary depending upon the particular law applied in any proceeding to determine whether a fraudulent transfer or conveyance has occurred. With respect to the sale of the Company’s gift business to TRC, we believe that, on the basis of historical financial information, operating history and other factors, TRC did receive reasonably equivalent value for the consideration paid by TRC, and that TRC was neither insolvent prior or subsequent to the consummation of the transaction. We cannot assure you, however, as to what standard a court would apply in making these determinations or that a court would agree with our conclusions in this regard. In addition, although we obtained a solvency opinion in connection with this transaction confirming our position as to TRC’s solvency, we cannot assure you what weight, if any, would be accorded thereto by a court. An adverse determination with respect to any such claim could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. If our divested gift business fails to satisfy certain obligations relating to their operations, we could face third-party claims seeking to hold us liable for those obligations. In December of 2008, we completed the sale of our gift business to TRC. We remain contingently liable to third parties for some obligations of the gift business, such as a real estate lease assumed by TRC in the transaction, and may remain contingently liable for certain contracts and other obligations that have not been novated, in either case if TRC fails to meet its obligations. The real estate lease referred to above was terminated in December 2010 and, while we have been informed that TRC and the landlord have agreed to allow TRC to occupy the premises under certain conditions, we remain contingently liable for certain amounts that were due and outstanding on the termination date should they remain unpaid and no accommodation is secured from the landlord. Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we receive any such third-party claims. We rely on foreign suppliers, primarily in the PRC, to manufacture most of our products, which subjects us to numerous international business risks that could increase our costs or disrupt the supply of our products. All of our products are manufactured by unaffiliated companies, most of which are in the Far East, principally in the PRC. Approximately 74% of our dollar volume of purchases for our operations in 2010 were attributable to manufacturers in the PRC. The supplier accounting for the greatest dollar volume of purchases for our continuing operations accounted for approximately 18% and the five largest suppliers accounted for approximately 44% in the aggregate during 2010. While we believe that there are many other manufacturing sources available for our product lines, difficulties encountered by one or several of our larger suppliers such as a fire, accident, natural disaster or an outbreak of illness (e.g., H1N1, SARS, avian or other flu) at one or more of their facilities, could halt or disrupt production at the affected facilities, delay the completion of orders, cause the cancellation of orders, delay the introduction of new products or cause us to miss a selling season applicable to some of our products. In addition, our international operations subject us to certain other risks (some of which are discussed in the immediately preceding risk factor and below), including: • economic and political instability; • restrictive actions by foreign governments; • changing international political relations; • labor availability and cost; • changes in laws, including tax or labor laws, or changes in regulations, treaties and policies; • changes in shipping costs and availability of sufficient cargo capacity; • changes in the availability and cost of raw materials; • greater difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights and weaker laws protecting intellectual property rights; • changes in import duties or import or export restrictions (including changes that could be imposed retroactively); • delays in shipping of product and unloading of product through ports, as well as timely rail/truck delivery to our warehouses and/or a customer’s warehouse; • complications in complying with the laws and policies of the United States affecting the importation of goods, including duties, quotas and taxes (See “Gross margin could be adversely affected by several factors” above); • complications in complying with trade and foreign tax laws; and • the effects of terrorist activity, armed conflict and epidemics. 13 Table of Contents Any of these risks could disrupt the supply of our products or increase our expenses. The costs of compliance with trade and foreign tax laws may increase our expenses and actual or alleged violations of such laws could result in enforcement actions or financial penalties that could result in substantial costs. In addition, the introduction or expansion of certain social programs in the PRC or otherwise will likely increase the cost of doing business for certain of our manufacturers, which would likely increase our manufacturing costs. With most of our manufacturers located in the Far East, we must commit to production in advance of customer orders. If we fail to forecast customer or consumer demand accurately, we may encounter difficulties in filling customer orders on a timely basis or in liquidating excess inventories. Another recent development affecting many companies importing goods from the PRC is that it has become increasingly difficult to secure cargo capacity on a timely basis and at contracted prices. This may signal a trend of higher ocean freight transportation prices in coming periods. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Historically, labor in the PRC has been readily available at relatively low cost as compared to labor costs in North America. The PRC has experienced rapid social, political and economic change in recent years. There is no assurance labor will continue to be available in the PRC at costs consistent with historical levels or that changes in labor or other laws will not be enacted which would have a material adverse effect on product costs in the PRC. If our suppliers suffer labor shortages, this may result in future supply delays and disruptions and drive a substantial increase in labor costs. Any failure to fully comply with the laws of various Asian jurisdictions could cause potential liability and have other adverse effects. Lawrence Bivona, the former President of LaJobi, Inc., along with various family members, established L&J Industries in Asia to provide quality control, compliance and certain other services to LaJobi for goods being shipped by LaJobi from Asian ports. Pursuant to the terms of a transition services agreement entered into in connection with the acquisition of LaJobi, commencing in April 2008, we utilized the full time services of approximately 28 employees of L&J Industries for such services. We ceased making direct payments to L&J Industries in June 2010, when we became aware that L&J Industries has ceased operations. However, we continued to pay for the services of approximately 26 of the former employees of L&J Industries (based in Hong Kong, China, Vietnam and Thailand), including through an individual based in Hong Kong. Companies retaining the services of individuals in these jurisdictions are subject to a variety of foreign laws. The Company believes that the payment and other practices with respect to quality control, compliance and certain other services in Hong Kong, China, Vietnam and Thailand violated civil laws and potentially violated criminal laws in these jurisdictions; however, the Company currently does not believe that any such violations will have a material adverse effect on the Company, although there can be no assurance that this will be the case. LaJobi has since discontinued the above-described manner of paying individuals providing such services in the PRC and Hong Kong, and has taken corrective action by establishing interim arrangements which it believes are currently in compliance with applicable requirements in such jurisdictions, and is in the process of establishing subsidiaries in the PRC through which the Company intends to directly employ the quality control individuals in these jurisdictions in the future. With respect to Thailand and Vietnam, we are investigating appropriate corrective interim arrangements, and are in the process of establishing a subsidiary in Thailand through which the Company intends to directly employ the quality control individuals in these jurisdictions in the future. Although we believe that once these subsidiaries are fully established, the Company will be in compliance with applicable laws of the relevant Asian countries, no assurance can be given that applicable governmental authorities will concur with such a view and will not impose taxes or penalties or other measures with respect to staffing practices prior thereto. The Board is continuing to review the extent to which LaJobi’s payment and other practices for the above-described services in Asia may have breached other laws, whether any penalties or other measures may be assessed against LaJobi, the Company or any related personnel as a result, and what remedial actions may be advisable or required. In addition, there can be no assurance that our licensors, vendors and/or retail partners will not take adverse action under applicable agreements with us (or otherwise) as a result of such potential compliance issues. Because the investigation is ongoing, there can be no assurance as to how the resulting consequences, if any, may impact our internal controls, business, reputation, results of operations or financial condition. 14 Table of Contents We may have difficulty establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls in the PRC and other Asian countries. The PRC and certain other Asian jurisdictions have historically had fewer or less developed management and financial reporting concepts and practices, as well as modern banking, computer, and other control systems. We may experience difficulty in hiring and/or retaining a sufficient number of qualified individuals in such jurisdictions. As a result, we may experience difficulty in establishing management, legal, and financial controls, collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account, and corporate records and instituting business practices that meet business standards such as those in the United States. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could increase our expenses. Our net sales are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars, except for a small amount of net sales denominated in U.K. pounds, Australian dollars and Euros. Our purchases of finished goods from Eastern Asian manufacturers are denominated in U.S. dollars. Expenses for these manufacturers are denominated in Chinese Yuan or other Eastern Asian currencies. As a result, any material increase in the value of the Yuan (or such other currencies) relative to the U.S. or Australian dollars or the U.K. pound would increase the prices at which we purchase finished goods and therefore could adversely affect our profitability. We are also subject to exchange rate risk relating to transfers of funds denominated in U.K. pounds, Australian dollars or Euros from our foreign subsidiaries to the United States. Trademark infringement or other intellectual property claims relating to our products could increase our costs. We have from time to time received claims of alleged infringement of intellectual property relating to certain of our products, and we may face similar claims in the future. The defense of intellectual property litigation can be both costly and disruptive of the time and resources of our management, even if the claim is without merit. We also may be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs to resolve intellectual property litigation. In addition, these claims could materially harm our brand name, reputation and operations. If our products are copied or “knocked-off,” our sales of these products may be materially reduced and our profitability may be negatively affected. Occasionally in the infant and juvenile industry, successful products are “knocked-off” or copied by competitors. While we strive to protect our intellectual property, we cannot guarantee that knock-offs will not occur or that they will not have a significant effect on our business. The costs incurred in protecting our intellectual property rights could be significant, and there is no assurance that we will be able to successfully protect our rights (see preceding risk factor). Significant changes in the ability to transfer capital across borders could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Government action may restrict our ability to transfer capital across borders in the countries where we conduct business or have invested capital. Significant changes in our ability to transfer our capital across borders could have a significant adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We may experience difficulties in integrating strategic acquisitions. As part of our growth strategy, we may pursue acquisitions that are consistent with our mission and enable us to leverage our competitive strengths. The integration of acquired companies and their operations into our operations involves a number of risks including: • possible failure to maintain customer, licensor and other relationships after the closing of the transaction of the acquired company; • the acquired business may experience losses which could adversely affect our profitability; • unanticipated costs relating to the integration of acquired businesses may increase our expenses; • difficulties in achieving planned cost-savings and synergies may increase our expenses or decrease our net sales; • diversion of management’s attention could impair their ability to effectively manage our business operations, and unanticipated management or operational problems or liabilities may adversely affect our profitability and financial condition; or • possible failure to obtain any necessary consents to the transfer of licenses or other agreements of the acquired company. 15 Table of Contents Additionally, we financed our acquisitions of Kids Line, LaJobi and CoCaLo with senior debt financing. This debt leverage, or additional leverage that may be incurred with any other future acquisitions, could adversely affect our profitability and limit our ability to capitalize on future business opportunities. Disruptions in our current information technology systems or difficulties in implementing our new information technology system could harm our business. System failure or malfunctioning in our information technology systems may result in disruption of operations and the inability to process transactions and could adversely affect our financial results. In addition, we commenced the implementation in December 2009 of a new consolidated information technology system for the Company, which we believe will provide greater efficiencies and greater reporting capabilities than those provided by the current separate systems in place across our individual infant and juvenile companies. In connection with such implementation (which now includes functionality enhancements beyond the original project concept), we anticipate incurring total costs of approximately $3.3 million, of which $1.3 million has been incurred as of December 31, 2010. We anticipate that the balance of the costs will be incurred in 2011 and the first half of 2012. As a result of this implementation our business may be subject to transitional difficulties as we replace the current systems. These difficulties may include disruption of our operations, loss of data, and the diversion of our management and key employees’ attention away from other business matters. The difficulties associated with any such implementation, and our failure to realize the anticipated benefits from the implementation, could harm our business, results of operations and cash flows. Changes in our effective tax rate, or changes in tax laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our future effective tax rate and the amount of our provision for income taxes may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: • adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; • increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes; • changes in available tax credits; • changes in share-based compensation expense; • changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; • changes in accounting standards or tax laws and regulations, or interpretations thereof; • the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; • the resolution of issues arising from uncertain positions and tax audits with various tax authorities; and • penalties and/or interest expense that we may be required to recognize on liabilities associated with uncertain tax positions. We are subject to taxation in various jurisdictions around the world. In preparing our financial statements, we calculate our effective income tax rate based on current tax laws and regulations and the estimated taxable income within each of these jurisdictions. Our effective income tax rate, however, may be higher due to numerous factors, including those enumerated above. A significantly higher effective income tax rate could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and liquidity. Officials in some of the jurisdictions in which we do business, including the United States, have proposed, or announced that they are reviewing tax increases and other revenue raising laws and regulations. Any resulting changes in tax laws or regulations could impose new restrictions, costs or prohibitions on our current practices and reduce our net income and adversely affect our cash flows. 16 Table of Contents Actual results differing from estimates. If actual events, circumstances, outcomes and amounts differ from judgments, assumptions and estimates made or used in determining the amount of certain assets (including the amount of recoverability of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, valuation allowances for receivables, inventories and deferred income tax assets), liabilities (including accruals for income taxes and liabilities) and or other items reflected in our consolidated financial statements, it could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Increased costs associated with corporate governance compliance may affect our results of operations and financial condition, and may make it more difficult to attract and retain officers and directors. The Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 has required changes in some of our corporate governance and securities disclosure and compliance practices, and requires ongoing review of our internal control procedures. These developments have increased our legal compliance and financial reporting costs, and to the extent that we identify areas of our disclosures controls and procedures and/or internal controls requiring improvement we may have to incur additional costs and divert management’s time and attention. Any such action could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, we have not yet fully determined the potential financial and compliance impact of the Dodd — Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act which was enacted in July 2010. As a public entity, the Company expects these new rules and regulations to increase compliance costs as we evaluate the implications of new rules and respond to new requirements. Delays or a failure to comply with the new laws, rules and regulations could result in enforcement actions, the assessment of other penalties and civil suits. These laws and regulations make it more expensive for us under indemnities provided by the Company to our officers and directors. In addition, these new rules and regulations may make it more difficult and expensive to obtain director and officer liability insurance in the future and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve as directors or as executive officers. The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and investors in our common stock may experience substantial losses. The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and may continue to be volatile in the future. The trading price of our common stock could decline or fluctuate in response to a variety of factors, including: • changes in financial estimates of our net sales and operating results; • buy/sell recommendations by securities analysts; • the timing of announcements by us or our competitors concerning significant product developments, acquisitions, financial performance or other matters; • fluctuation in our quarterly operating results; • other economic or external factors; • our failure to meet the performance estimates of securities analysts or investors; • substantial sales of our common stock or the registration of substantial shares for sale; or • general stock market conditions. You may be unable to sell your stock at or above your purchase price. A limited number of our shareholders can exert significant influence over us. As reported in a Schedule 13D filed with SEC various investment funds and accounts managed by Prentice Capital Management, LP (“Prentice”) beneficially own approximately 20.4% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Prentice currently has the right to nominate two members of our Board of Directors. This share ownership would permit Prentice and other large shareholders to exert significant influence over the outcome of shareholder votes, including votes concerning the election of directors, by-law amendments, possible mergers, corporate control contests and other significant corporate transactions. 17 Table of Contents We do not anticipate paying regular dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, so any short-term return on your investment will depend on the market price of our common stock. The covenants in our credit agreement limit our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. No assurance, therefore, may be given that there will be any future dividends declared or that future dividend declarations, if any, will be commensurate in amount or frequency with past dividends. The recently enacted United States federal legislation on healthcare reform and proposed amendments thereto could impact the healthcare benefits required to be provided by us and cause our compensation costs to increase, potentially reducing our net income and adversely affecting our cash flows. The United States federal healthcare legislation enacted in 2010 and proposed amendments thereto contain provisions which could materially impact the future healthcare costs of the Company. While the legislation’s ultimate impact is not yet known, it is possible that these changes could significantly increase our compensation costs which would reduce our net income and adversely affect our cash flows. Various restrictions in our charter documents, policies, New Jersey law and our credit agreement could prevent or delay a change in control of us which is not supported by our board of directors. We are subject to a number of provisions in our charter documents, policies, New Jersey law and our credit agreement that may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or change of control that a stockholder may consider favorable. These anti-takeover provisions include: • advance notice procedures for nominations of candidates for election as directors and for stockholder proposals to be considered at stockholders’ meetings; • the absence of cumulative voting in the election of directors; • covenants in our credit agreement restricting mergers, asset sales and similar transactions and a provision in our credit agreement that triggers an event of default upon certain acquisitions by a person or group of persons with beneficial ownership of 50.1% or more of our outstanding common stock; and • the New Jersey Shareholders’ Protection Act. The New Jersey Shareholders’ Protection Act, as it pertains to us, prohibits, among other things, a merger, consolidation, specified asset sale, specified issuance or transfer of stock, or other similar business combination or disposition between the Company and any beneficial owner of 10% or more of our voting stock for a period of five years after such “interested” stockholder acquires 10% or more of our voting stock, unless the transaction is approved by our board of directors before such interested stockholder acquires 10% or more of our voting stock. In addition, no such transaction shall occur at any time unless: (1) the transaction is approved by our board of directors before the interested stockholder acquires 10% or more of our voting stock, (2) the transaction is approved by the holders of two-thirds of our voting stock excluding shares of our voting stock owned by such interested stockholder or (3) (A) the aggregate consideration received per share by stockholders in such transaction is at least equal to the higher of (i) the highest per share price (including any brokerage commissions, transfer taxes and soliciting dealer’s fees) paid by the interested stockholder (x) within the 5-year period preceding the announcement date of such transaction or (y) within the 5-year period preceding, or in the transaction, in which the stockholder became an interested stockholder, whichever is higher, in each case plus specified interest, less the value of dividends paid since that earliest date, up to the amount of such interest, and (ii) the market value per share of common stock on the announcement date of such transaction or on the date the interested stockholder became an interested stockholder, whichever is higher, plus specified interest, less the value of dividends paid since that date, up to the amount of such interest, (B) the consideration in the transaction received by stockholders is in cash or in the same form as the interested stockholder used to acquire the largest number of shares previously acquired by it, and (C) after the date the interested stockholder became an interested stockholder, and prior to the consummation of the transaction, such interested stockholder has not become the beneficial owner of additional shares of our stock, except (w) as part of the transaction which resulted in the interested stockholder becoming an interested stockholder, (x) by virtue of proportionate stock splits, stock dividends or other distributions not constituting a transaction covered by the New Jersey Shareholders Protection Act, (y) through a transaction meeting the conditions of paragraph (B) above and this paragraph (C) or (z) through purchase by the interested stockholder at any price, which, if that price had been paid in an otherwise permissible transaction under the New Jersey Shareholders’ Protection Act, the announcement date and consummation date of which were the date of that purchase, would have satisfied the requirements of paragraphs (A) and (B) above. 18 Table of Contents We have granted stock options, stock appreciation rights and restricted stock units to certain management employees and directors as compensation which may depress our stock price and result in dilution to our common stockholders. As of December 31, 2010, options to purchase approximately 704,175 shares of our common stock were outstanding, 425,975 of which are currently vested; 1,111,513 stock appreciation rights were outstanding, 222,683 of which are currently vested; and 174,730 unvested restricted stock units are outstanding. Our Equity Incentive Plan allows for the granting of additional incentive stock options, non-qualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, stock units, restricted and non-restricted shares and/or dividend equivalent rights, up to a total of 1.5 million shares (plus additional shares in the event of specified circumstances). If the market price of our common stock is higher than the exercise price of outstanding vested options, holders of those securities may exercise their options and sell the common stock acquired upon exercise of such options in the open market. If the market price of our common stock is higher than the exercise price of outstanding vested stock appreciation rights, holders of those securities may exercise their rights and sell the common stock acquired (to the extent such stock appreciation rights are settled in common stock) in the open market. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market by holders of exercised vested options, vested restricted stock, vested stock appreciation rights and/or vested restricted stock units settled in or exercised for stock may depress the prevailing market price for our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the future sale of our equity securities. Additionally, if the holders of outstanding vested options exercise those options (or if (i) vested stock appreciation rights are exercised and settled in common stock, or (ii) vested restricted stock units are settled in common stock), our common stockholders will incur dilution. The exercise price of all common stock options and stock appreciation rights is subject to adjustment upon stock dividends, splits and combinations, as well as anti-dilution adjustments as set forth in the relevant award agreement. See Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Terrorist attacks and threats may disrupt our operations and negatively impact our revenues, costs and stock price. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 in the U.S., the U.S. response to those attacks and the resulting decline in consumer confidence had a substantial adverse effect on the U.S. economy. Any similar future events may disrupt our operations directly or indirectly by affecting the operations of our customers. In addition, these events have had and may continue to have an adverse impact on the U.S. economy in general and on consumer confidence and spending in particular, which could harm our revenues. Any new terrorist events or threats could have a negative effect on the U.S. and world financial markets generally, which could reduce the price of our common stock and may limit the capital resources available to us and others with whom we conduct business. If any of these events occur, they could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and could result in increased volatility in the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 