ITEM 1A. Risk Factors This section discusses the most significant factors that affect our business, operations and financial condition. It does not describe all risks and uncertainties applicable to us, our industry or ownership of our securities. If any of the following risks, as well as other risks and uncertainties that are not yet identified or that we currently think are not material, actually occur, we could be materially adversely affected. In that event, the value of our securities could decline. We have grouped these risk factors into three general categories: • Risks arising from our business; • Risks arising from our capital structure; and • Risks arising from our status as a REIT. Risks Arising from Our Business We depend on Kindred and Brookdale Senior Living for a significant portion of our revenues and operating income; Any inability or unwillingness by Kindred or Brookdale Senior Living to satisfy its obligations under its agreements with us could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. We lease a substantial portion of our properties to Kindred and Brookdale Senior Living, and they are each a significant source of our total revenues and operating income. Since the Kindred Master Leases and our leases with Brookdale Senior Living are triple-net leases, we depend on Kindred and Brookdale Senior Living not only for rental income, but also to pay insurance, taxes, utilities and maintenance and repair expenses in connection with the leased properties. Any inability or unwillingness by Kindred or Brookdale Senior Living to make rental payments to us or to otherwise satisfy its obligations under its agreements with us could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. Any failure by Kindred or Brookdale Senior Living to effectively conduct its operations could adversely affect its business reputation and ability to attract and retain patients and residents in its properties and also could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. Moreover, Kindred and certain subsidiaries of Brookdale Senior Living, namely Brookdale and Alterra, have agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities arising in connection with their respective businesses. We cannot assure you that Kindred or such subsidiaries of Brookdale Senior Living will have sufficient assets, income, access to financing and insurance coverage to enable it to satisfy these indemnification obligations. The properties managed by Sunrise account for a significant portion of our revenues and operating income; Adverse developments in Sunrise’s business and affairs or financial condition could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. Sunrise currently manages 79 of our seniors housing communities pursuant to long-term management agreements. These properties represent a substantial portion of our portfolio, based on their gross book value, and account for a significant portion of our revenues and operating income. Although we have various rights as owner under the Sunrise management agreements, we rely on Sunrise’s personnel, good faith, expertise, historical performance, technical resources and information systems, proprietary information and judgment to manage our properties efficiently and effectively. We also rely on Sunrise to set resident fees, to provide accurate property-level financial results for our properties in a timely manner and to otherwise operate those properties in 26 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements accordance with the terms of our management agreements and in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. For example, we depend on Sunrise’s ability to attract and retain skilled management personnel who are responsible for the day-to-day operations of our seniors housing communities. A shortage of nurses or other trained personnel or general inflationary pressures may force Sunrise to enhance its pay and benefits package to compete effectively for such personnel, and Sunrise may not be able to offset such added costs by increasing the rates charged to residents. Any increase in these costs, which are included in the operating budget for each property, any failure by Sunrise to attract and retain qualified personnel, or any change in Sunrise’s senior management could adversely affect the income we receive from these properties and have a Material Adverse Effect on us. In addition, any adverse developments in Sunrise’s business and affairs, financial strength or ability to operate our properties efficiently and effectively could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. As a result of the current economic and credit crisis and Sunrise’s weakened financial condition, as disclosed in Sunrise’s filings with the Commission and other public announcements, Sunrise may experience significant financial, legal, accounting or regulatory difficulties, which could result in, among other adverse events, acceleration of its indebtedness, the inability to renew or extend its revolving credit facility, the enforcement of default remedies by its counterparties or the commencement of insolvency proceedings under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code by or against Sunrise. Any one or a combination of these events could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. The severely weakened economy could adversely impact our operating income and earnings, as well as the results of operations of our tenants and operators, which could impair their ability to meet their obligations to us. Continued concerns about the uncertainty over whether our economy will be adversely affected by inflation, deflation or stagflation, and the systemic impact of increased unemployment, volatile energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market and a severely distressed real estate market have contributed to increased market volatility and weakened business and consumer confidence. This difficult operating environment could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and/or increase our costs at our Sunrise-managed properties, thereby reducing our operating income and earnings. It could also have an adverse impact on the ability of our tenants and operators to maintain occupancy and rates in our properties, which could harm their financial condition. These economic conditions could cause us to experience operating deficiencies at our Sunrise-managed properties and/or cause our tenants and operators to be unable to meet their rental payments and other obligations due to us, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. We face potential adverse consequences of bankruptcy or insolvency by our tenants, operators, borrowers, managers and other obligors. We are exposed to the risk that our tenants, operators, borrowers, managers or other obligors could become bankrupt or insolvent. Although our lease, loan and management agreements provide us with the right to exercise certain remedies in the event of default on the obligations owing to us or upon the occurrence of certain insolvency events, the bankruptcy and insolvency laws afford certain rights to a party that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization. For example, a debtor-lessee may reject its lease with us in a bankruptcy proceeding. In such a case, our claim against the debtor-lessee for unpaid and future rents would be limited by the statutory cap of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. This statutory cap might be substantially less than the remaining rent actually owed under the lease, and it is quite likely that any claim we might have for unpaid rent would not be paid in full. In addition, a debtor-lessee may assert in a bankruptcy proceeding that its lease should be re-characterized as a financing agreement. If such a claim is successful, our rights and remedies as a lender, compared to a landlord, would generally be more limited. Similarly, if a debtor-manager seeks bankruptcy protection, the automatic stay provisions of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code would preclude us from enforcing our remedies against the manager unless relief is first obtained from the court having jurisdiction over the bankruptcy case. In the event of an obligor bankruptcy, we may also be required to fund certain expenses and obligations (e.g., real estate taxes, debt costs and maintenance expenses) to preserve the value of our properties, avoid the imposition of liens on a property and/or transition a property to a new tenant, operator or manager. 27 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We may be unable to reposition our properties on as favorable terms, or at all, if we have to replace any of our tenants or operators, and we may be subject to delays, limitations and expenses in repositioning our assets. We cannot predict whether our tenants will renew existing leases upon the expiration of the terms thereof. If the Kindred Master Leases, our leases with Brookdale Senior Living or any of our other leases are not renewed, we would be required to reposition those properties with another tenant or operator. In certain circumstances, we could also exercise our right to replace any tenant or operator upon a default under the terms of the applicable lease. In case of non-renewal, our tenants are required to continue to perform all obligations (including the payment of all rental amounts) for any assets that are not renewed until expiration of the then current lease term. We generally have one year to arrange for the repositioning of non-renewed assets prior to the expiration of the lease term. If we exercise our right to replace a tenant upon a default under a lease, during any period that we are attempting to locate a suitable replacement tenant or operator, there could be a decrease or cessation of rental payments on those properties. We cannot assure you that we would be successful in identifying suitable replacements or entering into leases with new tenants or operators on terms as favorable to us as our current leases, if at all. In this event, we may be required to fund certain expenses and obligations (e.g., real estate taxes, debt costs and maintenance expenses) to preserve the value and avoid the imposition of liens on properties while they are being repositioned. Our ability to reposition our properties with another suitable tenant or operator could be significantly delayed or limited by various state licensing receivership, CON or other laws, as well as by the Medicare and Medicaid change-of-ownership rules. We could also incur substantial additional expenses in connection with any licensing, receivership or change-of-ownership proceedings. These delays, limitations and expenses could materially delay or impact our ability to reposition our properties, collect rent, obtain possession of leased properties or otherwise to exercise remedies for tenant default and could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. Our counterparties may not be able to satisfy their obligations to us due to the continued turmoil and uncertainty in the capital markets. Continued turmoil and uncertainty in the capital markets and the tightening of the credit markets have made obtaining new capital more challenging and more expensive. Interest rate fluctuations, financial market volatility or credit market disruptions could limit the ability of our tenants, operators and managers to obtain credit to finance their businesses on acceptable terms, which could adversely affect their ability to satisfy their obligations to us. Similarly, if any of our other counterparties, such as letter of credit issuers, insurance carriers, banking institutions, title companies and escrow agents, experiences difficulty in accessing capital or other sources of funds or fails to remain a viable entity, it could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. We may be unable to successfully foreclose on the collateral securing our real estate loan investments, and even if we are successful in our foreclosure efforts, we may be unable to successfully reposition the properties, which may adversely affect our ability to recover our investments. If a borrower defaults under any of our mortgage loans, we may have to foreclose on the loan or protect our interest by acquiring title to the property and thereafter making substantial improvements or repairs in order to maximize the property’s investment potential. The borrower may contest enforcement of foreclosure or other remedies, seek bankruptcy protection against our exercise of enforcement or other remedies and/or bring claims for lender liability in response to actions to enforce mortgage obligations. If the borrower seeks bankruptcy protection, the automatic stay provisions of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code would preclude us from enforcing foreclosure or other remedies against the borrower unless relief is first obtained from the court having jurisdiction over the bankruptcy case. Foreclosure-related costs, high loan-to-value ratios or declines in the value of the property may prevent us from realizing an amount equal to our mortgage loans upon foreclosure, and we may be required to record valuation allowance for such losses. Even if we are able to successfully foreclose on the collateral securing our real estate loan investments, we may inherit properties that we are unable to expeditiously reposition with new tenants or operators, if at all, which would adversely affect our ability to recover our investment. 28 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We are exposed to various operational risks, liabilities and claims with respect to our operating assets that may adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and/or increase our costs and could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. We are exposed to various operational risks, liabilities and claims with respect to our operating assets, including our Sunrise-managed properties and our MOBs, that may adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and/or increase our costs, thereby reducing our profitability. These risks include fluctuations in occupancy levels, the inability to achieve economic resident fees (including anticipated increases in those fees), rent control regulations, increases in costs of materials, energy, labor (as a result of unionization or otherwise) and services, national and regional economic conditions, the imposition of new or increased taxes, capital expenditure requirements, professional and general liability claims and the availability and costs of professional and general liability insurance. Any one or a combination of these factors could result in operating deficiencies at our operating assets which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. We may encounter certain risks when implementing our business strategy to pursue investments in, and/or acquisitions or development of, additional seniors housing and/or healthcare assets. We intend to continue to pursue investments in, and/or acquisitions or development of, additional seniors housing and/or healthcare assets domestically and internationally, subject to the contractual restrictions contained in our unsecured revolving credit facilities and the indentures governing our outstanding senior notes. Investments in and acquisitions of these properties entail general risks associated with any real estate investment, including risks that the investment will fail to perform in accordance with expectations, that the estimates of the cost of improvements necessary for acquired properties will prove inaccurate or that the tenant, operator or manager will fail to meet performance expectations. In addition, any new development projects that we pursue would be subject to risks of construction delays or cost overruns that may increase project costs, new project commencement risks such as receipt of zoning, occupancy and other required governmental approvals and permits and the risk of incurring development costs in connection with projects that are not pursued to completion. Investments in and acquisitions of properties outside the United States would also expose us to legal, economic and market risks associated with operating in foreign countries, such as currency and tax risks. If we incur additional debt or issue equity securities, or both, to finance future investments, acquisitions or development activity, our leverage could increase or our per share financial results may be reduced. When we attempt to finance, acquire or develop properties, we compete with healthcare providers, other healthcare REITs, healthcare lenders, real estate partnerships, banks, insurance companies, private equity and other investors, some of whom are significantly larger and have substantially greater financial resources than we do. Our ability to compete successfully for investment and acquisition opportunities is affected by many factors, including our cost of obtaining debt and equity capital at rates comparable to or better than our competitors. Increased competition makes it more challenging for us to identify and successfully capitalize on opportunities that meet our business objectives and could improve the bargaining power of property owners seeking to sell, thereby impeding our investment, acquisition and development activities. See “Business—Competition” included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Even if we succeed in identifying and competing for such opportunities, we could encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating to the properties or businesses we invest in or acquire, the investment or acquisition could divert management’s attention from our existing business, or the value of such investment or acquisition could decrease substantially, some or all of which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. As we invest in, and/or acquire or develop, additional seniors housing and/or healthcare assets or businesses, we expect that the number of operators of our properties and, potentially, our business segments will increase. We cannot assure you that we will have the capabilities to successfully monitor and manage a portfolio of properties with a growing number of operators and/or manage such businesses. Moreover, in some cases, acquisitions require the integration of companies that have previously operated independently. Successful integration of the operations of those companies will depend primarily on our ability to consolidate operations, 29 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements systems, procedures and personnel to eliminate redundancies and costs. Potential difficulties we could encounter during integration include the loss of key employees, disruption of our business, possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, and the assumption of unexpected liabilities. In addition, projections of estimated future revenues, costs savings or operating metrics that we develop during the due diligence and integration planning process could prove to be inaccurate. If we experience any of these difficulties, or if we later discover additional liabilities or experience unforeseen costs relating to acquired companies, we might not achieve the economic benefit we expect from acquisitions, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. Our investments are concentrated in seniors housing and healthcare real estate, making us more vulnerable economically than if our investments were diversified. We invest primarily in real estate—in particular, seniors housing and healthcare properties. This concentration exposes us to all of the risks inherent in investments in real estate to a greater degree than if our portfolio was diversified, and these risks are magnified by the fact that our real estate investments are limited to properties used in the seniors housing or healthcare industries. If the current downturn in the real estate industry continues or intensifies, it could adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to sell properties for a price or on terms acceptable to us. A downturn in the seniors housing or healthcare industries could negatively impact our operating income and earnings, as well as our operators’ ability to make rental payments to us, which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, our ability to quickly sell or exchange any of our properties in response to changes in economic or other conditions will be limited. We cannot give any assurances that we will recognize full value for any property that we are required to sell for liquidity reasons. This inability to respond quickly to changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, the healthcare industry is highly regulated, and changes in government regulation and reimbursement in the past have had material adverse consequences on the industry in general, which consequences may not have been contemplated by lawmakers and regulators. We cannot assure you that future changes in government regulation of healthcare will not have a material adverse effect on the healthcare industry, including our seniors housing and healthcare operations, tenants and operators. Our ability to invest in non-seniors housing or non-healthcare properties is restricted by the terms of our unsecured revolving credit facilities, so these adverse effects may be more pronounced than if we diversified our investments outside of real estate or outside of seniors housing or healthcare. Our tenants, operators and managers may be adversely affected by increasing healthcare regulation and enforcement. Over the last several years, the regulatory environment surrounding the long-term healthcare industry has intensified both in the amount and type of regulations and in the efforts to enforce those regulations. This is particularly true for large for-profit, multi-facility providers like Kindred, Brookdale Senior Living and Sunrise. The extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting the healthcare industry include those relating to, among other things, licensure, conduct of operations, ownership of facilities, addition of facilities and equipment, allowable costs, services, prices for services, qualified beneficiaries, quality of care, patient rights, fraudulent or abusive behavior, and financial and other arrangements which may be entered into by healthcare providers. Changes in enforcement policies by federal and state governments have resulted in a significant increase in the number of inspections, citations of regulatory deficiencies and other regulatory sanctions, including terminations from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, bars on Medicare and Medicaid payments for new admissions, civil monetary penalties and even criminal penalties. See “Governmental Regulation—Healthcare Regulation” included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 30 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements If our tenants, operators and managers fail to comply with the extensive laws, regulations and other requirements applicable to their businesses and the operation of our properties, they could become ineligible to receive reimbursement from governmental and private third-party payor programs, face bans on admissions of new patients or residents, suffer civil and/or criminal penalties and/or be required to make significant changes to their operations. Our tenants, operators and managers also could be forced to expend considerable resources responding to an investigation or other enforcement action under applicable laws or regulations. In such event, the results of operations and financial condition of our tenants, operators and managers and the results of operations of our properties operated or managed by those entities could be adversely affected, which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. We are unable to predict the future course of federal, state and local regulation or legislation, including the Medicare and Medicaid statutes and regulations, and any changes in the regulatory framework could likewise have a material adverse effect on our tenants, operators and managers, which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. Changes in the reimbursement rates or methods of payment from third-party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, could have a material adverse effect on certain of our tenants and operators. Kindred and certain of our other tenants and operators rely on reimbursement from third-party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, for substantially all of their revenues. There continue to be various federal and state legislative and regulatory proposals to implement cost-containment measures that limit payments to healthcare providers. See “Governmental Regulation—Healthcare Regulation” included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, private third-party payors have continued their efforts to control healthcare costs. We cannot assure you that adequate reimbursement levels will be available for services to be provided by Kindred and our other tenants and operators which are currently being reimbursed by Medicare, Medicaid or private payors. Significant limits by governmental and private third-party payors on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material adverse effect on the liquidity, financial condition and results of operations of certain of our tenants and operators, which could affect adversely their ability to make rental payments under, and otherwise comply with the terms of, their leases with us. We have only limited rights to terminate our management agreements with Sunrise, and we may be unable to replace Sunrise if our management agreements are terminated or not renewed. We and Sunrise are parties to long-term management agreements pursuant to which Sunrise currently provides comprehensive property management services with respect to 79 of our seniors housing communities. Each management agreement has a term of 30 years, but may be terminated by us upon the occurrence of an event of default by Sunrise in the performance of a material covenant or term thereof (including, in certain circumstances, the revocation of any licenses or certificates necessary for operation), subject in each case to Sunrise’s rights to cure deficiencies. Each management agreement may also be terminated upon the occurrence of certain insolvency events relating to Sunrise. In addition, if a minimum number of properties fail to achieve a targeted NOI level for a given period, then we may terminate the management agreement on each property in such pool. This targeted NOI level for each property is based upon an expected operating income projection set at the commencement of the management agreement for the applicable property, with such projection escalating annually. However, various legal and contractual considerations may limit or delay our exercise of any or all of these termination rights. In the event that our management agreements with Sunrise are terminated for any reason or are not renewed upon expiration of their terms, we will have to find another manager for the properties covered by those agreements. We believe there are a number of qualified national and regional seniors care providers that would be interested in managing our Sunrise-managed properties. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to locate another suitable manager or, if we are successful in locating such a manager, that such manager will manage the properties effectively. Any such inability or lengthy delay in replacing Sunrise as manager following termination or non-renewal of our management agreements could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. 31 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our investments in joint ventures could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority regarding major decisions, our reliance on our joint venture partners’ financial condition, any disputes that may arise between us and our joint venture partners and our exposure to potential losses from the actions of our joint venture partners. As of December 31, 2009, we had 75% to 85% interests in 60 seniors housing communities owned in joint ventures with Sunrise, and we had controlling interests in six MOBs owned through joint ventures with partners who provide management and leasing services for the properties. These joint ventures involve risks not present with respect to our wholly owned properties, including the following: • We may be prevented from taking actions that are opposed by our joint venture partners. As the managing member or general partner, we have authority to make all decisions for our Sunrise joint ventures except for a limited set of major decisions, which generally include: (a) the merger or disposition of substantially all the assets of the joint venture; (b) the sale of additional interests in the joint venture; (c) the dissolution of the joint venture; (d) the disposition of a property owned by the joint venture; and (e) the acquisition of any real property by the joint venture. Under our MOB joint venture arrangements, we may share decision-making authority with our joint venture partners regarding major decisions affecting the ownership or operation of the joint venture and any property owned by the joint venture, such as the sale or financing of the property or the making of additional capital contributions for the benefit of the property; • Our ability to transfer our interest in a joint venture to a third party may be restricted. We can generally transfer our interest in the Sunrise joint ventures, without consent, to anyone other than large seniors housing operators or their majority investors. Prior consent of our MOB joint venture partners may be required for a sale or transfer to a third party of our interests in such joint ventures; • Our joint venture partners might become bankrupt or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions, which may delay construction or development of a property or increase our financial commitment to the joint venture. Generally, in our Sunrise joint ventures, if either member fails to make a required capital contribution to a joint venture after notice and a cure period, the non-defaulting member may (i) revoke the capital contribution funding notice, (ii) advance to the joint venture the amount of the required capital contribution on behalf of the defaulting member in the form of a loan to the defaulting member, with all of the defaulting member’s subsequent distributions being applied to the loan until repayment in full, or (iii) advance the capital on behalf of the defaulting member with a recalculation of each member’s proportionate interest in the joint venture pursuant to the applicable formula in the agreements. Many of our Sunrise joint venture agreements provide for a punitive reduction in the defaulting member’s proportionate interest in the event of an advance of capital by a non-defaulting member pursuant to option (iii); • Our joint venture partners may have business interests or goals with respect to the property that conflict with our business interests and goals, which could increase the likelihood of disputes regarding the ownership, management or disposition of the property; • Disputes may develop with our joint venture partners over decisions affecting the property or the joint venture, which may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and distract our officers and/or directors from focusing their time and effort on our business and possibly disrupt the day-to-day operations of the property, such as delaying the implementation of important decisions until the conflict or dispute is resolved; and • We may suffer losses as a result of the actions of our joint venture partners with respect to our joint venture investments. 32 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We may be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. We currently own twelve seniors housing communities in the Canadian provinces of Ontario and British Columbia. As a result, we are subject to fluctuations in U.S. and Canadian exchange rates which may, from time to time, have an impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Increases or decreases in the value of the Canadian dollar will impact the amount of our net income. In addition, if we increase our international presence through investments in, and/or acquisitions or development of, seniors housing and/or healthcare assets outside the United States, we may transact additional business in currencies other than U.S. or Canadian dollars. Although we may decide to pursue hedging alternatives, including borrowing in local currencies, to protect against foreign currency fluctuations, we cannot assure you that any such fluctuations will not have a Material Adverse Effect on us. Our revenues from the seniors housing communities managed by Sunrise are dependent on private pay sources; Events which adversely affect the ability of seniors to afford our daily resident fees could cause our occupancy rates, resident fee revenues and results of operations to decline. By and large, assisted and independent living services currently are not reimbursable under government reimbursement programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid. Hence, substantially all of the resident fee revenues generated by our Sunrise-managed properties are derived from private pay sources consisting of income or assets of residents or their family members. In general, due to the expense associated with building new properties and the staffing and other costs of providing services at these properties, only seniors with income or assets meeting or exceeding the comparable median in the regions where our properties are located typically can afford to pay the daily resident and care fees. The current economic downturn and decline in the housing market, as well as other events such as changes in demographics, could adversely affect the ability of seniors to afford these fees. If Sunrise is unable to attract and retain seniors with sufficient income, assets or other resources required to pay the fees associated with assisted and independent living services, our occupancy rates, resident fee revenues and results of operations could decline, which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. Our ownership of properties through ground leases exposes us to the loss of such properties upon breach or termination of the ground leases and limits our uses of these properties and restricts our ability to sell or otherwise transfer such properties. We have acquired an interest in certain of our properties by acquiring a leasehold interest in the property on which the building is located, and we may acquire additional properties in the future through the purchase of interests in ground leases. As the lessee under a ground lease, we are exposed to the possibility of losing the property upon termination of the ground lease or an earlier breach of the ground lease by us. In addition, many of our ground leases impose significant limitations on our uses of the subject properties and restrict our right to convey our interest in such ground leases, which may limit our ability to timely sell or exchange the properties and impair their value. Overbuilding in markets in which our seniors housing communities and MOBs are located could adversely affect our future occupancy rates, operating margins and profitability. Barriers to entry in the assisted living and MOB industries are not substantial. Consequently, the development of new seniors housing communities or MOBs could outpace demand. If the development of new seniors housing communities or MOBs outpaces demand for those asset types in the markets in which our properties are located, those markets may become saturated. Overbuilding in our markets, therefore, could cause us to experience decreased occupancy, reduced operating margins and lower profitability. Termination of resident lease agreements could adversely affect our revenues and earnings. Applicable regulations governing assisted living communities generally require written resident lease agreements with each resident. Most of these regulations also require that each resident have the right to terminate the resident lease agreement for any reason on reasonable notice. Consistent with these regulations, the 33 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements resident lease agreements signed by Sunrise with respect to our properties managed by it generally allow residents to terminate their lease agreements on 30 days’ notice. Thus, Sunrise cannot contract with residents to stay for longer periods of time, unlike typical apartment leasing arrangements with terms of up to one year or longer. In addition, the resident turnover rate in our seniors housing communities may be difficult to predict. If a large number of resident lease agreements terminate at or around the same time, and if our units remained unoccupied, then our revenues and earnings could be adversely affected, which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. The amount and scope of insurance coverage provided by our policies and policies maintained by our tenants, operators and managers may not adequately insure against losses. We maintain and/or require in our existing leases and other agreements that our tenants, operators and managers maintain all applicable lines of insurance on our properties and their operations. Although we continually review the insurance maintained by us and our tenants, operators and managers and believe the coverage provided to be customary for similarly situated companies in our industry, we cannot assure you that in the future such insurance will be available at a reasonable cost or that we or our tenants, operators and managers will be able to maintain adequate levels of insurance coverage. We also cannot give any assurances as to the future financial viability of our insurers or that the insurance coverage provided will fully cover all losses on our properties upon the occurrence of a catastrophic event. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could incur substantial liability or lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenues from the property. In such an event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. We cannot assure you that material uninsured losses, or losses in excess of insurance proceeds, will not occur in the future. Significant legal actions could subject our tenants, operators and managers to increased operating costs and substantial uninsured liabilities, which could materially adversely affect their liquidity, financial condition and results of operation. Although claims and costs of professional liability insurance seem to be growing at a slower pace, our tenants, operators and managers continue to experience increases in both the number and size of professional liability claims. In addition to large compensatory claims, plaintiffs’ attorneys continue to seek significant punitive damages and attorneys’ fees. Due to historically high frequency and severity of professional liability claims against healthcare providers, the availability of professional liability insurance has been restricted and the premiums on such insurance coverage remain very high. As a result, the insurance coverage of our tenants, operators and managers might not cover all claims against them or continue to be available to them at a reasonable cost. If our tenants, operators and managers are unable to maintain adequate insurance coverage or are required to pay punitive damages, they may be exposed to substantial liabilities. In addition, many healthcare providers are pursuing different organizational and corporate structures coupled with self-insurance programs that provide less insurance coverage. For example, Kindred insures its professional liability risks, in part, through a wholly owned, limited purpose insurance company, which insures initial losses up to specified coverage levels per occurrence with no aggregate coverage limit. Coverage for losses in excess of those per occurrence levels is maintained through unaffiliated commercial insurance carriers up to an aggregate limit, and all claims in excess of the aggregate limit are then insured by the limited purpose insurance company. Our tenants, operators and managers, like Kindred, that insure any part of their general and professional liability risks through their own captive limited purpose entities generally estimate the future cost of general and professional liability through actuarial studies which rely primarily on historical data. However, due to the rise in the number and severity of professional claims against healthcare providers, these actuarial studies may underestimate the future cost of claims, and reserves for future claims may not be adequate to cover the actual cost of those claims. 34 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements As a result, the tenants, operators and managers of our properties could incur large funded and unfunded professional liability expense, which could materially adversely affect their liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, and, in turn, their ability to make rental payments under, or otherwise comply with the terms of, their leases with us or, with regard to our Sunrise-managed properties, our results of operations, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. Our operators may be sued under a federal whistleblower statute. Our operators who engage in business with the federal government may be sued under a federal whistleblower statute designed to combat fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry. See “Governmental Regulation—Healthcare Regulation” included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These lawsuits can involve significant monetary damages and award bounties to private plaintiffs who successfully bring these suits. If any of these lawsuits were to be brought against our operators, such suits combined with increased operating costs and substantial uninsured liabilities could have a material adverse effect on the operators’ liquidity, financial condition and results of operation and on their ability to make rental payments to us, which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. If any of our properties are found to be contaminated, or if we become involved in any environmental disputes, we could incur substantial liabilities and costs. Under federal and state environmental laws and regulations, a current or former owner of real property may be liable for costs related to the investigation, removal and remediation of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum that are released from or are present at or under, or that are disposed of in connection with such property. Owners of real property may also face other environmental liabilities, including government fines and penalties imposed by regulatory authorities and damages for injuries to persons, property or natural resources. Environmental laws and regulations often impose liability without regard to whether the owner was aware of, or was responsible for, the presence, release or disposal of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum. In certain circumstances, environmental liability may result from the activities of a current or former operator of the property. Although we are generally indemnified by the current operators of our properties for contamination caused by them, these indemnities may not adequately cover all environmental costs. See “Governmental Regulation—Environmental Regulation” included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to retain key personnel, and the loss of any one of them could adversely impact our business. The success of our business depends, in part, on the leadership and performance of our executive management team and key employees. Our future performance will be substantially dependent on our ability to retain and motivate these individuals. Competition for these individuals is intense, and we cannot give any assurances that we will retain our key officers and employees or that we can attract or retain other highly qualified individuals in the future. Losing any one or more of these persons could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to provide a report by management on internal control over financial reporting, including management’s assessment of the effectiveness of such control. Changes to our business will necessitate ongoing changes to our internal control systems and processes. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any 35 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely harmed and we could fail to meet our reporting obligations. If the liabilities we have assumed in connection with acquisitions are greater than expected, or if there are unknown liabilities, our business could be materially and adversely affected. We have assumed certain liabilities in connection with our past acquisitions, including, in some cases, contingent liabilities. As we integrate these acquisitions, we may learn additional information about the seller and liabilities that adversely affects us, such as: • Liabilities relating to the clean-up or remediation of undisclosed environmental conditions; • Unasserted claims of vendors or other persons dealing with the seller; • Liabilities, claims and litigation, whether or not incurred in the ordinary course of business, relating to periods prior to our acquisition; • Claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the seller; and • Liabilities for taxes relating to periods prior to our acquisition. As a result, we cannot assure you that our past acquisitions will be successful or will not, in fact, harm our business. Among other things, if the liabilities we have assumed are greater than expected, or if there are obligations relating to the acquired properties of which we were not aware at the time we completed the acquisition, our business could be materially adversely affected. Risks Arising from Our Capital Structure Limitations on our ability to access capital could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our debt payments, make distributions to our stockholders or make future investments necessary to implement our business plan. In order to meet our debt payments, make distributions to our stockholders or make future investments necessary to implement our business plan, we may need to raise additional capital. Over the past few years, the global capital and credit markets have experienced a period of extraordinary turmoil and upheaval, characterized by the bankruptcy, failure or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the U.S. federal government. This disruption in the credit markets, the repricing of credit risk and the deterioration of the financial and real estate markets have created difficult conditions for REITs and other companies to access capital or other sources of funds. These conditions include greater stock price volatility, significantly less liquidity, widening of credit spreads and a lack of price transparency. It is difficult to predict how long these conditions will persist and the extent to which our results of operation and financial condition may be adversely affected. While we currently have no reason to believe that we will be unable to access our unsecured revolving credit facilities in the future, concern about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of borrowers specifically has led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce and, in some cases, cease funding to borrowers. In addition, the financial institutions that are parties to our unsecured revolving credit facilities might have incurred losses or might have reduced capital reserves on account of their prior lending to borrowers, their holdings of certain mortgage securities or their other financial relationships, in part because of the general weakening of the U.S. economy and the increased financial instability of many borrowers. As a result, these financial institutions might be or become capital constrained and might tighten their lending standards, or become insolvent. If they experience shortages of capital and liquidity, or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests from other borrowers within a short period of time, these lenders might not be able or willing to honor their funding commitments to us, which would adversely affect our ability to draw on our 36 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements unsecured revolving credit facilities and, over time, could negatively impact our ability to consummate acquisitions, repay indebtedness as it matures, fund capital expenditures or make distributions to our stockholders. Continued adverse conditions in the credit markets in future years could also adversely affect the availability and terms of future borrowings, renewals or refinancings. Our options for addressing such capital constraints would include without limitation (i) obtaining commitments from the remaining banks in our lending group or from new banks to fund increased amounts under the terms of our unsecured revolving credit facilities, (ii) accessing the public capital markets, (iii) obtaining secured loans from government-sponsored entities, pension funds or similar sources, (iv) decreasing or eliminating our distributions to our stockholders or paying taxable stock dividends, and/or (v) delaying or ceasing our acquisition and investment activity. As with other public companies, the availability of debt and equity capital depends, in part, on the trading levels of our bonds and the market price of our common stock, which, in turn, depends upon various market conditions that change from time to time. Among the market conditions and other factors that may affect our bond trading levels and the market price of our common stock is the market’s perception of our financial condition, our growth potential and our current and future earnings and cash distributions. Our failure to meet the market’s expectation with regard to future earnings and cash distributions would likely adversely affect our bond trading levels and the market price of our common stock. If we cannot access capital or we cannot access capital at an acceptable cost, we may be required to liquidate one or more investments in properties at times that may not permit us to realize the maximum return on those investments, which could also result in adverse tax consequences to us. Restrictions on our uses and right to transfer our properties under certain healthcare regulations, ground leases, mortgages and other agreements to which our properties may be subject could adversely impact our ability to timely liquidate those investments and could impair the value of our properties. We cannot assure you that we will be able to raise the necessary capital to meet our debt service obligations, make distributions to our stockholders or make future investments necessary to implement our business plan, and the failure to do so could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. We may become more leveraged. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $2.7 billion of indebtedness. Our unsecured revolving credit facilities and the indentures governing our outstanding senior notes permit us to incur substantial additional debt, and we may borrow additional funds, which may include secured borrowings. A high level of indebtedness would require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of debt service, thereby reducing the funds available to implement our business strategy and to make distributions to stockholders. A high level of indebtedness could also have the following consequences: • Potential limits on our ability to adjust rapidly to changing market conditions and vulnerability in the event of a downturn in general economic conditions or in the real estate and/or healthcare industries; • Potential impairment of our ability to obtain additional financing for our business strategy; and • Potential downgrade in the rating of our debt securities by one or more rating agencies, which could have the effect of, among other things, increasing our cost of borrowing. In addition, from time to time we mortgage our properties to secure payment of indebtedness. If we are unable to meet our mortgage payments, then the encumbered properties could be foreclosed upon or transferred to the mortgagee with a consequent loss of income and asset value. A foreclosure on one or more of our properties could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. We are exposed to increases in interest rates, which could reduce our profitability and adversely impact our ability to refinance existing debt, sell assets or engage in acquisition and investment activity, and our decision to hedge against interest rate risk might not be effective. We receive a significant portion of our revenues by leasing our assets under long-term triple-net leases in which the rental rate is generally fixed with annual rent escalations, subject to certain limitations. Certain of our debt obligations are floating rate obligations with interest rate and related payments that vary with the movement 37 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements of LIBOR, Bankers’ Acceptance or other indexes. The generally fixed rate nature of our revenues and the variable rate nature of certain of our obligations create interest rate risk. Although our operating assets provide a partial hedge against interest rate fluctuations, if interest rates rise, our interest costs for our existing floating rate debt and any new debt we incur would also increase. This increased cost could have the effect of reducing our profitability or making our lease and other revenues insufficient to meet our obligations, and could make the financing of any acquisition or investment activity more costly. Further, rising interest rates could limit our ability to refinance existing debt when it matures or cause us to pay higher rates upon refinancing. An increase in interest rates may also decrease the amount third parties are willing to pay for our assets, thereby limiting our ability to reposition our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. We may seek to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility by using hedging arrangements that involve risk, including the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements, that these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes, that the amount of income we may earn from hedging transactions may be limited by federal tax provisions governing REITs, and that these arrangements may result in higher interest rates than we would otherwise have. Moreover, no amount of hedging activity can completely insulate us from the risks associated with changes in interest rates. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate risk, if we choose to engage in such activities, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Covenants in our unsecured revolving credit facilities, the indentures governing our senior notes, our mortgage loans and other debt instruments limit our operational flexibility, and a covenant breach could materially adversely affect our operations. The terms of our unsecured revolving credit facilities, the indentures governing our outstanding senior notes, our mortgage loans and other debt instruments require us to comply with a number of customary financial and other covenants, such as maintaining debt service coverage, leverage ratios and net worth requirements. Our continued ability to incur indebtedness and operate in general is subject to compliance with these covenants, which limit our operational flexibility. Breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under the applicable debt instruments, in addition to any other indebtedness cross-defaulted against such instruments, even if we satisfy our payment obligations. Financial and other covenants that limit our operational flexibility, as well as defaults resulting from a breach of any of these covenants in our debt instruments, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. Risks Arising from Our Status as a REIT Loss of our status as a REIT would have significant adverse consequences to us and the value of our common stock. If we lose our status as a REIT, we will face serious tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available for satisfying our obligations and for distribution to our stockholders for each of the years involved because: • We would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates; • We also could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and • Unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we could not elect to be subject to tax as a REIT for four taxable years following the year during which we were disqualified. In addition, in such event we would no longer be required to pay dividends to maintain REIT status. As a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT also could impair our ability to implement our business strategy and would adversely affect the value of our common stock. 38 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to remain qualified as a REIT. In addition, new legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may adversely affect our investors or our ability to remain qualified as a REIT for tax purposes. Although we believe that we qualify as a REIT, we cannot assure you that we will continue to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT for tax purposes. The 90% distribution requirement will decrease our liquidity and may limit our ability to engage in otherwise beneficial transactions. To comply with the 90% distribution requirement applicable to REITs and to avoid the nondeductible excise tax, we must make distributions to our stockholders. See “Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations—Requirements for Qualification as a REIT—Annual Distribution Requirements” included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The indentures governing our outstanding senior notes permit us to make annual distributions to our stockholders in an amount equal to the minimum amount necessary to maintain our REIT status so long as the ratio of our Debt to Adjusted Total Assets (as each term is defined in the indentures) does not exceed 60% and to make additional distributions if we pass certain other financial tests. However, distributions may limit our ability to rely upon rental payments from our properties or subsequently acquired properties to finance investments, acquisitions or new developments. Although we anticipate that we generally will have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement, it is possible that, from time to time, we may not have sufficient cash or other liquid assets to meet the 90% distribution requirement. This may be due to the timing differences between the actual receipt of income and actual payment of deductible expenses, on the one hand, and the inclusion of that income and deduction of those expenses in arriving at our taxable income, on the other hand. In addition, non-deductible expenses such as principal amortization or repayments or capital expenditures in excess of non-cash deductions also may cause us to fail to have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement. In the event that timing differences occur or we decide to retain cash or to distribute such greater amount as may be necessary to avoid income and excise taxation, we may borrow funds, issue additional equity securities (although we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so), pay taxable stock dividends, if possible, distribute other property or securities or engage in a transaction intended to enable us to meet the REIT distribution requirements. This may require us to raise additional capital to meet our obligations; however, see “—Risks Arising from Our Capital Structure—Limitations on our ability to access capital could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our debt payments, make distributions to our stockholders or make future investments necessary to implement our business plan.” The terms of our unsecured revolving credit facilities and the indentures governing our outstanding senior notes restrict our ability to engage in some of these transactions. To preserve our qualification as a REIT, our certificate of incorporation contains ownership limits with respect to our capital stock that may delay, defer or prevent a change of control of our company. To assist us in preserving our qualification as a REIT, our certificate of incorporation provides that if a person acquires beneficial ownership of more than 9.9% of our outstanding preferred stock or 9.0% of our common stock, the shares that are beneficially owned in excess of the applicable limit are considered to be “excess shares” and are automatically deemed transferred to a trust for the benefit of a charitable institution or other qualifying organization selected by our Board of Directors. The trust is entitled to all dividends with respect to the excess shares and the trustee may exercise all voting power over the excess shares. We have the right to buy the excess shares for a purchase price equal to the lesser of (i) the price per share in the transaction that created the excess shares or (ii) the market price on the day we buy the shares, but if we do not purchase them, the trustee of the trust is required to transfer the excess shares at the direction of the Board of Directors. These ownership limits could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. 39 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements If we decide to pay taxable stock dividends to meet the REIT distribution requirements, your tax liability may be greater than the amount of cash you receive. The IRS has recently issued Revenue Procedure 2010-12. Under this Revenue Procedure, the IRS will treat stock dividends as distributions for purposes of satisfying the REIT distribution requirements for calendar years 2008 through 2012 if each stockholder can elect to receive the distribution in cash, even if the aggregate cash amount paid to all stockholders is limited, provided certain requirements are met. Accordingly, if we decide to pay a stock dividend in accordance with Revenue Procedure 2010-12, your tax liability with respect to such dividend may be significantly greater than the amount of cash you receive. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 