ITEM 1A. Risk Factors RISK FACTORS This section discusses the most significant factors that affect our business, operations and financial condition. It does not describe all risks and uncertainties applicable to us, our industry or ownership of our securities. If any of the following risks, as well as other risks and uncertainties that are not yet identified or that we currently think are not material, actually occur, we could be materially adversely affected. In that event, the value of our securities could decline. We have grouped these risk factors into three general categories: • Risks arising from our business; • Risks arising from our capital structure; and • Risks arising from our status as a REIT. Risks Arising from Our Business We are dependent on Kindred and Brookdale Senior Living; either of Kindred’s or Brookdale Senior Living’s inability or unwillingness to satisfy its obligations under its agreements with us could significantly harm us and our ability to service our indebtedness and other obligations and to make distributions to our stockholders as required for us to continue to qualify as a REIT. We are dependent on Kindred and Brookdale Senior Living in the following ways: • We lease a substantial portion of our properties to Kindred and subsidiaries of Brookdale Senior Living, and therefore Kindred and Brookdale Senior Living accounted for a significant portion of our total revenues in 2007 and 2006, and they are expected to continue to be significant sources of our revenues; • Since the Kindred Master Leases and our leases with subsidiaries of Brookdale Senior Living are triple-net leases, we depend on Kindred and those subsidiaries to pay insurance, taxes, utilities and maintenance and repair expenses required in connection with the leased properties; and 27 Table of Contents • Kindred and certain subsidiaries of Brookdale Senior Living have agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities arising in connection with their respective businesses. We cannot assure you that Kindred or Brookdale Senior Living will have sufficient assets, income, access to financing and insurance coverage to enable it to satisfy its obligations under its agreements with us. In addition, any failure by Kindred or Brookdale Senior Living to effectively conduct its operations could have a material adverse effect on its business reputation or on its ability to attract and retain patients and residents in its properties. Any inability or unwillingness by Kindred or Brookdale Senior Living to satisfy its obligations under its agreements with us or to effectively conduct its operations could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. We may be unable to find another tenant or operator for our properties if we have to replace Kindred, subsidiaries of Brookdale Senior Living or any of our other tenants or operators. We may have to find another tenant or operator for the properties covered by one or more of the Kindred Master Leases or our leases with subsidiaries of Brookdale Senior Living or any of our other tenants or operators upon the expiration of the terms of the applicable lease or upon a default by Kindred or any of those subsidiaries, tenants or operators. During any period that we are attempting to locate one or more tenants or operators, there could be a decrease or cessation of rental payments on those properties. We cannot assure you that Kindred, subsidiaries of Brookdale Senior Living or any of our other tenants or operators will elect to renew their respective leases with us upon expiration of the terms thereof, nor can we assure you that we will be able to locate another suitable tenant or operator or, if we are successful in locating such a tenant or operator, that the rental payments from that new tenant or operator would not be significantly less than the existing rental payments. Our ability to locate another suitable tenant or operator may be significantly delayed or limited by various state licensing, receivership, CON or other laws, as well as by Medicare and Medicaid change-of-ownership rules. We also may incur substantial additional expenses in connection with any such licensing, receivership or change-of-ownership proceedings. Any such delays, limitations and expenses could materially delay or impact our ability to collect rent, to obtain possession of leased properties or otherwise to exercise remedies for tenant default and could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. We may encounter certain risks when implementing our business strategy to pursue investments in, and/or acquisitions or development of, additional seniors housing and/or healthcare-related assets. We intend to continue to pursue investments in, and/or acquisitions or development of, additional seniors housing and/or healthcare-related assets domestically and internationally, subject to the contractual restrictions contained in our revolving credit facility, our Canadian credit facility and the indentures governing our outstanding senior notes. Investments in and acquisitions of these properties, including the properties acquired in connection with the acquisition of the assets of Sunrise REIT, entail general risks associated with any real estate investment, including risks that the investment will fail to perform in accordance with expectations, that the estimates of the cost of improvements necessary for acquired properties will prove inaccurate or that the tenant or operator will fail to meet performance expectations. In addition, investments in and acquisitions of properties outside the United States would subject us to legal, economic and market risks associated with operating in foreign countries, such as currency and tax risks. Any new development projects that we pursue would also be subject to numerous risks, including risks of construction delays or cost overruns that may increase project costs, new project commencement risks such as receipt of zoning, occupancy and other required governmental approvals and permits and the risk of incurring development costs in connection with projects that are not pursued to completion. In addition, we may borrow to finance any investments in, and/or acquisitions or development of, seniors housing, healthcare-related and/or other properties, which would increase our leverage. We compete for investment and acquisition opportunities with entities that have substantially greater financial resources than we do. Our ability to compete successfully for these opportunities is affected by many factors, including our cost of obtaining debt and equity capital at rates comparable to or better than our 28 Table of Contents competitors. Competition generally may reduce the number of suitable investment and acquisition opportunities available to us and increase the bargaining power of property owners seeking to sell, thereby impeding our investment, acquisition and development activities. See “Business—Competition” included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Even if we succeed in identifying and competing for investment or acquisition opportunities, these opportunities would subject us to the risk that the value of the properties or businesses we invest in or acquire could decrease substantially after such investment or acquisition, that we might be unable to accurately assess the value of properties or businesses that are not of the type we currently own or that the investment or acquisition would divert management’s attention from our existing business, some or all of which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. Furthermore, as we continue to implement our business strategy to pursue investments in, and/or acquisitions or development of, additional seniors housing and/or healthcare-related assets or businesses, we intend to increase the number of operators of our properties and, potentially, our business segments. We cannot assure you that we will have the capabilities to successfully monitor and manage a portfolio of properties with a growing number of operators and/or manage such businesses. Our investments are concentrated in seniors housing and healthcare-related properties, making us more vulnerable economically than if our investments were diversified. We invest primarily in real estate—in particular, seniors housing and healthcare-related properties. Accordingly, we are exposed to the risks inherent in concentrating investments in real estate, and these risks are magnified by the fact that our real estate investments are limited to properties used in the seniors housing or healthcare industries. A downturn in the real estate industry could adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to sell properties for a price or on terms acceptable to us. A downturn in the seniors housing or healthcare industries could negatively impact our operators’ ability to make rental payments to us, which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. Furthermore, the healthcare industry is highly regulated, and changes in government regulation and reimbursement in the past have had material adverse consequences on the industry in general, which consequences may not have been contemplated by lawmakers and regulators. We cannot assure you that future changes in government regulation of healthcare will not have a material adverse effect on the healthcare industry, including our tenants and operators. Our ability to invest in non-seniors housing or non-healthcare-related properties is restricted by the terms of our revolving credit facility and our Canadian credit facility, so these adverse effects may be more pronounced than if we diversified our investments outside of real estate or outside of seniors housing or healthcare. Our tenants, managers and operators may be adversely affected by increasing healthcare regulation and enforcement. We believe that the regulatory environment surrounding the long-term healthcare industry has intensified both in the amount and type of regulations and in the efforts to enforce those regulations. This is particularly true for large for-profit, multi-facility providers like Kindred, Brookdale Senior Living and Sunrise. The extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting the healthcare industry include, but are not limited to, laws and regulations relating to licensure, conduct of operations, ownership of facilities, addition of facilities and equipment, allowable costs, services, prices for services, quality of care, patient rights, fraudulent or abusive behavior, and financial and other arrangements which may be entered into by healthcare providers. Federal and state governments have intensified enforcement policies, resulting in a significant increase in the number of inspections, citations of regulatory deficiencies and other regulatory sanctions, including terminations from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, bars on Medicare and Medicaid payments for new admissions, civil monetary penalties and even criminal penalties. See “Governmental Regulation—Healthcare Regulation” included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 29 Table of Contents If our tenants, managers or operators fail to comply with the extensive laws, regulations and other requirements applicable to their businesses and the operation of our properties, they could become ineligible to receive reimbursement from governmental and private third-party payor programs, face bans on admissions of new patients or residents, suffer civil and/or criminal penalties and/or be required to make significant changes to their operations. Our tenants, managers and operators also could be forced to expend considerable resources responding to an investigation or other enforcement action under applicable laws or regulations. In addition, failure of our tenants, managers or operators to comply with the applicable healthcare regulations could adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition and the results of operations of our properties operated or managed by it which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. We are unable to predict the future course of federal, state and local regulation or legislation, including the Medicare and Medicaid statutes and regulations. Changes in the regulatory framework could have a material adverse effect on our tenants, managers and operators, which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. Changes in the reimbursement rates or methods of payment from third-party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, could have a material adverse effect on certain of our tenants and operators. Kindred and certain of our other tenants and operators rely on reimbursement from third-party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, for substantially all of their revenues. There continue to be various federal and state legislative and regulatory proposals to implement cost-containment measures that limit payments to healthcare providers, such as the proposed rule issued by CMS on January 29, 2008 updating LTAC PPS payment rates for the 2009 rate year and the President’s proposed 2009 budget that could affect SNF PPS rates. See “Governmental Regulation—Healthcare Regulation” included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, private third-party payors have continued their efforts to control healthcare costs. We cannot assure you that adequate reimbursement levels will be available for services to be provided by Kindred and our other tenants and operators which are currently being reimbursed by Medicare, Medicaid or private payors. Significant limits by governmental and private third-party payors on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material adverse effect on the liquidity, financial condition and results of operations of Kindred and certain of our other tenants and operators, which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. The properties managed by Sunrise account for a significant portion of our revenues, and Sunrise is currently experiencing significant legal, accounting and regulatory difficulties. Sunrise currently manages 79 of our seniors housing communities pursuant to long-term management agreements. These properties represent a substantial portion of our portfolio, based on their original cost, and account for a significant portion of our revenues. According to public disclosures, Sunrise is currently reviewing its strategic alternatives and is experiencing significant legal, accounting and regulatory difficulties. Sunrise announced that it intends to file its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006 no later than March 17, 2008, although there can be no assurance it will do so. If Sunrise does not so file, its shares will likely be delisted from the New York Stock Exchange. The diversion of Sunrise management and employee attention away from the operation of our properties to the strategic review process and these other difficulties could adversely affect the performance of our assets, which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. We cannot assure you that these issues will not harm Sunrise’s business reputation or its ability to attract and retain qualified employees and to enlist and maintain residents in our properties, which also could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. In addition, we cannot predict the impact, if any, that the resolution of these uncertainties will have on our financial condition and results of operations. The failure or inability of Sunrise to satisfy its legal, accounting and regulatory requirements and to pay and perform its obligations could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. 30 Table of Contents We rely on Sunrise to manage a significant number of our seniors housing communities efficiently and effectively; Sunrise’s inability to do so could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. Although we have various rights as owner under the Sunrise management agreements, we are relying on Sunrise’s personnel, good faith, expertise, historical performance, technical resources and information systems, proprietary information and judgment to manage a significant number of our seniors housing communities efficiently and effectively. We are also relying on Sunrise to set resident fees and otherwise operate those properties pursuant to our management agreements and in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. Any change in the senior management of Sunrise or any adverse developments in Sunrise’s business and affairs, financial strength or ability to operate our properties efficiently and effectively could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. For example, we depend on Sunrise’s ability to attract and retain skilled management personnel who are responsible for the day-to-day operations of our seniors housing communities. A shortage of nurses or other trained personnel or general inflationary pressures may require that Sunrise enhance its pay and benefits package to compete effectively for such personnel, the costs of which are included in the operating budget for each property. Sunrise may not be able to offset such added costs by increasing the rates charged to residents. Any increase in these costs or any failure by Sunrise to attract and retain qualified personnel could adversely affect the income we receive from these properties. In addition, any inability or unwillingness on Sunrise’s part to satisfy its obligations under the management agreements it has with us could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. We are exposed to various operational risks, liabilities and claims with respect to our seniors housing communities managed by Sunrise that may adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and/or increase our costs and could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. Historically, we have leased our healthcare properties, other than our MOBs, to healthcare operating companies under triple-net leases, which require the tenants to pay all property-related expenses and to make rental payments to us. As a result of the Sunrise REIT acquisition, however, we are now exposed to various operational risks, liabilities and claims with respect to our Sunrise-managed properties that may adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and/or increase our costs, thereby reducing our profitability. These risks include fluctuations in occupancy levels, the inability to achieve economic resident fees (including anticipated increases in those fees), rent control regulations, increases in costs of materials, energy, labor and services, national and regional economic conditions, the imposition of new or increased taxes, capital expenditure requirements, professional and general liability claims and the availability and costs of professional and general liability insurance. Any one or a combination of these factors could result in operating deficiencies at our Sunrise-managed properties, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. We have only limited rights to terminate our management agreements with Sunrise, and we may be unable to replace Sunrise if our management agreements are terminated or not renewed. We and Sunrise are parties to long-term management agreements pursuant to which Sunrise currently provides comprehensive property management services with respect to 79 of our seniors housing communities. Each management agreement has a term of 30 years and may only be terminated by us upon the occurrence of an event of default by Sunrise in the performance of a material covenant or term thereof (including the revocation of any licenses or certificates necessary for operation), subject in each case to Sunrise’s rights to cure deficiencies, or upon the occurrence of certain insolvency events relating to Sunrise. We can also terminate the management agreement if a pool of properties fails to achieve a targeted net operating income level over a twelve-month period, other than as a result of a default by Sunrise. Consequently, in order to terminate Sunrise’s management agreement on a single underperforming property, we may be obligated to sell the property. If we were to exercise this remedy with respect to a large number of our seniors housing communities managed by Sunrise, the dispositions could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. 31 Table of Contents In the event that our management agreements with Sunrise are terminated for any reason or are not renewed upon expiration of their terms, we will have to find another manager for the properties covered by those agreements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to locate another suitable manager or, if we are successful in locating such a manager, that such manager will manage the properties as effectively as Sunrise. Any such inability or lengthy delay in replacing Sunrise as manager following termination or non-renewal of our management agreements could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. We may not be able to realize the intended benefits of the Sunrise REIT acquisition, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The Sunrise REIT acquisition poses a number of risks, including the risks that: • the acquired properties may not perform as well as we anticipated due to various factors, such as disruptions caused by the integration of operations with us and changes in economic conditions; • because we do not manage the day-to-day operations of the acquired properties, we rely on Sunrise to provide accurate property-level financial results for our properties in a timely manner; and • we may experience greater than expected costs and/or may not realize the expected revenues, cost savings or development opportunities from the transaction within the expected timeframe, if at all. If the liabilities we have assumed in the Sunrise REIT acquisition are greater than expected, or if there are unknown liabilities relating to the Sunrise REIT properties, our business could be materially and adversely affected. We acquired our ownership interests in many of the Sunrise REIT properties through the acquisition of the entities that own these properties. These entities may be subject to liabilities unknown to us that, if asserted, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us, such as: • liabilities relating to the clean-up or remediation of undisclosed environmental conditions; • unasserted claims of vendors or other persons dealing with such entities; • liabilities, claims and litigation, whether or not incurred in the ordinary course of business, relating to periods prior to the Sunrise REIT acquisition; • claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by such entities; and • liabilities for taxes relating to periods prior to the Sunrise REIT acquisition. As a result, we cannot assure you that the Sunrise REIT acquisition will be successful or will not, in fact, harm our business. Among other things, if the liabilities we have assumed are greater than expected, or if there are obligations relating to the Sunrise REIT properties of which we were not aware at the time we completed the Sunrise REIT acquisition, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Our current and future investments in joint ventures could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority, our reliance on our joint venture partners’ financial condition, any disputes that may arise between us and our joint venture partners and our exposure to potential losses from the actions of our joint venture partners. Through the Sunrise REIT acquisition and our resulting relationship with Sunrise pursuant to a strategic alliance agreement, we have acquired a 75% to 85% ownership interest in 61 seniors housing communities, with the minority interests in those communities being owned by affiliates of Sunrise. In addition, as of December 31, 2007, we owned seven MOBs though joint ventures with partners who typically provide management and leasing 32 Table of Contents services for the properties. These joint ventures involve risks not present with respect to our wholly owned properties, including the following: • We may share decision-making authority with our joint venture partners regarding major decisions affecting the ownership or operation of the joint venture and any property held jointly thereby, such as the sale or financing of any such property or the making of additional capital contributions for the benefit of any such property, which may prevent us from taking actions that are opposed by our joint venture partners; • Prior consent of our joint venture partners may be required for a sale or transfer to a third party of our interests in the joint venture, which restricts our ability to dispose of our interests in the joint venture; • Our joint venture partners might become bankrupt or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions, which may delay construction or development of a property or increase our financial commitment to the joint venture; • Our joint venture partners may have business interests or goals with respect to the property that conflict with our business interests and goals, which could increase the likelihood of disputes regarding the ownership, management or disposition of the property; • Disputes may develop with our joint venture partners over decisions affecting the property or the joint venture, which may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and distract our officers and/or directors from focusing their time and effort on our business and possibly disrupt the day-to-day operations of the property, such as delaying the implementation of important decisions until the conflict or dispute is resolved; and • We may suffer losses as a result of the actions of our joint venture partners with respect to our joint venture investments. We may be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. We currently own twelve seniors housing communities in the Canadian provinces of Ontario and British Columbia. As a result, we are subject to fluctuations in U.S. and Canadian exchange rates which may, from time to time, have an impact on our financial condition and results of operations. As we increase our international presence through investments in, and/or acquisitions or development of, seniors housing and/or healthcare-related assets outside the United States, we may transact additional business in currencies other than U.S. or Canadian dollars. Although we may decide to pursue hedging alternatives (including borrowing in local currencies) to protect against foreign currency fluctuations, we cannot assure you that any such fluctuations will not have a Material Adverse Effect on us. Our revenues from the seniors housing communities managed by Sunrise are dependent on private pay sources; Events which adversely affect the ability of seniors to afford our daily resident fees could cause our occupancy rates, resident fee revenues and results of operations to decline. Assisted and independent living services currently are not generally reimbursable under government reimbursement programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid. Accordingly, substantially all of the resident fee revenues generated by our Sunrise-managed properties are derived from private pay sources consisting of income or assets of residents or their family members. In general, because of the expense associated with building new properties and the staffing and other costs of providing services at these properties, only seniors with income or assets meeting or exceeding the comparable median in the regions where our properties are located typically can afford to pay the daily resident and care fees. Events such as economic downturns, changes in the housing market or changes in demographics could adversely affect the ability of seniors to afford these fees. If Sunrise is unable to attract and retain seniors with sufficient income, assets or other resources required to pay the fees associated with assisted and independent living services, our occupancy rates, resident fee revenues and results of operations could decline, which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. 33 Table of Contents Overbuilding in markets in which our seniors housing communities are located could adversely affect our future occupancy rates, operating margins and profitability. Barriers to entry in the assisted living industry are not substantial. Consequently, the development of new seniors housing communities could outpace demand. If the development of new seniors housing communities outpaces demand for those communities in the markets in which our properties are located, those markets may become saturated. Overbuilding in our markets, therefore, could cause us to experience decreased occupancy, reduced operating margins and lower profitability. Termination of resident lease agreements could adversely affect our revenues and earnings. Applicable regulations governing assisted living communities generally require written resident lease agreements with each resident. Most of these regulations also require that each resident have the right to terminate the resident lease agreement for any reason on reasonable notice. Consistent with these regulations, the resident lease agreements signed by Sunrise with respect to our properties managed by it generally allow residents to terminate their lease agreements on 30 days’ notice. Thus, Sunrise cannot contract with residents to stay for longer periods of time, unlike typical apartment leasing arrangements with terms of up to one year or longer. In addition, the resident turnover rate in our seniors housing communities may be difficult to predict. If a large number of resident lease agreements terminate at or around the same time, and if our units remained unoccupied, then our revenues and earnings could be adversely affected, which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. Significant legal actions could subject our tenants, managers and operators to increased operating costs and substantial uninsured liabilities, which could materially adversely affect their liquidity, financial condition and results of operation. Although claims and costs of professional liability insurance seem to be growing at a slower pace, our tenants, managers and operators have experienced substantial increases in both the number and size of professional liability claims in recent years. In addition to large compensatory claims, plaintiffs’ attorneys continue to seek significant punitive damages and attorneys’ fees. Due to historically high frequency and severity of professional liability claims against healthcare providers, the availability of professional liability insurance has been restricted and the premiums on such insurance coverage remain very high. As a result, the insurance coverage of our tenants, managers and operators might not cover all claims against them or continue to be available to them at a reasonable cost. If our tenants, managers and operators are unable to maintain adequate insurance coverage or are required to pay punitive damages, they may be exposed to substantial liabilities. Kindred insures its professional liability risks in part through a wholly owned, limited purpose insurance company. The limited purpose insurance company insures initial losses up to specified coverage levels per occurrence with no aggregate coverage limit. Coverage for losses in excess of those per occurrence levels is maintained through unaffiliated commercial insurance carriers up to an aggregate limit. The limited purpose insurance company then insures all claims in excess of the aggregate limit for the unaffiliated commercial insurance carriers. Kindred maintains general liability insurance and professional malpractice liability insurance in amounts and with deductibles which Kindred management has indicated that it believes are sufficient for its operations. Our tenants, managers and operators, including without limitation, Kindred, that insure any part of their general and professional liability risks through their own captive limited purpose entities generally estimate the future cost of general and professional liability through actuarial studies which rely primarily on historical data. However, due to the increase in the number and severity of professional claims against healthcare providers, these actuarial studies may underestimate the future cost of claims, and we cannot assure you that these tenants’, managers’ and operators’ reserves for future claims will be adequate to cover the actual cost of those claims. If 34 Table of Contents the actual cost of claims is significantly higher than the tenants’, managers and operators’ reserves, it could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations at our properties operated by that tenant, manager or operator, the tenants’, managers’ and operators’ liquidity, financial condition and results of operation and on their ability to make payments to us or on our behalf, which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. Our operators may be sued under a federal whistleblower statute. Our operators who engage in business with the federal government may be sued under a federal whistleblower statute designed to combat fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry. See “Governmental Regulation—Healthcare Regulation” included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These lawsuits can involve significant monetary damages and award bounties to private plaintiffs who successfully bring these suits. If any of these lawsuits were to be brought against our operators, such suits combined with increased operating costs and substantial uninsured liabilities could have a material adverse effect on the operators’ liquidity, financial condition and results of operation and on their ability to make rental payments to us, which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. If any of our properties are found to be contaminated, or if we become involved in any environmental disputes, we could incur substantial liabilities and costs. Under federal and state environmental laws and regulations, a current or former owner of real property may be liable for costs related to the investigation, removal and remediation of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum that are released from or are present at or under, or that are disposed of in connection with such property. Owners of real property may also face other environmental liabilities, including government fines and penalties imposed by regulatory authorities and damages for injuries to persons, property or natural resources. Environmental laws and regulations often impose liability without regard to whether the owner was aware of, or was responsible for, the presence, release or disposal of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum. In certain circumstances, environmental liability may result from the activities of a current or former operator of the property. Although we are generally indemnified by the current operators of our properties for contamination caused by them, these indemnities may not adequately cover all environmental costs. See “Governmental Regulation—Environmental Regulation” included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We have assumed substantially all of Provident’s liabilities, including contingent liabilities; If these liabilities are greater than expected, or if there are unknown Provident obligations, our business could be materially and adversely affected. As a result of our acquisition of Provident in 2005, we have assumed substantially all of Provident’s liabilities, including contingent liabilities to which Provident succeeded when it acquired the ownership interests in the properties that are currently leased to Brookdale and Alterra. We may learn additional information about Provident’s business and liabilities that adversely affects us, such as: • liabilities for clean-up or remediation of undisclosed environmental conditions; • unasserted claims of vendors or other persons dealing with Provident or the former property owners; • liabilities, whether or not incurred in the ordinary course of business, relating to periods prior to the Provident acquisition, including periods prior to Provident’s acquisition of the Brookdale and Alterra properties; • claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by Provident or the former property owners; and • liabilities for taxes relating to periods prior to the Provident acquisition, including taxes associated with the acquisition or prior ownership of the Brookdale and Alterra properties. As a result, we cannot assure you that the Provident acquisition will be successful or will not, in fact, harm our business. Among other things, if Provident’s liabilities are greater than expected, or if there are obligations of 35 Table of Contents Provident of which we were not aware at the time we completed the acquisition, or if the Provident acquisition fails to qualify as a “reorganization” within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code, it could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. Risks Arising from Our Capital Structure We may become more leveraged. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $3.4 billion of indebtedness. Our revolving credit facility, our Canadian credit facility and the indentures governing our outstanding senior notes permit us to incur substantial additional debt, and we may borrow additional funds, which may include secured borrowings. A high level of indebtedness would require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of debt service, thereby reducing the funds available to implement our business strategy and to make distributions to stockholders. A high level of indebtedness could also have the following consequences: • potential limits on our ability to adjust rapidly to changing market conditions and vulnerability in the event of a downturn in general economic conditions or in the real estate and/or healthcare industries; • potential impairment of our ability to obtain additional financing for our business strategy; and • potential downgrade in the rating of our debt securities by one or more rating agencies, which could have the effect of, among other things, increasing our cost of borrowing. We may be unable to raise additional capital necessary to continue to implement our business plan and to meet our debt payments. In order to continue to implement our business plan and to meet our debt payments, we may need to raise additional capital. The amount of additional indebtedness we may incur is limited by the terms of our revolving credit facility, our Canadian credit facility and the indentures governing our outstanding senior notes. In addition, adverse economic conditions may impact the availability of additional funds or could cause the terms on which we are able to borrow additional funds to become unfavorable. In those circumstances, we may be required to raise additional equity in the capital markets or liquidate one or more investments in properties at times that may not permit us to realize the maximum return on those investments, which could result in adverse tax consequences to us. Moreover, certain healthcare regulations may constrain our ability to sell assets. We cannot assure you that we will be able to raise the necessary capital to continue to implement our business plan or to meet our debt service obligations, and the failure to do so could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. We have now, and may have in the future, exposure to floating interest rates, which could have the effect of reducing our profitability. We receive a significant portion of our revenue by leasing our assets under long-term triple-net leases in which the rental rate is generally fixed with annual rent escalations, subject to certain limitations. Certain of our debt obligations are floating rate obligations with interest rate and related payments that vary with the movement of LIBOR, Bankers’ Acceptance or other indexes. The generally fixed rate nature of our revenues and the variable rate nature of certain of our obligations create interest rate risk and can have the effect of reducing our profitability or making our lease and other revenue insufficient to meet our obligations. The amount of floating rate debt versus fixed rate debt we may incur is not limited. 36 Table of Contents Risks Arising from Our Status as a REIT Loss of our status as a REIT would have significant adverse consequences to us and the value of our common stock. If we lose our status as a REIT, we will face serious tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available for satisfying our obligations and for distribution to our stockholders for each of the years involved because: • we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates; • we also could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and • unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we could not elect to be subject to tax as a REIT for four taxable years following the year during which we were disqualified. In addition, in such event we would no longer be required to pay dividends to maintain REIT status. As a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT also could impair our ability to implement our business strategy and would adversely affect the value of our common stock. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to remain qualified as a REIT. In addition, new legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may adversely affect our investors or our ability to remain qualified as a REIT for tax purposes. Although we believe that we qualify as a REIT, we cannot assure you that we will continue to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT for tax purposes. See “Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations—Federal Income Taxation of Ventas” and “—Requirements for Qualification as a REIT” included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The 90% distribution requirement will decrease our liquidity and may limit our ability to engage in otherwise beneficial transactions. To comply with the 90% distribution requirement applicable to REITs and to avoid the nondeductible excise tax, we must make distributions to our stockholders. See “Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations—Requirements for Qualification as a REIT—Annual Distribution Requirements” included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The indentures governing our outstanding senior notes permit us to make annual distributions to our stockholders in an amount equal to the minimum amount necessary to maintain our REIT status so long as the ratio of our Debt to Adjusted Total Assets (as each term is defined in the indentures) does not exceed 60% and to make additional distributions if we pass certain other financial tests. However, distributions may limit our ability to rely upon rental payments from our properties or subsequently acquired properties to finance investments, acquisitions or new developments. Although we anticipate that we generally will have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement, it is possible that, from time to time, we may not have sufficient cash or other liquid assets to meet the 90% distribution requirement. This may be due to the timing differences between the actual receipt of income and actual payment of deductible expenses, on the one hand, and the inclusion of that income and deduction of those expenses in arriving at our taxable income, on the other hand. In addition, non-deductible expenses such as principal amortization or repayments or capital expenditures in excess of non-cash deductions also may cause us to fail to have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement. 37 Table of Contents In the event that timing differences occur or we decide to retain cash or to distribute such greater amount as may be necessary to avoid income and excise taxation, we may borrow funds, issue additional equity securities (although we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so), pay taxable stock dividends, if possible, distribute other property or securities or engage in a transaction intended to enable us to meet the REIT distribution requirements. This may require us to raise additional capital to meet our obligations; however, see “—Risks Arising from Our Capital Structure—We may be unable to raise additional capital necessary to continue to implement our business plan and to meet our debt payments.” The terms of our revolving credit facility, our Canadian credit facility and the indentures governing our outstanding senior notes restrict our ability to engage in some of these transactions. The structure utilized to implement the Sunrise REIT acquisition may jeopardize our REIT status. As a REIT, we may not own and operate a healthcare facility directly, and a taxable REIT subsidiary may not directly or indirectly manage or operate a healthcare facility. We believe (and have been advised by counsel) that a taxable REIT subsidiary may own a healthcare facility if such facility is managed by an independent eligible contractor. In order to ensure that the Sunrise REIT acquisition does not jeopardize our REIT status, the Sunrise REIT properties were acquired through taxable REIT subsidiaries and are being managed by Sunrise pursuant to long-term management agreements. We believe that the use of such a structure does not compromise our REIT status. However, if it is determined that this structure jeopardizes our REIT status, such determination could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. We may still be subject to corporate level taxes. Following our REIT election and due to the acquisition of Provident, we are considered to be a former C corporation for income tax purposes. Therefore, we remain potentially subject to corporate level taxes for any additional Kindred asset dispositions occurring before December 31, 2008. Also, as a consequence of the Provident acquisition, we remain potentially subject to corporate level taxes if we dispose of any of the Brookdale properties before November 2014. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 