ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors could affect our financial condition and/or operating results. Our customers’ economic cycles may affect our operating results and financial condition. Many of our customers are in industries that are cyclical in nature and sensitive to changes in general economic conditions and other factors, including capital spending levels. Such industries include commercial aerospace, specialty electronics manufacturing equipment, power generation, off-road and heavy industrial equipment, and other capital equipment manufacturing. As a result, the demand for our products by these customers depends, in part, upon general economic conditions. Historically, downward economic cycles have reduced customer demand for our products, thereby reducing sales of our products and resulting in reductions to our revenues and earnings. In addition, our military sales are dependent on government funding. Sales to our wind energy customers have been volatile due to the effects of the global financial crisis, worldwide fiscal austerity, the emergence of new shale gas extraction techniques and continued regulatory uncertainty in the United States including uncertainty in 2012 regarding the expiration of the federal Production Tax Credit (“PTC”) on December 31, 2012. Although on January 1, 2013, the PTC was renewed, the effect of this on our future results is uncertain. The timing and sustainability of worldwide economic growth in 2013 is also uncertain and if economic conditions do not remain at current levels or if conditions deteriorate our results of operations could be adversely affected. Certain of our markets are significantly affected by government funding and incentives. The ability and intent of the government to continue to fund programs at historic levels may change in the current and future economic and political environment. Reduced government funding for products in these markets may affect our operating results and financial condition. We provide components to the military product programs that our customers sell to the federal government. Defense spending in the last decade to support military actions in Iraq and Afghanistan has been significant. In addition, certain of our products are used in industries including the wind energy industry that rely, in part, on government incentives. The ability and intent of the government to fund military programs and provide incentives to certain 4 KAYDON CORPORATION FORM 10K Table of Contents industries may decline. The U.S. Budget Control Act of 2011 (the “BCA”) incorporates planned reductions in defense funding for the next ten years. The federal government reached short term agreement on fiscal cliff funding issues, but faces deadlines in 2013 to resolve additional budget and spending matters. If agreements are not achieved on these matters, certain sequester provisions in the BCA will require automatic spending reductions which may affect certain programs where we are subcontractors. While the magnitude, timing and specific effects of reduced governmental defense spending are unknown, we expect that reduced defense spending will occur and may affect our operating results and financial condition. The fiscal cliff agreements reached by the federal government in early 2013 included an extension of the PTC for wind energy projects started before December 31, 2013. Therefore, the possible renewal of this incentive for projects started after January 1, 2014 will require additional governmental action in an uncertain economic and political environment. The delay or absence of the extension of the PTC beyond December 31, 2013, may affect our operating results and financial condition. Increased competition in our key markets could result in a reduction in our revenues and earnings and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The industries in which we operate are fragmented and we face competition from multiple companies across our various product lines. We expect competitive pressures from new products and aggressive pricing to increase, which may cause us to lose market share or compel us to reduce prices to remain competitive, which could result in reduced levels of revenues and earnings. Our competitors include U.S. and non-U.S. companies, some of which benefit from lower labor costs and fewer regulatory burdens. In addition, certain competitors, including Eaton, Timken, SKF, Schaeffler and ITT, are larger than Kaydon and may have access to greater financial, technical, development, marketing, manufacturing, sales and distribution services and other resources. Increased competition with these companies or new entrants to our key markets could prevent price increases for our products or could require price reductions for our products, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, growth or liquidity. Future acquisitions may require us to incur costs and liabilities or have other unexpected consequences which may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. In addition to internal growth, our current strategy involves growth through acquisitions of complementary businesses as well as acquisitions that would diversify our product offerings. Like other companies with similar growth strategies, we may be unable to continue to implement our growth strategy, and this strategy may be ultimately unsuccessful. A portion of our expected future growth in revenues may result from acquisitions. We frequently engage in evaluations of potential acquisitions and negotiations for possible acquisitions, certain of which, if consummated, could be significant to us. Although it is our general objective only to acquire companies in transactions which will be accretive to both earnings and cash flow, any potential acquisitions may result in material transaction expenses, increased interest and amortization expense, increased depreciation expense and increased operating expense, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Acquisitions may entail integration and management of the acquired businesses to realize economies of scale and control costs. In addition, acquisitions may involve other risks, including diversion of management resources otherwise available for ongoing development of our business and risks associated with entering new markets. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates in the future, obtain acceptable financing or consummate any future acquisitions. Finally, as a result of our acquisitions of other businesses, we may be subject to the risk of unanticipated business uncertainties or legal liabilities relating to those acquired businesses for which the sellers of the acquired businesses may not indemnify us. Future acquisitions may also result in potentially dilutive issuances of securities. KAYDON CORPORATION FORM 10K 5 Table of Contents Political, economic and regulatory conditions inherent in the international markets in which we participate could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Typically, sales of our products from our foreign subsidiaries and from our domestic businesses selling to foreign locations account for approximately 40 percent of net sales. These foreign sales could be adversely affected by changes in various foreign countries’ political and economic conditions, trade protection measures, differing intellectual property rights and changes in regulatory requirements that restrict the sales of our products or increase our costs. We generate significant revenues outside the United States. Currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the currencies in which our current customers do business may have an impact on the demand for our products in foreign countries where the U.S. dollar has increased in value compared to the local currency. We cannot predict the effects of exchange rate fluctuations upon our future operating results because of the number of currencies involved, the variability of currency exposure and the potential volatility of currency exchange rates. Relationships with customers and effective terms of sale frequently vary by country, often with longer-term receivables than are typical in the United States. Our critical performance products expose us to potential litigation-related costs which may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. As a provider of critical performance products in a variety of industries including alternative energy, aerospace, defense, specialized robotics, medical, material handling, machine tool positioning and other industrial applications, we face a risk of exposure to claims in the event that the failure, use or misuse of our products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury and/or property damage. In the past, costs related to legal proceedings and settlements have had a material effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. The ultimate cost of current known or future unknown litigation and claims could exceed management’s current expectations and it is possible that such costs could have a material adverse effect on the Company. In addition, litigation is time consuming and could divert management attention and resources away from our business. Following our efforts to restructure our wind energy production capacity, if the wind energy market does not stabilize or declines, our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. In 2012, we announced our wind energy restructuring to reduce wind energy production capacity. The restructuring included the recognition of an impairment charge of $43.0 million, the anticipated sale of production equipment with a book value of $6.5 million classified as held for sale and the expected disposal of an owned facility that produced large turntable bearings. We retained sufficient production capacity capable of producing turntable bearings in diameters of 5 feet to 12 feet in our facilities principally in Monterrey, Mexico, to continue to meet anticipated demand for wind energy bearings. While this equipment is also capable of producing large diameter turntable bearings for other of our markets, we face a risk of exposure to sales and earnings volatility if the wind industry is further affected by conditions in the capital markets, attracts new competition or loses certain governmental incentives, or other energy sources become more competitive, and we are unsuccessful in reallocating a portion of any resulting excess capacity to other markets. If the wind industry is adversely affected by these factors, we may not be able to sell the production equipment held for sale and the owned facility that we intend to dispose of at prices at or above carrying value, or if the market does not fully support our remaining production capacity investment, we could experience an impairment of our remaining wind energy capacity investment. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 6 KAYDON CORPORATION FORM 10K Table of Contents 