Item 1A. Risk Factors herein. Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS General Development of Business Kaydon Corporation (the “Company” or “Kaydon”) is a leading designer and manufacturer of custom-engineered, performance-critical products for a broad customer base. Kaydon was incorporated under the laws of Delaware in 1983 as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Bairnco Corporation, its former parent company. The Company became a separate public company in 1984 when it was spun-out of Bairnco Corporation as a dividend to Bairnco’s shareholders. At the time of its incorporation, Kaydon was principally involved in the design and manufacture of bearing systems and components as well as filters and filter housings. Since 1984, the Company has pursued a diversified growth strategy in the manufacturing sector. The Company’s principal products now include the previously mentioned bearing systems and components and filters and filter housings, and also custom rings, shaft seals, linear deceleration products, specialty retaining rings, specialty balls, fuel cleansing systems, gas-phase air filtration systems and replacement media, industrial presses and metal alloy products. These products are used by customers in a variety of robotics, medical, material handling, machine tool positioning, aerospace, defense, security, electronic and other industrial applications. The Company performs as an extension of its customers’ engineering and manufacturing functions, with a commitment to identify and provide engineered solutions to design problems through technical innovation, cost-effective manufacturing and outstanding value-added service. Industry Segments We operate through operating segments for which separate financial information is available, and for which operating results are evaluated regularly by the Company’s chief operating decision maker in determining resource allocation and assessing performance. Certain of the operating segments have similar economic characteristics, as well as other common attributes, including nature of the products and production processes, distribution patterns and classes of customers. The Company aggregates these operating segments for reporting purposes. Certain other operating segments do not exhibit the common attributes mentioned above and, therefore, information about them is reported separately. Still other operating segments do not meet the quantitative thresholds for separate disclosure and their information is combined and disclosed as “Other.” Following the sale of our former Power and Data Transmission Products segment in 2005, the Company has three reportable segments and other operating segments engaged in the manufacture and sale of the following: Friction and Motion Control Products – complex components used in specialized robotics, medical, aerospace, defense, security, electronic, material handling, construction and other industrial applications. Products include anti-friction bearings, split roller bearings, specialty balls and retaining devices. Velocity Control Products – complex components used in specialized robotics, material handling, machine tool, medical, amusement and other industrial applications. Products include industrial shock absorbers, safety shock absorbers, velocity controls, gas springs and rotary dampers. Sealing Products – complex and standard ring and seal products used in demanding industrial, aerospace and defense applications. Products include engine rings, sealing rings and shaft seals. Other – filter elements and liquid and gas-phase filtration systems, metal alloys, machine tool components, presses, dies and benders used in a variety of industrial applications. Net sales related to our three reportable segments and other operating segments during 2006, 2005 and 2004 are set forth in the following table: 2006 2005 2004 (In thousands) Friction and Motion Control Products External customers $ 233,843 $ 194,566 $ 163,491 Intersegment – continuing operations 187 126 95 Intersegment – discontinued operations — 302 237 234,030 194,994 163,823 Velocity Control Products External customers 56,733 53,839 51,011 Intersegment – continuing operations — (1 ) — 56,733 53,838 51,011 Sealing Products External customers 42,085 38,632 35,035 Intersegment – continuing operations (89 ) (88 ) (79 ) 41,996 38,544 34,956 Other External customers 71,331 67,219 46,957 Intersegment – continuing operations (98 ) (37 ) (16 ) 71,233 67,182 46,941 Total consolidated net sales $ 403,992 $ 354,558 $ 296,731 1 Table of Contents See the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Note 12) contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional information on the Company’s reportable segments. Sophisticated technology plays a significant role in all of our reportable segments in the design, engineering and manufacturing of our products. Due to the custom-engineered, proprietary nature of the Company’s products, substantially all of the manufacturing is done in-house and subcontractors are utilized for occasional specialized services. Products are manufactured utilizing a variety of precision metalworking and other process technologies after working closely with customers to engineer the required solution to their design and performance challenges. We sell our products in each reportable segment through a sales organization consisting of salespersons and representatives located primarily throughout North America, Europe and Asia. Salespersons are trained to provide technical assistance to customers, as well as to serve as a liaison between the factory engineering staffs of Kaydon and its customers. Also, a global network of specialized distributors and agents provides local availability of our products to serve the requirements of customers. During 2006, 2005 and 2004, sales to no single customer exceeded 10 percent of Kaydon net sales. However, during 2006, sales to two customers exceeded 10 percent (23.6 percent, and 12.6 percent) of net sales in the Sealing Products reporting segment, and sales to one customer exceeded 10 percent (14.2 percent) of net sales in the other businesses. During 2005, sales to two customers exceeded 10 percent (23.1 percent, and 13.8 percent) of net sales in the Sealing Products reporting segment, and sales to one customer exceeded 10 percent (11.2 percent) of net sales in the other businesses. During 2004, sales to one customer exceeded 10 percent (10.4 percent) of net sales in the Friction and Motion Control Products reporting segment, sales to three customers exceeded 10 percent (22.2 percent, 15.8 percent, and 10.5 percent) of net sales in the Sealing Products reporting segment, and sales to one customer exceeded 10 percent (16.0 percent) of net sales in the other businesses. We do not consider our business in any reportable segment to be seasonal in nature or to have special working capital requirements. Compliance with federal, state and local regulations relating to the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, is not expected to result in material capital expenditures by us or to have a material adverse effect on our earnings or competitive position. In general, raw materials required by the Company are attainable from various sources and in the quantities desired. Various provisions of federal law and regulations require, under certain circumstances, the renegotiations of military procurement contracts or the refund of profits determined to be excessive. The Company, based on experience, believes that no material renegotiations or refunds will be required. In 2006 we publicly announced the intention to invest approximately $30.0 million during 2006 and 2007 to expand our capacity and to maintain our leadership position in the supply of specialty bearings to serve the rapidly growing wind energy market. Other than this announcement, we have not made any public announcement of, or otherwise made public information about, a new product or a new industry segment which would require the investment of a material amount of our assets or which would otherwise result in a material cost. Backlog We sell certain products on a build-to-order basis that requires substantial order lead-time. This results in a backlog of unshipped, scheduled orders. In addition, certain products are manufactured on the basis of sales projections or annual blanket purchase orders. Variability in backlog is affected by the timing of orders received particularly when larger customers pull forward or push out major orders. Backlog in the Friction and Motion Control Products reporting segment was $110.3 million at December 31, 2006 and $110.5 million at December 31, 2005. Backlog in the Velocity Control Products reporting segment was $5.7 million at December 31, 2006 and $6.2 million at December 31, 2005. Backlog in the Sealing Products reporting segment was $24.6 million at December 31, 2006 and $21.1 million at December 31, 2005. Backlog in other businesses was $10.9 million at December 31, 2006, and $12.4 million at December 31, 2005. Patents and Trademarks The Company holds various patents, patent applications, licenses, trademarks and trade names. The Company considers its patents, patent applications, licenses, trademarks and trade names to be valuable, but does not believe that there is any reasonable likelihood of a loss of such rights which would have a material adverse effect on our present business as a whole. Competition The major domestic and foreign markets for our products in all reporting segments are highly competitive. Competition is based primarily on price, product engineering and performance, technology, quality and overall customer service, with the relative importance of such factors varying by degree among products. Our competitors include a large number of other well-established diversified manufacturers as well as other smaller companies. Although a number of companies of varying size compete with us, no single competitor is in substantial competition with the Company with respect to more than a few of its product lines and services. 2 Table of Contents Employees We employ approximately 1,900 people. Satisfactory relationships have generally prevailed between the Company and its employees. International Operations Certain friction and motion control products are manufactured in Mexico and the United Kingdom, and certain velocity control products are assembled and distributed through a facility in Germany. In addition, within all reporting segments, we distribute an array of products throughout North America, Europe and Asia. Our foreign operations are subject to political, monetary, economic and other risks attendant generally to international businesses. These risks generally vary from country to country. See the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Note 12) contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional information on the Company’s operations by geographic area. Available Information Our internet address is www.kaydon.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and amendments to all such reports and statements are accessible at no charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Also accessible on our website under “Corporate Governance” are our Corporate Governance Guidelines, our Codes of Ethics, and the charters of the various committees of our Board of Directors. These items are also available in print at no charge to those who direct a request in writing to the Company. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors could affect the Company’s financial condition and/or operating results. The Company’s customers’ economic cycles may affect Kaydon’s operating results. Many of our customers are in industries that are cyclical in nature and sensitive to changes in general economic conditions and other factors, including capital spending levels. Such industries include commercial aerospace, specialty electronics manufacturing equipment, power generation, off-road and heavy industrial equipment, and other capital equipment manufacturing. As a result, the demand for our products by these customers depends, in part, upon general economic conditions. Historically, downward economic cycles have reduced customer demand for our products, thereby reducing sales of our products and resulting in reductions to our revenues and net earnings. In addition, our military sales are dependent on government funding. Increased competition in the Company’s key markets could result in a reduction in Kaydon’s revenues and earnings and adversely affect the Company’s financial condition. The industries in which we operate are fragmented and we face competition from multiple companies across our various product lines. We expect competitive pressures from new products and aggressive pricing to increase, which may cause us to lose market share or compel us to reduce prices to remain competitive, which could result in reduced levels of revenues and earnings. Our competitors include U.S. and non-U.S. companies, some of which benefit from lower labor costs and fewer regulatory burdens. In addition, certain competitors, including Eaton, Timken, SKF, and INA/ FAG, are larger than Kaydon and may have access to greater financial, technical, development, marketing, manufacturing, sales and distribution services and other resources. Increased competition with these companies or new entrants to our key markets could prevent price increases for our products or could require price reductions for our products, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, growth or liquidity. Future acquisitions may require Kaydon to incur costs and liabilities which may adversely affect the Company’s operating results. In addition to internal growth, our current strategy involves growth through acquisitions of complementary businesses as well as acquisitions that would diversify our product offerings. Like other companies with similar growth strategies, we may be unable to continue to implement our growth strategy, and this strategy may be ultimately unsuccessful. A portion of our expected future growth in revenues may result from acquisitions. We frequently engage in evaluations of potential acquisitions and negotiations for possible acquisitions, certain of which, if consummated, could be significant to the Company. Although it is our policy only to acquire companies in transactions which are accretive to both earnings and cash flow, any potential acquisitions may result in material transaction expenses, increased interest and amortization expense, increased depreciation expense and increased operating expense, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Acquisitions may entail integration and management of the new businesses to realize economies of scale and control costs. In addition, acquisitions may involve other risks, including diversion of management resources otherwise available for ongoing development of our business and risks associated with entering new markets. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates in the future, obtain acceptable financing or consummate any future acquisitions. Finally, as a result of our acquisitions of other businesses, we may be subject to the risk of unanticipated 3 Table of Contents business uncertainties or legal liabilities relating to those acquired businesses for which the sellers of the acquired businesses may not indemnify the Company. Future acquisitions may also result in potentially dilutive issuances of securities. Political, economic and regulatory conditions inherent in the international markets in which Kaydon participates could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition. Typically, sales of our products from our foreign subsidiaries and from our domestic subsidiaries selling to foreign locations account for approximately 30 percent of net sales. These foreign sales could be adversely affected by changes in various foreign countries’ political and economic conditions, trade protection measures, differing intellectual property rights and changes in regulatory requirements that restrict the sales of our products or increase our costs. We generate significant revenues outside the United States. Currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the currencies in which those customers do business may have an impact on the demand for our products in foreign countries where the U.S. dollar has increased in value compared to the local currency. We cannot predict the effects of exchange rate fluctuations upon our future operating results because of the number of currencies involved, the variability of currency exposure and the potential volatility of currency exchange rates. Relationships with customers and effective terms of sale frequently vary by country, often with longer-term receivables than are typical in the United States. Kaydon’s manufactured critical performance products expose the Company to potential litigation-related costs which may adversely affect the Company’s financial position and operating results. As a provider of critical performance products in a variety of industries including aerospace, defense, robotics, medical, material handling, machine tool positioning and other industrial applications, we face a risk of exposure to claims in the event that the failure, use or misuse of our products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury and/or property damage. In the past, costs related to legal proceedings and settlements have had a material effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We cannot assure you that the ultimate cost of current known or future unknown litigation and claims will not exceed management’s current expectations and it is possible that such costs could have a material adverse effect on the Company. In addition, litigation is time consuming and could divert management attention and resources away from our business. Failing to continue to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 may adversely affect investor perceptions and the market value of Company common stock. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, Kaydon Corporation has included in this Annual Report a report of management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the Company’s system of internal control over financial reporting. Also included in this Annual Report is a report from the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm on their assessment of the effectiveness of the Company’s system of internal control, and on their evaluation of management’s assessment. In order to issue their report, management has documented both the design of the system of internal control, and the testing processes that support their evaluation and conclusion. While the Company and its independent registered public accounting firm believe that the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, the requirements of Section 404 are ongoing, and, if in the future the Company’s management or its independent registered public accounting firm determine that the internal controls are not effective, as defined under Section 404, investor perceptions of the Company may be adversely affected. 4 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 