ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors could affect our financial condition and/or operating results. Our customers’ economic cycles may affect our operating results and financial condition. Many of our customers are in industries that are cyclical in nature and sensitive to changes in general economic conditions and other factors, including capital spending levels. Such industries include commercial aerospace, specialty electronics manufacturing equipment, power generation, off-road and heavy industrial equipment, and other capital equipment manufacturing. As a result, the demand for our products by these customers depends, in part, upon general economic conditions. Historically, downward economic cycles have reduced customer demand for our products, thereby reducing sales of our products and resulting in reductions to our revenues and earnings. In addition, our military sales are dependent on government funding. While business conditions in 2011 improved in most of our industrial end markets compared to 2010, sales to our wind energy and military end markets have moderated since achieving strong performances in prior years even during the recent recession. The timing and sustainability of worldwide economic growth in 2012 is uncertain and if economic conditions do not remain at current levels or if conditions deteriorate our results of operations could be adversely affected. Increased competition in our key markets could result in a reduction in our revenues and earnings and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The industries in which we operate are fragmented and we face competition from multiple companies across our various product lines. We expect competitive pressures from new products and aggressive pricing to increase, which may cause us to KAYDON CORPORATION FORM 10K 3 Table of Contents lose market share or compel us to reduce prices to remain competitive, which could result in reduced levels of revenues and earnings. Our competitors include U.S. and non-U.S. companies, some of which benefit from lower labor costs and fewer regulatory burdens. In addition, certain competitors, including Eaton, Timken, SKF, Schaeffler and ITT, are larger than Kaydon and may have access to greater financial, technical, development, marketing, manufacturing, sales and distribution services and other resources. Increased competition with these companies or new entrants to our key markets could prevent price increases for our products or could require price reductions for our products, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, growth or liquidity. Future acquisitions may require us to incur costs and liabilities or have other unexpected consequences which may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. In addition to internal growth, our current strategy involves growth through acquisitions of complementary businesses as well as acquisitions that would diversify our product offerings. Like other companies with similar growth strategies, we may be unable to continue to implement our growth strategy, and this strategy may be ultimately unsuccessful. A portion of our expected future growth in revenues may result from acquisitions. We frequently engage in evaluations of potential acquisitions and negotiations for possible acquisitions, certain of which, if consummated, could be significant to us. Although it is our general objective only to acquire companies in transactions which will be accretive to both earnings and cash flow, any potential acquisitions may result in material transaction expenses, increased interest and amortization expense, increased depreciation expense and increased operating expense, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Acquisitions may entail integration and management of the acquired businesses to realize economies of scale and control costs. In addition, acquisitions may involve other risks, including diversion of management resources otherwise available for ongoing development of our business and risks associated with entering new markets. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates in the future, obtain acceptable financing or consummate any future acquisitions. Finally, as a result of our acquisitions of other businesses, we may be subject to the risk of unanticipated business uncertainties or legal liabilities relating to those acquired businesses for which the sellers of the acquired businesses may not indemnify us. Future acquisitions may also result in potentially dilutive issuances of securities. Political, economic and regulatory conditions inherent in the international markets in which we participate could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Typically, sales of our products from our foreign subsidiaries and from our domestic businesses selling to foreign locations account for approximately 40 percent of net sales. These foreign sales could be adversely affected by changes in various foreign countries’ political and economic conditions, trade protection measures, differing intellectual property rights and changes in regulatory requirements that restrict the sales of our products or increase our costs. We generate significant revenues outside the United States. Currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the currencies in which our current customers do business may have an impact on the demand for our products in foreign countries where the U.S. dollar has increased in value compared to the local currency. We cannot predict the effects of exchange rate fluctuations upon our future operating results because of the number of currencies involved, the variability of currency exposure and the potential volatility of currency exchange rates. Relationships with customers and effective terms of sale frequently vary by country, often with longer-term receivables than are typical in the United States. Our critical performance products expose us to potential litigation-related costs which may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. As a provider of critical performance products in a variety of industries including alternative energy, aerospace, defense, specialized robotics, medical, material handling, machine tool positioning and other industrial applications, we face a risk of exposure to claims in the event that the failure, use or misuse of our products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury and/or property damage. 4 KAYDON CORPORATION FORM 10K Table of Contents In the past, costs related to legal proceedings and settlements have had a material effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. The ultimate cost of current known or future unknown litigation and claims could exceed management’s current expectations and it is possible that such costs could have a material adverse effect on the Company. In addition, litigation is time consuming and could divert management attention and resources away from our business. Our capacity expansion to supply custom bearings to a select group of global customers in the wind energy market may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We have invested more than $80 million to expand our capacity to supply bearings to the wind energy market. This investment consists primarily of three production lines and other supplemental machinery and equipment capable of producing turntable bearings in diameters of 5 feet to 12 feet in our facilities in Monterrey, Mexico, and to a lesser extent, supplemental machinery and equipment in our facility in Sumter, South Carolina, as well as related expenses in both locations. While this equipment is also capable of producing large diameter turntable bearings for other of our markets, we face a risk of exposure to sales and earnings volatility if the wind industry is affected by conditions in the capital markets, attracts new competition, loses certain governmental incentives, or matures more rapidly than currently anticipated, and we are unsuccessful in reallocating a portion of any resulting excess capacity to other markets. If the wind industry is adversely affected by these factors and we are not able to reallocate capacity, we could experience an impairment of our wind energy capacity investment. The condition of the financial markets and the general economic environment may impact the timing and extent that wind energy market customers proceed with planned projects, and, if financial market conditions are not conducive to financing our customers’ projects or economic conditions including government incentives do not support further growth, our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. We have invested in increased capacity to supply custom bearings to the wind energy market. In addition to the significant capital assets acquired, we currently have substantial accounts receivable and inventory balances related to certain wind energy customers. The wind energy market has been impacted by issues associated with credit and financing availability and end user confidence in proceeding with previously planned projects. If financial market conditions are not conducive to financing our customers’ projects, or economic conditions including government incentives do not support further growth, customers may react in a manner that could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. A bankruptcy filing by a significant wind energy customer may result in uncollectible accounts receivable and unusable inventory, as well as reduced utilization of our large diameter bearing manufacturing facilities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 