ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Corporation is exposed to a variety of risks, some of which are inherent in the banking business. The more significant of these are addressed by the Corporation’s written policies and procedures. While management is responsible for identifying, assessing and managing risk, the Board of Directors is responsible for risk oversight. The Board fulfills its risk oversight responsibilities primarily through its committees. The risks faced by the Corporation include, among others, credit risk, allowance for loan loss risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk, market risk for its common stock, economic conditions risk, operational risk, technology risk and regulatory and legislative risk. Credit Risk. For both investment securities and loans, there is always the risk that the Bank will be unable to collect all amounts due according to the contractual terms. Credit risk in the Bank’s securities portfolio has been addressed by adopting a board committee approved investment policy that, among other things, limits terms and types of holdings, and specifies minimum required credit ratings. Allowable investments include direct obligations of the U.S. government and its agencies, highly rated obligations of states and political subdivisions, and highly rated corporate obligations. At the time of purchase, bonds of states and political subdivisions must generally be rated A or better, notes of states and political subdivisions must generally be rated MIG-2 (or equivalent) or better, commercial paper must be rated A-1 or P-1, and corporate bonds must be rated A or better. In addition, management periodically reviews issuer credit ratings for all securities in the Bank’s portfolio other than those issued by the U.S. government or its agencies. Any significant deterioration in the creditworthiness of an issuer will be analyzed and action will be taken if deemed appropriate. Credit risk in the Bank’s loan portfolio has been addressed by adopting board committee approved commercial, consumer, and mortgage loan policies and maintaining loan review and appraisal review functions. The loan policies contain what the Corporation believes to be appropriate underwriting guidelines which include, among other things, specific loan approval requirements, maximum loan terms, loan to appraised value and debt service coverage limits for mortgage loans, FICO minimums and environmental study requirements. The credit risk within the Bank’s loan portfolio primarily stems from factors such as borrower size, geographic concentration, industry concentration, real estate values and environmental contamination. The Bank’s commercial loans, including those secured by mortgages, are primarily made to small and medium-sized businesses. Such loans sometimes involve a higher degree of risk than those to larger companies because such businesses may have shorter operating histories, higher debt-to-equity ratios and may lack sophistication in internal record keeping and financial and operational controls. In addition, most of the Bank’s loans are made to businesses and consumers on Long Island and in New York City, and a large percentage of these loans are mortgage loans secured by properties located in those areas. At December 31, 2010, multifamily loans amounted to approximately $208 million and comprised approximately 50% of the Bank’s total commercial mortgage portfolio and 24% of the Bank’s total loans secured by real estate. The primary source of repayment for multifamily loans is cash flows from the underlying properties. Such cash flows are dependent on the strength of the local economy. In the last few years general economic conditions have been unfavorable as characterized by high levels of unemployment, declines in commercial and residential real estate values, and increases in commercial real estate vacancies. These conditions have caused some of the Bank’s borrowers to be unable to make the required contractual payments on their loans and could cause the Bank to be unable to realize the full carrying value of such loans through foreclosure or other collection efforts. Environmental impairment of properties securing mortgage loans is also a risk. However, at the present time, the Corporation is not aware of any existing loans in the portfolio where there is environmental pollution originating on or near the mortgaged properties that would materially affect the value of the portfolio. Allowance for Loan Loss Risk. The Bank maintains an allowance for loan losses in an amount believed to be adequate to absorb probable incurred losses in its loan portfolio. In arriving at the allowance for loan losses, an impairment analysis is performed on each loan where it is probable that the borrower will not make all required principal and interest payments according to contractual terms. In addition, losses for all other loans in the Bank’s portfolio are determined on a pooled basis taking into account, among other things, historical loss experience, loan risk ratings, national and local economic conditions and trends, environmental risks, trends in volume and terms of loans, concentrations of credit, changes in lending policies and procedures, changes in the quality of the Bank’s loan review function, and experience, ability, and depth of the Bank’s lending staff. Because estimating the allowance for loan losses is highly subjective in nature and involves a variety of estimates and assumptions that are inherently uncertain, there is the risk that management’s estimate may not accurately capture all probable incurred losses in the loan portfolio. The Bank’s allowance at any point in time may need to be adjusted upward based on, among other things, additional information that comes to light after the estimate is made, changes in circumstances, or a recommendation by bank regulators based on their review of the Bank’s portfolio. Such an adjustment could result in the need for a significant increase in the Bank’s provision for loan losses and have a material adverse impact on the Bank’s financial condition and results of operations. Interest Rate Risk. The Bank’s results of operations are subject to risk resulting from interest rate fluctuations in general and having assets and liabilities that have different maturity, repricing, and prepayment/withdrawal characteristics. The Bank defines interest rate risk as the risk that the Bank's earnings and/or net portfolio value (present value of expected future cash flows from assets less the present value of expected future cash flows from liabilities) will change when interest rates change. The Bank has addressed interest rate risk by adopting a Board committee approved interest rate risk policy which sets forth quantitative risk limits and calls for monitoring and controlling interest rate risk through a variety of techniques including the use of interest rate sensitivity models and traditional repricing gap analysis. In addition, management utilizes a consultant with expertise in bank asset/liability management. 6 Because the Bank’s loans and investment securities generally reprice slower than its interest-bearing liabilities, an immediate increase in interest rates uniformly across the yield curve should initially have a negative effect on net interest income. However, if the Bank does not increase the rates paid on its deposit accounts as quickly or in the same amount as increases in market interest rates and/or owns interest rate caps that are in-the-money at the time of the interest rate increase or become in-the-money as a result of the increase, the magnitude of the negative impact will decline and the impact could even be positive. Over a longer period of time, and assuming that interest rates remain stable after the initial rate increase and the Bank purchases securities and originates loans at yields higher than those maturing and reprices loans at higher yields, the impact of an increase in interest rates should be positive. This occurs primarily because with the passage of time more loans and investment securities will reprice at the higher rates and there will be no offsetting increase in interest expense for those loans and investment securities funded by noninterest-bearing checking deposits and capital. Conversely, a decrease in interest rates uniformly across the yield curve should initially have a positive impact on the Bank’s net interest income. Furthermore, if the Bank owns interest rate floors that are in-the-money at the time of the interest rate decrease or become in-the-money as a result of the decrease, the magnitude of the positive impact should increase. However, if the Bank does not or cannot decrease the rates paid on its deposit accounts as quickly or in the same amount as decreases in market interest rates, regardless of whether or not it owns interest rate floors, the magnitude of the positive impact will decline and could even be negative. If interest rates decline, or have declined, and are sustained at the lower levels and, as a result, the Bank purchases securities at lower yields and loans are originated or repriced at lower yields, the impact on net interest income should be negative because a significant portion of the Bank’s average interest-earning assets are funded by noninterest-bearing checking deposits and capital. Liquidity Risk. Liquidity risk is the risk that the Bank will not have sufficient funds to accommodate loan growth, meet deposit outflows or make contractual payments on borrowing arrangements. The Bank has addressed liquidity risk by adopting a Board committee approved liquidity policy and liquidity contingency plan that set forth quantitative risk limits and a protocol for responding to liquidity stress conditions should they arise. The Bank encounters significant competition in its market area from branches of larger banks, various community banks, credit unions and other financial services organizations. This, in addition to renewed consumer confidence in the equity markets, could cause deposit outflows, and such outflows could be significant. However, the Bank believes that its present sources of liquidity, the details of which follow, are more than sufficient to meet loan demand, accommodate deposit outflows, and provide sufficient contingency liquidity. The Bank’s primary internal sources of liquidity are its overnight investments, investment securities designated as available-for-sale, and maturities and monthly payments on its investment securities and loan portfolios. At December 31, 2010, the Bank had approximately $414 million of unencumbered available-for-sale securities. The Bank is a member of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (“FRB”) and the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York (“FHLB”), has repurchase agreements in place with a number of brokerage firms and commercial banks and has federal funds lines with several commercial banks. In addition to customer deposits, the Bank’s primary external sources of liquidity are secured borrowings from the FRB, FHLB and repurchase agreement counterparties. In addition, the Bank can purchase overnight federal funds under its existing lines. However, the Bank’s FRB membership, FHLB membership, repurchase agreements and federal funds lines do not represent legal commitments to extend credit to the Bank. The amount that the Bank can potentially borrow is currently dependent on, among other things, the amount of unencumbered eligible securities and loans that the Bank can use as collateral and the collateral margins required by the lenders. At December 31, 2010, based on collateral in place at the FRB and FHLB, the Bank had a total borrowing capacity of approximately $700 million. Market Risk for the Corporation’s Common Stock. The Corporation’s common stock is included in the Russell 3000 and Russell 2000 Indexes, which were reconstituted in June 2010. Upon reconstitution, the average market capitalization of companies in the Russell 2000 Index was $987 million, the median market capitalization was $448 million, the capitalization of the largest company in the index was $2.3 billion, and the capitalization of the smallest company in the index was $112 million. The Corporation’s market capitalization on December 31, 2010 was approximately $250 million. The Corporation believes that inclusion in the Russell indexes has positively impacted the price, trading volume and liquidity of its common stock. Conversely, if the Corporation’s market capitalization falls below the minimum necessary to be included in the indexes at any future reconstitution date, the opposite could occur. Economic Conditions Risk. National and local economic conditions remain unfavorable. This poses significant risks to both the Corporation’s business and the banking industry as a whole. Specific risks include: reduced loan demand from quality borrowers; increased loan loss provisions resulting from a deterioration in loan quality caused by, among other things, depressed real estate values and high levels of unemployment; interest rate volatility; price competition for deposits due to liquidity concerns or otherwise; and volatile equity markets. Operational Risk. The Corporation relies on its system of internal controls to ensure that transactions are captured, recorded, processed and reported properly; confidential customer information is safeguarded; and fraud by employees and persons outside the Corporation is detected and prevented. The Corporation’s internal controls may prove to be ineffective or employees may fail to comply with or override the controls, either of which could result in significant financial loss to the Corporation, adverse action by bank regulatory authorities or the SEC, and damage to the Corporation’s reputation. 7 Technology Risk. Communications and information systems are essential to the conduct of the Bank’s business, as such systems are used to manage customer relationships, deposits, loans, general ledger accounts, financial reporting and regulatory compliance. While the Bank has established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the impact of systems failures, interruptions, and security breaches, there can be no assurance that such events will not occur or that they will be adequately addressed if they do. In addition, any compromise of the Bank’s information security systems could deter customers from using the Bank’s web site and its internet banking service, both of which involve the transmission of confidential information. Although the Bank relies on commonly used security and processing systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to ensure the secure transmission and processing of data, these precautions may not protect our systems from all compromises or breaches of security. In addition, the Bank outsources certain of its data processing to third-party providers. If third-party providers encounter difficulties, or if the Bank has difficulty communicating with them, the Bank’s ability to adequately process and account for customer transactions could be affected, and the Bank’s business operations could be adversely impacted. Threats to information security also exist in the processing of customer information through various other vendors and their personnel. The occurrence of any systems failure, interruption, or breach of security could damage the Bank’s reputation and result in a loss of customers and business, could subject the Bank to additional regulatory scrutiny, or could expose the Bank to civil litigation and possible financial liability. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. The delivery of financial products and services has become increasingly technology-driven. The Bank’s ability to meet the needs of its customers competitively, and in a cost-efficient manner, is dependent on its ability to keep pace with technological advances and to invest in new technology as it becomes available. The ability to keep pace with technological change is important, and failure to do so could have a material adverse impact on the Corporation’s business and therefore its financial condition and results of operations. The Bank has addressed technology risks through the use of logon and user access controls, transaction limits, firewalls, antivirus software, intrusion protection monitoring and third party vulnerability scans. Systems failure or interruption has been addressed by adopting a disaster recovery and contingency plan. In addition, for all third-party providers of data processing services, the Bank obtains and reviews audit reports prepared by independent registered public accounting firms regarding their financial condition and the effectiveness of their internal controls. Regulatory and Legislative Risk. The Corporation and the Bank are subject to regulation, supervision and examination by, among others, the FRB, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which also insures the Bank’s deposits. Regulation and supervision govern the activities in which a bank and its holding company may engage and are intended for, among other things, the protection of depositors. Regulatory requirements affect virtually all aspects of the Corporation’s and the Bank’s business including investment practices, lending practices, deposit offerings and terms and capital levels. The regulators have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including imposing restrictions on bank operations, imposing deposit insurance premiums and other assessments, setting required levels for the allowance for loan losses and capital, and imposing restrictions on the ability to pay cash dividends. Changes in laws, regulations and supervisory policies, or the Corporation’s and the Bank’s compliance with these laws and regulations as judged by the regulators, could have a significant negative impact on the Corporation’s operations and financial results. The Corporation controls the risk of noncompliance with laws and regulations by having Board approved compliance policies, hiring and retaining employees with the experience and skills necessary to properly address compliance on an ongoing basis, and consulting, when necessary with legal counsel on compliance matters. Additional information regarding regulatory and legislative risk can be found in the Corporation’s 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders under the caption “Legislation and Regulatory Matters” contained in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” which has been incorporated by reference into Item 7 of this Form 10-K. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 