RISK FACTORS Investors should carefully consider the risks described below and all other information in this Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that it currently deems immaterial may also impair the Company’s business and operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of the Company’s common stock could decline and investors may lose all or part of the money they paid to buy the Company’s common stock. The Company Is Highly Dependent Upon The RF Connector and Cable Assembly Segment, And Any Major Decline In That Division’s Operations Would Negatively Affect The Company As A Whole. Of the Company’s four operating segments, the RF Connector and Cable Assembly segment is the largest; accounting for approximately 71% and 86% of the Company’s total sales for the fiscal years ended October 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The Company expects the RF Connector and Cable Assembly segment products will continue to account for the majority of the Company’s revenues for the near future. Accordingly, an adverse change in the operations of that segment could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. Factors that could adversely affect the RF Connector and Cable segment are described below. 8 Difficult Conditions In The Global Economy In General Have Adversely Affected the Company’s Business And Results Of Operations And It Is Uncertain If These Conditions Will Improve In The Near Future, And They May Worsen. A prolonged economic downturn, both in the U.S. and worldwide, may continue to lead to lower sales or reduced sales growth, reduced prices, lower gross margins, and increased bad debt risks, all of which could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Slowing economic activity, particularly in the telecommunication and data communication and wireless communications industries that represent the Company’s largest target market, may adversely impact the demand for the Company’s products. Although the Company has been able to operate profitably, sales in fiscal 2011 of its RF Connector products decreased slightly compared with the prior year. If the current economic downturn continues or intensifies, the Company’s results could be more adversely affected in the future. There could be a number of other adverse follow-on effects from the credit crisis on the Company’s business, including insolvency of certain key distributors, key suppliers, contract manufacturers and customers. The Company Depends On Third-Party Contract Manufacturers For A Majority Of Its Connector Manufacturing Needs. If They Are Unable To Manufacture A Sufficient Quantity Of High-Quality Products On A Timely And Cost-Efficient Basis, The Company’s Net Revenue And Profitability Would Be Harmed And Its Reputation May Suffer. Substantially all of the Company’s RF Connector products are manufactured by third-party contract manufacturers. The Company relies on them to procure components for RF Connectors and in certain cases to design, assemble and test its products on a timely and cost-efficient basis. If the Company’s contract manufacturers are unable to complete design work on a timely basis, the Company will experience delays in product development and its ability to compete may be harmed. In addition, because some of the Company’s manufacturers have manufacturing facilities in Taiwan and China, their ability to provide the Company with adequate supplies of high-quality products on a timely and cost-efficient basis is subject to a number of additional risks and uncertainties, including earthquakes and other natural disasters and political, social and economic instability. If the Company’s manufacturers are unable to provide it with adequate supplies of high-quality products on a timely and cost-efficient basis, the Company’s operations would be disrupted and its net revenue and profitability would suffer. Moreover, if the Company’s third-party contract manufacturers cannot consistently produce high-quality products that are free of defects, the Company may experience a higher rate of product returns, which would also reduce its profitability and may harm the Company’s reputation and brand. The Company does not currently have any agreements with any of its contract manufacturers, and such manufacturers could stop manufacturing products for the Company at any time. Although the Company believes that it could locate alternate contract manufacturers if any of its manufacturers terminated their business, the Company’s operations could be impacted until alternate manufacturers are found. The Company’s Dependence On Third-Party Manufacturers Increases The Risk That It Will Not Have An Adequate Supply Of Products Or That Its Product Costs Will Be Higher Than Expected. The risks associated with the Company’s dependence upon third parties which develop and manufacture and assemble the Company’s products, include: · reduced control over delivery schedules and quality; · risks of inadequate manufacturing yields and excessive costs; · the potential lack of adequate capacity during periods of excess demand; and · potential increases in prices due to raw material and/or labor costs. These risks may lead to increased costs or delay product delivery, which would harm the Company’s profitability and customer relationships. If The Manufacturers of the Company’s Coaxial Connectors Or Other Products Discontinue The Manufacturing Processes Needed To Meet The Company’s Demands Or Fail To Upgrade Their Technologies, the Company May Face Production Delays. The Company’s coaxial connector and other product requirements typically represent a small portion of the total production of the third-party manufacturers. As a result, the Company is subject to the risk that a third party manufacturer will cease production of some of the Company’s products or fail to continue to advance the process design technologies on which the manufacturing of the Company’s products are based. Each of these events could increase the Company’s costs, harm its ability to deliver products on time, or develop new products. 9 The Company’s Dependence Upon Independent Distributors To Sell And Market The Company’s Products Exposes The Company To The Risk That Such Distributors May Decrease Their Sales Of The Company’s Products Or Terminate Their Relationship With The Company. The Company’s sales efforts are primarily affected through independent distributors. Sales through independent distributors accounted for approximately 49% of the net sales of the Company for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2011. Although the Company has entered into written agreements with most of the distributors, the agreements are nonexclusive and generally may be terminated by either party upon 30-60 days’ written notice. The Company’s distributors are not within the control of the Company, are not obligated to purchase products from the Company, and may also sell other lines of products. There can be no assurance that these distributors will continue their current relationships with the Company or that they will not give higher priority to the sale of other products, which could include products of competitors. A reduction in sales efforts or discontinuance of sales of the Company’s products by its distributors would lead to reduced sales and could materially adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and business. Selling through indirect channels such as distributors may limit the Company’s contact with its ultimate customers and the Company’s ability to assure customer satisfaction. A Portion Of The Company’s Sales Is Dependent Upon A Few Principal Customers, The Loss Of Whom Could Materially Negatively Affect The Company’s Total Sales. One customer accounted for approximately 17% of the total sales of the Company for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2011. Although this customer has been an on-going major customer of the Company for at least the past 10 years and the Company has entered into a written distributor agreement with this customer, this customer does not have any minimum purchase obligations and could stop buying the Company’s products at any time. A reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from this customer or the loss of this customer could significantly reduce the Company’s revenues and profits. The Company cannot provide assurance that this customer or any of its current customers will continue to place orders, that orders by existing customers will continue at current or historical levels or that the Company will be able to obtain orders from new customers. Certain of The Company’s Markets Are Subject To Rapid Technological Change, So the Company’s Success In These Markets Depends On Its Ability To Develop And Introduce New Products. Although most of the Company’s products have a stable market and are only gradually phased out, certain of the new and emerging markets, such as the wireless digital transmission markets, are characterized by: · rapidly changing technologies; · evolving and competing industry standards; · short product life cycles; · changing customer needs; · emerging competition; · frequent new product introductions and enhancements; and · rapid product obsolescence. To develop new products for the connector and wireless digital transmission markets, the Company must develop, gain access to and use new technologies in a cost-effective and timely manner. In addition, the Company must maintain close working relationship with key customers in order to develop new products that meet customers’ changing needs. The Company also must respond to changing industry standards and technological changes on a timely and cost-effective basis. Products for connector applications are based on industry standards that are continually evolving. The Company’s ability to compete in the future will depend on its ability to identify and ensure compliance with these evolving industry standards. If the Company is not successful in developing or using new technologies or in developing new products or product enhancements, its future revenues may be materially affected. The Company’s attempt to keep up with technological advances may require substantial time and expense. 10 Because The Markets In Which The Company Competes Are Highly Competitive, A Failure To Effectively Compete Could Result In An Immediate And Substantial Loss Of Market Share. The markets in which the Company operates are highly competitive and the Company expects that competition will increase in these markets. In particular, the connector and communications markets in which the Company’s products are sold are intensely competitive. A failure to effectively compete in this market could result in an immediate and substantial loss of revenues and market share. Because most of the Company’s sales are derived from products that are not proprietary or that can be used to distinguish the Company from its competitors, the Company’s ability to compete successfully in these markets depends on a number of factors, including: · product quality; · reliability; · customer support; · time-to-market; · price; · market acceptance of competitors’ products; and · general economic conditions. In addition, the Company’s competitors or customers may offer enhancements to its existing products or offer new products based on new technologies, industry standards or customer requirements that have the potential to replace or provide lower-cost or higher performance alternatives to the Company’s products. The introduction of enhancements or new products by the Company’s competitors could render its existing and future products obsolete or unmarketable. Many of the Company’s competitors have significantly greater financial and other resources. In certain circumstances, the Company’s customers or potential customers have internal manufacturing capabilities with which the Company may compete. If The Industries Into Which The Company Sells Its Products Experience Recession Or Other Cyclical Effects Impacting The Budgets Of Its Customers, The Company’s Operating Results Could Be Negatively Impacted. The primary customers for the Company’s coaxial connectors are in the communications industries. Any significant downturn in the Company’s customers’ markets, in particular, or in general economic conditions which result in the cut back of budgets would likely result in a reduction in demand for the Company’s products and services and could harm the Company’s business. Historically, the communications industry has been cyclical, affected by both economic conditions and industry-specific cycles. Depressed general economic conditions and cyclical downturns in the communications industry have each had an adverse effect on sales of communications equipment, OEMs and their suppliers, including the Company. No assurance can be given that the connector industry will not experience a material downturn in the near future. Any cyclical downturn in the connector and/or communications industry could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Because The Company Sells Its Products To Foreign Customers, The Company Is Exposed To All Of The Risks Associated With International Sales, Including Foreign Currency Exposure. Sales to customers located outside the United States, either directly or through U.S. and foreign distributors, accounted for approximately 11% of the net sales of the Company during the years ended October 31, 2011 and 2010. International revenues are subject to a number of risks, including: · longer accounts receivable payment cycles; · difficulty in enforcing agreements and in collecting accounts receivable; · tariffs and other restrictions on foreign trade; · economic and political instability; and the · burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws. The Company’s foreign sales are also affected by general economic conditions in its international markets. A prolonged economic downturn in its foreign markets could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. There can be no assurance that the factors described above will not have an adverse material effect on the Company’s future international revenues and, consequently, on the financial condition, results of operations and business of the Company. 11 Since sales made to foreign customers or foreign distributors have historically been in U.S. dollars, the Company has not been exposed to the risks of foreign currency fluctuations. However, if the Company in the future is required to accept sales denominated in the currencies of the countries where sales are made, the Company will thereafter also be exposed to currency fluctuation risks. The Loss Of Key Personnel Could Adversely Affect The Company’s Operations. The Company’s success will depend to a significant extent on the continued service of the Company’s senior executives including Howard Hill, its Chief Executive Officer, and certain other key employees, including certain technical and marketing personnel. The Company’s employment agreement with Mr. Hill expires by its terms on July 31, 2013. No assurance can be given that Mr. Hill will continue to be employed by this Company after the expiration of his employment agreement. If the Company lost the services of Mr. Hill or one or more of the Company’s key executives or employees (including if one or more of the Company’s officers or employees decided to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with the Company), this could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, operating results, and financial condition. The Company May Make Future Acquisitions, Which Will Involve Numerous Risks. Since August 2004, the Company has purchased the operations of four smaller businesses (it purchased Aviel Electronics in Las Vegas, Nevada, in August 2004, Oddcables.com in San Diego, California, in September 2005, RadioMobile, Inc. in San Diego, California, in September 2007, and Cables Unlimited in Yaphank New York in June 2011). The Company regularly considers potential acquisitions of other companies that could expand the Company’s product line or customer base and may in the future make additional acquisitions. Accordingly, the Company will be subject to numerous risks associated with the acquisition of additional companies, including: · diversion of management’s attention; · the effect on the Company’s financial statements of the amortization of acquired intangible assets; · the cost associated with acquisitions and the integration of acquired operations; · the Company may not be able to secure capital to finance future acquisitions to the extent additional debt or equity is needed; and · assumption of unknown liabilities, or other unanticipated events or circumstances. Any of these risks could materially harm the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that any business that the Company acquires will achieve anticipated revenues or operating results. The Company Has No Patent Rights In The Technology Employed In Its Products, Which May Limit the Company’s Ability To Compete. The Company does not hold any United States or foreign patents and does not have any patents pending. The Company does not seek to protect its rights in the technology that it develops or that the Company’s third-party contract manufacturers develop by means of the patent laws, although it does protect some aspects of its proprietary products and technologies by means of copyright and trade secret laws. Accordingly, competitors can and do sell many of the same products as the Company, and the Company cannot prevent or restrict such competition. Volatility of Trading Prices Of The Company’s Stock Could Result In A Loss On An Investment In The Company’s Stock. In the past several years the market price of the Company’s common stock has varied greatly, and the volume of the Company’s common stock traded has fluctuated greatly as well. These fluctuations often occur independently of the Company’s performance or any announcements by the Company. Factors that may result in such fluctuations include: · any shortfall in revenues or net income from revenues or net income expected by securities analysts · fluctuations in the Company’s financial results or the results of other connector and communications-related companies, including those of the Company’s direct competitors · changes in analysts’ estimates of the Company’s financial performance, the financial performance of the Company’s competitors, or the financial performance of connector and communications-related public companies in general · general conditions in the connector and communications industries 12 · changes in the Company’s revenue growth rates or the growth rates of the Company’s competitors · sales of large blocks of the Company’s common stock · conditions in the financial markets in general In addition, the stock market may from time to time experience extreme price and volume fluctuations, which may be unrelated to the operating performance of any specific company. Accordingly, the market prices of the Company’s common stock may be expected to experience significant fluctuations in the future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 