ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Corporation is exposed to a variety of risks, some of which are inherent in the banking business. The more significant of these are addressed by the Corporation’s written policies and procedures, the adherence to which is monitored on an ongoing basis. The risks faced by the Corporation include, among others, credit risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk, market risk for the Corporation’s common stock, changes in and compliance with laws and regulations, legislative risk and economic conditions risk. Credit Risk. For both investment securities and loans, there is always the risk that the Corporation will be unable to collect all amounts due according to the contractual terms. Credit risk in the Corporation’s securities portfolio has been addressed by adopting a board committee approved investment policy that, among other things, limits terms and types of holdings, and specifies minimum required credit ratings. Allowable investments include direct obligations of the U.S. government and its agencies, highly rated obligations of states and political subdivisions, and highly rated corporate obligations. At the time of purchase, bonds of states and political subdivisions must generally be rated A or better, notes of states and political subdivisions must generally be rated MIG-2 (or equivalent) or better, commercial paper must be rated A-1 or P-1, and corporate bonds must be rated A or better. In addition, management periodically reviews issuer credit ratings for all securities in the Corporation’s portfolio other than those issued by the U.S. government or its agencies. Any significant deterioration in the creditworthiness of an issuer will be analyzed and action will be taken if deemed appropriate. Credit risk in the Corporation’s loan portfolio has been addressed by adopting board approved commercial, consumer, and mortgage loan policies and maintaining a loan review function. The loan policies contain what the Corporation believes to be appropriate underwriting guidelines which include, among other things, specific loan approval requirements, maximum loan terms, loan to appraised value limits for mortgage loans, and environmental study requirements. The credit risk within the Corporation’s loan portfolio primarily stems from factors such as borrower size, geographic concentration, industry concentration, real estate values and environmental contamination. The Corporation’s commercial loans, including those secured by mortgages, are primarily made to small and medium-sized businesses. Such loans sometimes involve a higher degree of risk than those to larger companies because such businesses may have shorter operating histories and higher debt-to-equity ratios than larger companies and may lack sophistication in internal record keeping and financial and operational controls. In addition, most of the Corporation’s loans are made to businesses and consumers on Long Island and in New York City, and a large percentage of these loans are mortgage loans secured by properties located in those areas. The Bank also has a significant portfolio of multifamily loans, with the primary source of repayment for those loans, the cash flows from the underlying properties, being dependent on the strength of the local economy. Although local economic conditions had been good and real estate values had 6 grown considerably over a number of years, over the last few years residential real estate values on Long Island declined and economic conditions deteriorated. The decline and deterioration could continue, and commercial real estate values could also decline. This could cause some of the Bank’s borrowers to be unable to make the required contractual payments on their loans and the Corporation to be unable to realize the full carrying value of such loans through foreclosure. Environmental impairment of properties securing mortgage loans is also a risk. However, at the present time, the Corporation is not aware of any existing loans in the portfolio where there is environmental pollution originating on or near the mortgaged properties that would materially affect the value of the portfolio. Interest Rate Risk. The Corporation’s results of operations are subject to risk resulting from interest rate fluctuations generally and having assets and liabilities that have different maturity, repricing, and prepayment/withdrawal characteristics. The Corporation defines interest rate risk as the risk that the Corporation’s earnings and/or net portfolio value (present value of expected future cash flows from assets less the present value of expected future cash flows from liabilities) will change when interest rates change. The Corporation has addressed interest rate risk by adopting a committee approved interest rate risk policy which sets forth quantitative risk limits and calls for monitoring and controlling interest rate risk through a variety of techniques including the use of interest rate sensitivity models and traditional repricing gap analysis. In addition, management has retained an outside consultant with expertise in asset liability management. Because the Corporation’s loans and investment securities generally reprice slower than its interest-bearing liabilities, an immediate increase in interest rates uniformly across the yield curve should initially have a negative effect on net interest income. However, if the Corporation does not increase the rates paid on its deposit accounts as quickly or in the same amount as increases in market interest rates and/or owns interest rate caps that are in-the-money at the time of the interest rate increase or become in-the-money as a result of the increase, the magnitude of the negative impact will decline and the impact could even be positive. Over a longer period of time, and assuming that interest rates remain stable after the initial rate increase and the Corporation purchases securities and originates loans at yields higher than those maturing and reprices loans at higher yields, the impact of an increase in interest rates should be positive. This occurs primarily because with the passage of time more loans and investment securities will reprice at the higher rates and there will be no offsetting increase in interest expense for those loans and investment securities funded by noninterest-bearing checking deposits and capital. Conversely, a decrease in interest rates uniformly across the yield curve should initially have a positive impact on the Corporation’s net interest income. However, if the Corporation owns interest rate floors that are in-the-money at the time of the interest rate decrease or become in-the-money as a result of the decrease, the magnitude of the positive impact should increase. However, if the Corporation does not or cannot decrease the rates paid on its deposit accounts as quickly or in the same amount as decreases in market interest rates, regardless of whether or not it owns interest rate floors, the magnitude of the positive impact will decline and could even be negative. If interest rates decline, or have declined, and are sustained at the lower levels and, as a result, the Corporation purchases securities at lower yields and loans are originated or repriced at lower yields, the impact on net interest income should be negative because a significant portion of the Corporation’s average interest-earning assets are funded by noninterest-bearing checking deposits and capital. Liquidity Risk. Liquidity risk is the risk that the Corporation will not have sufficient funds to accommodate loan growth and meet deposit outflows. The Corporation has addressed liquidity risk by adopting a board committee approved liquidity and liquidity contingency plan policies that set forth quantitative risk limits and include, among other things, a liquidity contingency plan. The Corporation’s market area is currently characterized by aggressive deposit pricing and extensive branching by other financial institutions. Either could cause deposit outflows, and such outflows could be significant. However, the Corporation believes that its present sources of liquidity, the details of which follow, are more than sufficient to meet loan demand, accommodate deposit outflows, and provide sufficient contingency liquidity. The Corporation’s primary internal sources of liquidity are its overnight investments, investment securities designated as available-for-sale, and maturities and monthly payments on its investment securities and loan portfolios. At December 31, 2008, the Corporation had approximately $93 million in unencumbered available-for-sale securities. The Corporation is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York (“FHLB”) and has repurchase agreements in place with a number of brokerage firms and commercial banks. In addition to customer deposits, the Corporation’s primary external sources of liquidity are secured borrowings in the form of FHLB advances and repurchase agreements. However, neither the Corporation’s FHLB membership nor repurchase agreements represent legal commitments on the part of the FHLB or repurchase agreement counterparties to extend credit to the Corporation. The amount that the Corporation can potentially borrow from the FHLB and brokerage firms is dependent on, among other things, the amount of unencumbered eligible securities and loans that the Corporation can use as collateral. At December 31, 2008, the Corporation had unencumbered securities of approximately $183 million that are eligible collateral for borrowing under repurchase agreements. Of these securities, $35 million are eligible collateral for FHLB borrowings. In addition, the Bank is currently working towards increasing its liquidity by obtaining FHLB approval to pledge its residential and commercial mortgages as collateral for borrowings. 7 The Corporation can also purchase overnight federal funds on an unsecured basis under lines with two other commercial banks. These lines in the aggregate amount of $25 million do not represent legal commitments to extend credit on the part of the other banks. As a backup to borrowing from the FHLB, brokerage firms and other commercial banks, the Corporation is eligible to borrow on a secured basis at the Federal Reserve Bank (“FRB”) discount window under the primary credit program. Primary credit, which is normally extended on a very short-term basis, typically overnight, at a rate which is currently between 25 and 50 basis points above the federal funds target rate, is viewed by the FRB as a backup source of short-term funds for sound depository institutions like the Bank. The amount that the Bank can borrow under the primary credit program depends on, among other things, the amount of available eligible collateral. Market Risk for the Corporation’s Common Stock. Trading volume in the Corporation’s common stock is limited. The publicly reported trading volume in 2008 and 2007 was 979,245 and 615,795 shares, respectively. Open market purchases by the Corporation under its share repurchase program accounted for 14.6% of the trading volume in 2008 and 12.2% in 2007. A reduction or discontinuance of its share repurchase program could adversely impact market liquidity for its common stock, the price of its common stock, or both. In addition, the Corporation’s common stock is included in the Russell Microcap Index. When reconstituted in June 2008, the average market capitalization of companies in the Russell Microcap Index was $310 million, the median market capitalization was $169 million, the capitalization of the largest company in the index was $617 million, and the capitalization of the smallest company in the index was $37 million. The Corporation’s market capitalization as of December 31, 2008 was approximately $171 million. The strong performance of the Corporation’s stock over the last year relative to the overall market should result in its stock being included in the Russell 3000 and 2000 Indexes when they are reconstituted in June 2009. The Corporation believes that migration of its stock from the Russell Microcap to the Russell 3000 and 2000 Indexes will improve the stock’s price, trading volume and liquidity. Conversely, if the Corporation’s market capitalization falls below the minimum necessary to be included in the Russell 3000 and 2000 Indexes or the Russell Microcap Index at any future reconstitution date, the opposite could occur. Laws and Regulation. The Corporation and the Bank (collectively referred to as the “Corporation”) are subject to extensive federal and state laws and regulations governing banks, bank holding companies and public companies. The Corporation’s primary regulators include the Federal Reserve Board, the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Securities and Exchange Commission (collectively referred to as the “Regulators”). The Comptroller of the Currency regularly examines the Bank for safety and soundness and compliance with banking laws and regulations. Changes in laws and regulations affecting the Corporation, or the degree of the Corporation’s compliance with such laws and regulations as judged by the Regulators, could have a significant impact on the Corporation’s operations and its financial results. The Corporation controls the risk of noncompliance with laws and regulations by having Board approved compliance policies, hiring and retaining employees with the experience and skills necessary to properly address compliance on an ongoing basis, and consulting, when necessary with legal counsel on compliance matters. Recently Enacted Legislation. In the latter part of 2008, two major pieces of legislation (the “Legislation”) impacting the financial services industry were enacted; the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 and the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008. This Legislation was enacted to address the subprime mortgage crisis and in response to capital adequacy, asset quality, management, liquidity, earnings and sensitivity to market risk problems being experienced by a large number of financial institutions. It contains broad changes that impact, either directly or indirectly, the Bank’s business operations. The significant changes brought about by this Legislation include, among others, the following: • The placing of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac into conservatorship by their primary regulator, the Federal Housing Finance Agency; • A temporary increase through December 31, 2009 in FDIC insurance coverage from $100,000 to $250,000; • A temporary guarantee by the FDIC through December 31, 2009 of all transaction account balances, without limitation, which is in addition to and separate from the $250,000 insurance limit under the FDIC’s general deposit insurance regulations. Transaction accounts include traditional checking accounts and funds swept from such accounts to another noninterest-bearing deposit account, NOW accounts paying less than .5% interest, and Interest on Lawyer Accounts; • A guarantee by the FDIC of the senior unsecured debt of financial institutions issued through June 30, 2009. The guarantee expires upon maturity of the debt or June 30, 2012, whichever is earlier; • A provision that allows the Federal Reserve Bank to pay interest to banks on sterile reserves beginning October 1, 2008, three years earlier than previously permitted; 8 • The creation of the $700 billion Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”) within the U.S. Treasury Department to purchase troubled assets from any financial institution through December 31, 2009; • As part of the TARP, the $250 billion Capital Purchase Program that enables financial institutions to raise capital by selling senior preferred shares to the federal government. Financial institutions may opt out of the FDIC’s unlimited guarantee of transaction account balances and the FDIC’s guarantee of senior unsecured debt. In addition, raising capital by selling senior preferred shares to the federal government is voluntary on the part of banks. The Bank did not opt out of the FDIC’s transaction account and senior unsecured debt guarantees and, based on the Bank’s strong capital position, chose not to participate in the Capital Purchase Program. In addition, the Bank has no assets in its loan or securities portfolios that it would consider selling to the Treasury Department under the TARP. In February 2009, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the “Act”) became law. Otherwise known as the Stimulus Plan, the Act is a $787 billion package of spending, tax cuts and tax credits that’s designed to help pull the nation out of the significant current downturn. The provisions of the Act are intended to have positive impact on the economy and could significantly impact the Bank’s business on a near and longer-term basis. Also in February 2009, the FDIC took two actions designed to allow the Deposit Insurance Fund to withstand the existing problems in the banking industry. The first was the imposition of an emergency special assessment of 20 basis points on deposits of insured banks and savings associations as of June 30, 2009. The second was adoption of previously proposed changes to its risk-based assessment system. These changes considered, the Bank currently estimates that its FDIC insurance cost will increase by approximately $2,800,000 in 2009. Pending Legislation. Commercial checking deposits currently account for approximately 27% of the Corporation’s total deposits. Congress has been considering legislation that would allow corporate customers to cover checks by sweeping funds from interest-bearing deposit accounts each business day and repeal the prohibition of the payment of interest on corporate checking deposits. Either could have a material adverse impact on the Corporation’s future results of operations. Economic Conditions Risk. The recent deterioration of both national and local economic conditions poses significant risks to both the Corporation’s business and the banking industry as a whole. Specific risks include unstable interest rates, price competition for deposits due to liquidity concerns, declining real estate values, increasing unemployment, and the poor performance of the equity markets. The projected impact on the Corporation’s operating expenses in 2009 that are directly related to the deterioration in economic conditions include an increase of approximately $1,025,000 in pension expense and the aforementioned increase of $2,800,000 in FDIC insurance expense. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 