ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Corporation is exposed to a variety of risks, some of which are inherent in the banking business. The more significant of these are addressed by the Corporation’s written policies and procedures. While management is responsible for identifying, assessing and managing risk, the Board of Directors is responsible for risk oversight. The Board fulfills its risk oversight responsibilities primarily through its committees. The risks faced by the Corporation include, among others, credit risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk, market risk for its common stock, economic conditions risk, technology risk and regulatory and legislative risk. Credit Risk. For both investment securities and loans, there is always the risk that the Bank will be unable to collect all amounts due according to the contractual terms. Credit risk in the Bank’s securities portfolio has been addressed by adopting a board committee approved investment policy that, among other things, limits terms and types of holdings, and specifies minimum required credit ratings. Allowable investments include direct obligations of the U.S. government and its agencies, highly rated obligations of states and political subdivisions, and highly rated corporate obligations. At the time of purchase, bonds of states and political subdivisions must generally be rated A or better, notes of sta tes and political subdivisions must generally be rated MIG-2 (or equivalent) or better, commercial paper must be rated A-1 or P-1, and corporate bonds must be rated A or better. In addition, management periodically reviews issuer credit ratings for all securities in the Bank’s portfolio other than those issued by the U.S. government or its agencies. Any significant deterioration in the creditworthiness of an issuer will be analyzed and action will be taken if deemed appropriate. Credit risk in the Bank’s loan portfolio has been addressed by adopting board committee approved commercial, consumer, and mortgage loan policies and maintaining loan review and appraisal review functions. The loan policies contain what the Corporation believes to be appropriate underwriting guidelines which include, among other things, specific loan approval requirements, maximum loan terms, loan to appraised value and debt service coverage limits for mortgage loans, FICO minimums and environmental study requirements. The credit risk within the Bank’s loan portfolio primarily stems from factors such as borrower size, geographic concentration, industry concentration, real estate values and environmental contamination. The Bank’s commercial loans, including those secured by mortgages, are primarily made to small and medium-sized businesses. Such loans sometimes involve a higher degree of risk than those to larger companies because such businesses may have shorter operating histories and higher debt-to-equity ratios than larger companies and may lack sophistication in internal record keeping and financial and operational controls. In addition, most of the Bank’s loans are made to businesses and consumers on Long Island and in New York City, and a large percentage of these loans are mortgage loans secu red by properties located in those areas. The Bank also has a significant portfolio of multifamily loans, with the primary source of repayment for those loans being the cash flows from the underlying properties. Such cash flows are dependent on the strength of the local economy. Over the last year or so, general economic conditions on Long Island have deteriorated and residential real estate values have declined. More recently, commercial real estate values have also declined and commercial real estate vacancies have trended up. This could cause some of the Bank’s borrowers to be unable to make the required contractual payments on their loans and the Bank to be unable to realize the full carrying value of such loans through foreclosure. Environmental impairment of properties securing mortgage loans is also a risk. However, at the present time, the Corporation is not aware of any existing loans in the portfolio where there is e nvironmental pollution originating on or near the mortgaged properties that would materially affect the value of the portfolio. Interest Rate Risk. The Bank’s results of operations are subject to risk resulting from interest rate fluctuations in general and having assets and liabilities that have different maturity, repricing, and prepayment/withdrawal characteristics. The Bank defines interest rate risk as the risk that the Bank's earnings and/or net portfolio value (present value of expected future cash flows from assets less the present value of expected future cash flows from liabilities) will change when interest rates change. The Bank has addressed interest rate risk by adopting a Board committee approved interest rate risk policy which sets forth quantitative risk limits and calls for monitoring and controlling interest rate risk through a variety of techniques including the use of interest rate sensitivity models and traditional repricing gap analysis. In addition, management utilizes a consultant with expertise in bank asset/liability management. 6 Because the Bank’s loans and investment securities generally reprice slower than its interest-bearing liabilities, an immediate increase in interest rates uniformly across the yield curve should initially have a negative effect on net interest income. However, if the Bank does not increase the rates paid on its deposit accounts as quickly or in the same amount as increases in market interest rates and/or owns interest rate caps that are in-the-money at the time of the interest rate increase or become in-the-money as a result of the increase, the magnitude of the negative impact will decline and the impact could even be positive. Over a longer period of time, and assuming that interest rates remain stable after the initial rate increase and the Bank purchases securities and originates loans at yields higher than those maturing and reprices loans at higher yields, the impact of an increase in interest rates should be positive. This occurs primarily because with the passage of time more loans and investment securities will reprice at the higher rates and there will be no offsetting increase in interest expense for those loans and investment securities funded by noninterest-bearing checking deposits and capital. Conversely, a decrease in interest rates uniformly across the yield curve should initially have a positive impact on the Bank’s net interest income. However, if the Bank owns interest rate floors that are in-the-money at the time of the interest rate decrease or become in-the-money as a result of the decrease, the magnitude of the positive impact should increase. However, if the Bank does not or cannot decrease the rates paid on its deposit accounts as quickly or in the same amount as decreases in market interest rates, regardless of whether or not it owns interest rate floors, the magnitude of the positive impact will decline and could even be negative. If interest rates decline, or have declined, and are sustained at the lower levels and, as a result, the Bank purchases securities at lower yields and loans are originated or repriced at lower yields, the impact on net interest income should be negative because a significant portion of the Bank’s average interest-earning assets are funded by noninterest-bearing checking deposits and capital. Liquidity Risk. Liquidity risk is the risk that the Bank will not have sufficient funds to accommodate loan growth and meet deposit outflows. The Bank has addressed liquidity risk by adopting a Board committee approved liquidity policy that sets forth quantitative risk limits and a liquidity contingency plan. The Bank’s market area is currently characterized by extensive branching by other financial institutions. This, in addition to renewed consumer confidence in the equity markets, could cause deposit outflows, and such outflows could be significant. However, the Bank believes that its present sources of liquidity, the details of which follow, are more than sufficient to meet loan demand, accommoda te deposit outflows, and provide sufficient contingency liquidity. The Bank’s primary internal sources of liquidity are its overnight investments, investment securities designated as available-for-sale, and maturities and monthly payments on its investment securities and loan portfolios. At December 31, 2009, the Bank had approximately $321 million in unencumbered available-for-sale securities. The Bank is a member of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (“FRB”) and the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York (“FHLB”), has repurchase agreements in place with a number of brokerage firms and commercial banks and has federal funds lines with several commercial banks. In addition to customer deposits, the Bank’s primary external sources of liquidity are secured borrowings from the FRB, FHLB and repurchase agreement counterparties. In addition, the Bank can purchase overnight federal funds under its existing lines. However, the Bank’s FRB membership, FHLB membership, repurchase agreements and federal funds lines do not represent legal commitments to extend credit to the Bank. The amount that the Bank can potentially borrow is currently dependent on, among other things, the amount of unencumbered eligible securities and loans that the Bank can use as collateral and the collateral margins required by the lenders. At December 31, 2009, the Bank had unencumbered securities and loans of over $1 billion that are eligible collateral for borrowings. Market Risk for the Corporation’s Common Stock. The Corporation’s common stock was added to the Russell 3000 and Russell 2000 Indexes when they were reconstituted in June 2009. At that point the average market capitalization of companies in the Russell 2000 Index was $732 million, the median market capitalization was $306 million, the capitalization of the largest company in the index was $1.7 billion, and the capitalization of the smallest company in the index was $78 million. The Corporation’s market capitalization as of December 31, 2009 was approximately $182 million. The Corporation believes that inclusion in the Russell indexes has positively impacted the price, trading volume and liquidity of its common stock. Conversely, if the Corporation’s market capitalization falls below the minimum necessary to be included in the indexes at any future reconstitution date, the opposite could occur. Economic Conditions Risk. The recent deterioration of both national and local economic conditions poses significant risks to both the Corporation’s business and the banking industry as a whole. Specific risks include unstable interest rates, price competition for deposits due to liquidity concerns, declining real estate values, increasing unemployment, and volatile equity markets. Operating expense increases in 2009 that were directly related to the deterioration in economic conditions include a $1.6 million increase in FDIC insurance expense resulting from failures in the industry and a $1.0 million increase in pension expense resulting from the poor performance of the equity markets and a decline in interest rates in 20 08. Management believes that further increases in FDIC insurance expense are likely. Defined benefit pension expense will decrease by $675,000 in 2010 due to improved equity market performance in 2009. Technology Risk. Communications and information systems are essential to the conduct of our business, as we use such systems to manage customer relationships, deposits, loans, general ledger accounts and financial reporting. While we have established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the impact of systems failures, interruptions, and security breaches, there can be no assurance that such events will not occur or that they will be adequately addressed if they do. In addition, any compromise of our information security systems could deter customers from using our web site and our online b anking service, both of which involve the transmission of confidential information. Although we rely on commonly used security and processing systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to ensure the secure transmission and processing of data, these precautions may not protect our systems from all compromises or breaches of security. 7 In addition, we outsource certain of our data processing to certain third-party providers. If our third-party providers encounter difficulties, or if we have difficulty in communicating with them, our ability to adequately process and account for customer transactions could be affected, and our business operations could be adversely impacted. Threats to information security also exist in the processing of customer information through various other vendors and their personnel. The occurrence of any systems failure, interruption, or breach of security could damage our reputation and result in a loss of customers and business, could subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or could expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The delivery of financial products and services has become increasingly technology-driven. Our ability to meet the needs of our customers competitively, and in a cost-efficient manner, is dependent on our ability to keep pace with technological advances and to invest in new technology as it becomes available. The ability to keep pace with technological change is important, and failure to do so could have a material adverse impact on our business and therefore our financial condition and results of operations. The Bank has addressed technology risks through the use of logon and user access controls, transaction limits, firewalls, antivirus software, intrusion protection monitoring and third party vulnerability scans. Systems failure or interruption has been addressed by adopting a disaster recovery and contingency plan. In addition, for all third-party providers of data processing services, the Bank obtains and reviews audit reports prepared by independent registered public accounting firms regarding their financial condition and the effectiveness of their internal controls. Regulatory and Legislative Risk. The Corporation and the Bank (collectively referred to as the “Corporation”) are subject to extensive federal and state laws and regulations governing banks, bank holding companies and public companies. The Corporation’s primary regulators include the Federal Reserve Board, the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Securities and Exchange Commission (collectively referred to as the “Regulators”). The Comptroller of the Currency regularly examines the Bank for safety and soundness and compliance with banking laws and regulations. Changes in laws and regulations affecting the Corporation, or the degree of the Corpora tion’s compliance with such laws and regulations as judged by the Regulators, could have a significant impact on the Corporation’s operations and its financial results. The Corporation controls the risk of noncompliance with laws and regulations by having Board approved compliance policies, hiring and retaining employees with the experience and skills necessary to properly address compliance on an ongoing basis, and consulting, when necessary with legal counsel on compliance matters. Additional information regarding regulatory and legislative risk can be found in the Corporation’s 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders under the caption “Legislation and Regulatory Matters” contained in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, which has been incorporated by reference into Item 7 of this Form 10-K. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 