RISK FACTORS Investors should carefully consider the risks described below and all other information in this Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that it currently deems immaterial may also impair the Company’s business and operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of the Company’s common stock could decline and investors may lose all or part of the money they paid to buy the Company’s common stock. The Company Is Highly Dependent Upon The RF Connector and Cable Assembly and Cables Unlimited Segments, And Any Major Decline In Those Divisions’ Operations Would Negatively Affect The Company As A Whole. Of the Company’s three operating segments, the RF Connector and Cable Assembly segment and the Cables Unlimited segment collectively accounted for approximately 92% and 91% of the Company’s total sales for the fiscal years ended October 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The Company expects that the RF Connector and Cable Assembly segment and Cables Unlimited segment will continue to generate the largest percentage of the Company’s revenues for the near future. Accordingly, because these two segments represent such a large portion of the Company’s revenues and profits, an adverse change in the operations of either of these two segments could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. Factors that could adversely affect the RF Connector and Cable Assembly and the Cables Unlimited segments are described below. A Significant Portion of the Increase in the Company’s Net Sales and Net Income is Due to the Sale of a Single Product, Which Sales May Not Continue Over the Longer Term. Net sales for the year ended October 31, 2013 increased $8.9 million from the comparable prior year period. Of this increase, $8.2 million is attributable to the sale of a single line of custom cables manufactured by the Company’s Cables Unlimited subsidiary. This product, which was commercially released in April 2012, is a specialized solution for wireless carriers who are updating their networks to 4G technologies, such as WiMAX or LTE. The custom cable product is only used for retrofitting cellular telephone sites and, therefore, its sales are directly tied to the number of cell sites that are retrofitted by the wireless carriers and to the number of wireless carriers that choose this solution. Any decrease in the number of cell sites that are being retrofitted, or that are in need of updating/retrofitting, will directly reduce the sales of the product. The Company is unable to estimate how many cell sites will be updated, and how many wireless carriers will choose to use the Company’s custom cable solution for their updated cell sites. The Company believes that its cell tower cabling solution was the first such solution that was commercially released. However, other competing products have recently been introduced that compete with this product line and, as a result, the Company’s net sales of this product will decrease when carriers choose those competing products for their own cabling solutions. Furthermore, as the availability of these competing products increases, the price of the Company’s cell tower cable may have to decrease in order to remain competitive. Accordingly, the introduction of competing products has recently affected the Company’s revenues and profits that it currently derives from its custom cable product line. The Company has noticed a material decrease in orders for this cabling product since the end of the 2013 fiscal year due to a decrease in demand for the product and the need to retrofit same cell towers, and to a lesser extent to newly introduced competing products. The decrease in orders for this cell tower cabling solution is expected to materially affect the amount of future net sales that the Company generates from this product. In addition, no assurance can be given that wireless carriers will continue to use the Company’s custom cable solution over the longer term. 7 The Company Depends On Third-Party Contract Manufacturers For A Majority Of Its Connector Manufacturing Needs. If They Are Unable To Manufacture A Sufficient Quantity Of High-Quality Products On A Timely And Cost-Efficient Basis, The Company’s Net Revenue And Profitability Would Be Harmed And Its Reputation May Suffer. Substantially all of the Company’s RF Connector products are manufactured by third-party contract manufacturers. The Company relies on them to procure components for RF Connectors and in certain cases to design, assemble and test its products on a timely and cost-efficient basis. If the Company’s contract manufacturers are unable to complete design work on a timely basis, the Company will experience delays in product development and its ability to compete may be harmed. In addition, because some of the Company’s manufacturers have manufacturing facilities in Taiwan and China, their ability to provide the Company with adequate supplies of high-quality products on a timely and cost-efficient basis is subject to a number of additional risks and uncertainties, including political, social and economic instability and factors that could impact the shipment of supplies. If the Company’s manufacturers are unable to provide it with adequate supplies of high-quality products on a timely and cost-efficient basis, the Company’s operations would be disrupted and its net revenue and profitability would suffer. Moreover, if the Company’s third-party contract manufacturers cannot consistently produce high-quality products that are free of defects, the Company may experience a higher rate of product returns, which would also reduce its profitability and may harm the Company’s reputation and brand. The Company does not currently have any agreements with any of its contract manufacturers, and such manufacturers could stop manufacturing products for the Company at any time. Although the Company believes that it could locate alternate contract manufacturers if any of its manufacturers terminated their business, the Company’s operations could be impacted until alternate manufacturers are found. During fiscal 2013, approximately 72% of Cables Unlimited’s revenues was generated from sales of its new OptiFlex cable. Currently, all of the OptiFlex cables are bundled by a third-party supplier before the cables are finally completed by Cables Unlimited. Cables Unlimited relies on this third party manufacturer to procure components for and assemble the OptiFlex bundled cable on a timely and cost-efficient basis. If this supplier is unable to complete the procurement and assembly on a timely basis, Cables Unlimited will not be able to deliver its OptiFlex cable in time to meet customer deadlines, or at all. In addition, the fiber optic cable utilized in the bundled OptiFlex is obtained from a single source. If Cables Unlimited and its third party manufacturing partner are unable to obtain adequate supplies of fiber optic products on a timely and cost-efficient basis, Cables Unlimited’s sales of OptiFlex cables would be disrupted and its net revenue and profitability would be materially impacted. The Company’s Dependence On Third-Party Manufacturers Increases The Risk That It Will Not Have An Adequate Supply Of Products Or That Its Product Costs Will Be Higher Than Expected. The risks associated with the Company’s dependence upon third parties which develop and manufacture and assemble the Company’s products, include: · reduced control over delivery schedules and quality; · risks of inadequate manufacturing yields and excessive costs; · the potential lack of adequate capacity during periods of excess demand; and · potential increases in prices due to raw material and/or labor costs. These risks may lead to increased costs or delay product delivery, which would harm the Company’s profitability and customer relationships. If The Manufacturers of the Company’s Coaxial Connectors Or Other Products Discontinue The Manufacturing Processes Needed To Meet The Company’s Demands Or Fail To Upgrade Their Technologies, the Company May Face Production Delays. The Company’s coaxial connector and other product requirements typically represent a small portion of the total production of the third-party manufacturers. As a result, the Company is subject to the risk that a third party manufacturer will cease production of some of the Company’s products or fail to continue to advance the process design technologies on which the manufacturing of the Company’s products are based. Each of these events could increase the Company’s costs, harm its ability to deliver products on time, or develop new products. The Company’s Dependence Upon Independent Distributors To Sell And Market The Company’s Products Exposes The Company To The Risk That Such Distributors May Decrease Their Sales Of The Company’s Products Or Terminate Their Relationship With The Company. The Company’s sales efforts are primarily effected through independent distributors. Sales through independent distributors accounted for approximately 65% of the net sales of the Company for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2013. Although the Company has entered into written agreements with most of the distributors, the agreements are nonexclusive and generally may be terminated by either party upon 30-60 days’ written notice. The Company’s distributors are not within the control of the Company, are not obligated to purchase products from the Company, and may also sell other lines of products. There can be no assurance that these distributors will continue their current relationships with the Company or that they will not give higher priority to the sale of other products, which could include products of competitors. A reduction in sales efforts or discontinuance of sales of the Company’s products by its distributors would lead to reduced sales and could materially adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and business. Selling through indirect channels such as distributors may limit the Company’s contact with its ultimate customers and the Company’s ability to assure customer satisfaction. 8 A Portion Of The Company’s Sales Is Dependent Upon A Few Principal Customers, The Loss Of Whom Could Materially Negatively Affect The Company’s Total Sales. One customer accounted for approximately 50% of the total sales of the Company for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2013. Although this customer has been an on-going major customer of the Company for at least the past 10 years and the Company has entered into a written distributor agreement with this customer, this customer does not have any minimum purchase obligations and could stop buying the Company’s products at any time. A reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from this customer or the loss of this customer could significantly reduce the Company’s revenues and profits. The Company cannot provide assurance that this customer or any of its current customers will continue to place orders, that orders by existing customers will continue at current or historical levels or that the Company will be able to obtain orders from new customers. Difficult Conditions In The Global Economy In General Have Adversely Affected the Company’s Business And Results Of Operations And It Is Uncertain If These Conditions Will Improve In The Near Future, And They May Worsen. A prolonged economic downturn, both in the U.S. and worldwide, could lead to lower sales or reduced sales growth, reduced prices, lower gross margins, and increased bad debt risks, all of which could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Slowing economic activity, particularly in the telecommunication and data communication and wireless communications industries that represent the Company’s largest target market, may adversely impact the demand for the Company’s products. If the current economic condition continues or deteriorates, the Company’s results could be adversely affected in the future. There could be a number of other adverse follow-on effects from the credit crisis on the Company’s business, including insolvency of certain key distributors, key suppliers, contract manufacturers and customers. Because The Markets In Which The Company Competes Are Highly Competitive, A Failure To Effectively Compete Could Result In An Immediate And Substantial Loss Of Market Share. The markets in which the Company operates are highly competitive and the Company expects that competition will increase in these markets. In particular, the connector and communications markets in which the Company’s products are sold are intensely competitive. A failure to effectively compete in this market could result in an immediate and substantial loss of revenues and market share. Because most of the Company’s sales are derived from products that are not proprietary or that can be used to distinguish the Company from its competitors, the Company’s ability to compete successfully in these markets depends on a number of factors, including: · product quality; · reliability; · customer support; · time-to-market; · price; · market acceptance of competitors’ products; and · general economic conditions. The Company’s revenues may suffer if the Company is not able to effectively satisfy its customers in each of the foregoing ways. In addition, the Company’s competitors or customers may offer enhancements to its existing products or offer new products based on new technologies, industry standards or customer requirements that have the potential to replace or provide lower-cost or higher performance alternatives to the Company’s products. The introduction of enhancements or new products by the Company’s competitors could render its existing and future products obsolete or unmarketable. Many of the Company’s competitors have significantly greater financial and other resources. In certain circumstances, the Company’s customers or potential customers have internal manufacturing capabilities with which the Company may compete. If The Industries Into Which The Company Sells Its Products Experience Recession Or Other Cyclical Effects Impacting The Budgets Of Its Customers, The Company’s Operating Results Could Be Negatively Impacted. The primary customers for the Company’s connector and cable products are in the wireless communications industries. Any significant downturn in the Company’s customers’ markets, in particular, or in general economic conditions which result in the cut back of budgets would likely result in a reduction in demand for the Company’s products and services and could harm the Company’s business. Historically, the communications industry has been cyclical, affected by both economic conditions and industry-specific cycles. Depressed general economic conditions and cyclical downturns in the communications industry have each had an adverse effect on sales of communications equipment, OEMs and their suppliers, including the Company. No assurance can be given that the wireless communications industry will not experience a material downturn in the near future. Any cyclical downturn in the communications industry could have a material adverse effect on the Company. 9 Because The Company Sells Its Products To Foreign Customers, The Company Is Exposed To All Of The Risks Associated With International Sales, Including Foreign Currency Exposure. Sales to customers located outside the United States, either directly or through U.S. and foreign distributors, accounted for approximately 4% and 6% of the net sales of the Company during the years ended October 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. International revenues are subject to a number of risks, including: · longer accounts receivable payment cycles; · difficulty in enforcing agreements and in collecting accounts receivable; · tariffs and other restrictions on foreign trade; · economic and political instability; and the · burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws. The Company’s foreign sales are also affected by general economic conditions in its international markets. A prolonged economic downturn in its foreign markets could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. There can be no assurance that the factors described above will not have an adverse material effect on the Company’s future international revenues and, consequently, on the financial condition, results of operations and business of the Company. Since sales made to foreign customers or foreign distributors have historically been in U.S. dollars, the Company has not been exposed to the risks of foreign currency fluctuations. However, if the Company in the future is required to accept sales denominated in the currencies of the countries where sales are made, the Company will thereafter also be exposed to currency fluctuation risks. The Loss Of Key Personnel Could Adversely Affect The Company’s Operations. The Company’s success will depend to a significant extent on the continued service of the Company’s senior executives including Howard Hill, its Chief Executive Officer, and certain other key employees, including certain technical and marketing personnel. The Company’s employment agreement with Mr. Hill expired by its terms on December 31, 2013. The loss of the services of Mr. Hill or one or more of the Company’s key executives or employees (including if one or more of the Company’s officers or employees decided to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with the Company) could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, operating results, and financial condition. The Company May Make Future Acquisitions, Which Will Involve Numerous Risks. Since August 2004, the Company has purchased the operations of four smaller businesses (it purchased Aviel Electronics in Las Vegas, Nevada, in August 2004, Oddcables in San Diego, California, in September 2005, RadioMobile, Inc. in San Diego, California, in September 2007 (subsequently sold in October 2013), and Cables Unlimited in Long Island, New York, in June 2011). The Company regularly considers potential acquisitions of other companies that could expand the Company’s product line or customer base and may in the future make additional acquisitions. Accordingly, the Company will be subject to numerous risks associated with the acquisition of additional companies, including: · diversion of management’s attention; · the effect on the Company’s financial statements of the amortization of acquired intangible assets; · the cost associated with acquisitions and the integration of acquired operations; · the Company may not be able to secure capital to finance future acquisitions to the extent additional debt or equity is needed; and · assumption of unknown liabilities, or other unanticipated events or circumstances. Any of these risks could materially harm the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that any business that the Company acquires will achieve anticipated revenues or operating results. 10 The Company Has No Patent Rights In The Technology Employed In Its Products, Which May Limit the Company’s Ability To Compete. The Company does not hold any United States or foreign patents and does not have any patents pending. The Company does not seek to protect its rights in the technology that it develops or that the Company’s third-party contract manufacturers develop by means of the patent laws, although it does protect some aspects of its proprietary products and technologies by means of copyright and trade secret laws. Accordingly, competitors can and do sell many of the same products as the Company, and the Company cannot prevent or restrict such competition. Volatility of Trading Prices Of The Company’s Stock Could Result In A Loss On An Investment In The Company’s Stock. The market price of the Company’s common stock has varied greatly, and the volume of the Company’s common stock traded has fluctuated greatly as well. These fluctuations often occur independently of the Company’s performance or any announcements by the Company. Factors that may result in such fluctuations include: · any shortfall in revenues or net income from revenues or net income expected by securities analysts · fluctuations in the Company’s financial results or the results of other connector and communications-related companies, including those of the Company’s direct competitors · changes in analysts’ estimates of the Company’s financial performance, the financial performance of the Company’s competitors, or the financial performance of connector and communications-related public companies in general · general conditions in the connector and communications industries · changes in the Company’s revenue growth rates or the growth rates of the Company’s competitors · sales of large blocks of the Company’s common stock · conditions in the financial markets in general In addition, the stock market may from time to time experience extreme price and volume fluctuations, which may be unrelated to the operating performance of any specific company. Accordingly, the market prices of the Company’s common stock may be expected to experience significant fluctuations in the future. A Cyber Incident Could Result In Information Theft, Data Corruption, Operational Disruption, And/Or Financial Loss. Businesses have become increasingly dependent on digital technologies to conduct day-to-day operations. At the same time, cyber incidents, including deliberate attacks or unintentional events, have increased. A cyber attack could include gaining unauthorized access to digital systems for purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive information, corrupting data, or causing operational disruption or result in denial of service on websites. We depend on digital technology, including information systems and related infrastructure, to process and record financial and operating data, and communicate with our employees and business partners. Our technologies, systems, networks, and those of our business partners may become the target of cyber attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of proprietary and other information, or other disruption of our business operations. Although to date we have not experienced any losses relating to cyber attacks, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 