ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Corporation is exposed to a variety of risks, some of which are inherent in the banking business. The more significant of these are addressed by the Corporation’s written policies and procedures, the adherence to which is monitored on an ongoing basis. The risks faced by the Corporation include, among others, credit risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk, market risk for the Corporation’s common stock, changes in and compliance with laws and regulations, and legislative risk. Credit Risk. For both investment securities and loans, there is always the risk that the Corporation will be unable to collect all amounts due according to the contractual terms. Credit risk in the Corporation’s securities portfolio has been addressed by adopting a board approved investment policy that, among other things, limits terms and types of holdings, and specifies minimum required ratings. Allowable investments include direct obligations of the U.S. government and its agencies, highly rated obligations of states and political subdivisions, and highly rated corporate obligations. At the time of purchase, bonds of states and political subdivisions must generally be rated A or better, notes of states and political subdivisions must generally be rated MIG-2 (or equivalent) or better, commercial paper must be rated A-1 or P-1, and corporate bonds must be rated A or better. In addition, management periodically reviews issuer credit ratings for all securities in the Corporation’s portfolio other than those issued by the U.S. government or its agencies. Any significant deterioration in the creditworthiness of an issuer will be analyzed and action will be taken if deemed appropriate. Credit risk in the Corporation’s loan portfolio has been addressed by adopting board approved commercial, consumer, and mortgage loan policies and maintaining a loan review function. The loan policies contain what the Corporation believes to be appropriate underwriting guidelines which include, among other things, specific loan approval requirements, maximum loan terms, loan to appraised value limits for mortgage loans, and environmental study requirements. The credit risk within the Corporation’s loan portfolio primarily stems from factors such as borrower size, geographic concentration, real estate values and environmental contamination. The Corporation’s commercial loans, including those secured by mortgages, are primarily made to small and medium-sized businesses. Such loans sometimes involve a higher degree of risk than those to larger companies because such businesses may have shorter operating histories and higher debt-to-equity ratios than larger companies and may lack sophistication in internal record keeping and financial and operational controls. In addition, most of the Corporation’s loans are made to businesses and consumers on Long Island and in New York City, and a large percentage of these loans are mortgage loans secured by properties located in those areas. Local economic conditions have been good and real estate values have grown considerably over a number of years. However, in 2007 residential real estate values on Long Island began to decline. The decline could continue and economic conditions could deteriorate. If this occurs, and the decline and deterioration are substantial, some of the Bank’s borrowers may be unable to make the required contractual payments on their loans, and the Corporation may be unable to realize the full carrying value of mortgage loans through foreclosure. Environmental impairment of properties securing mortgage loans is also a risk. However, at the present time, the Corporation is not aware of any existing loans in the portfolio where there is environmental pollution originating on or near the mortgaged properties that would materially affect the value of the portfolio. Interest Rate Risk. The Corporation’s results of operations are subject to risk resulting from interest rate fluctuations generally and having assets and liabilities that have different maturity, repricing, and prepayment/withdrawal characteristics. The Corporation defines interest rate risk as the risk that the Corporation’s earnings and/or net portfolio value (present value of expected future cash flows from assets less the present value of expected future cash flows from liabilities) will change when interest rates change. The Corporation has addressed interest rate risk by adopting a board approved interest rate risk policy which sets forth quantitative risk limits and calls for monitoring and controlling interest rate risk through a variety of techniques including the use of interest rate sensitivity models and traditional interest rate sensitivity gap analysis. In addition, management has retained an outside consultant with expertise in asset liability management. Because the Corporation’s loans and investment securities generally reprice slower than its interest-bearing liabilities, an immediate increase in interest rates uniformly across the yield curve should initially have a negative effect on net interest income. However, if the Corporation does not increase the rates paid on its deposit accounts as quickly or in the same amount as increases in market interest rates and/or owns interest rate caps that are in-the-money at the time of the interest rate increase or become in-the-money as a result of the increase, the magnitude of the negative impact will decline and the impact could even be positive. Over a longer period of time, and assuming that interest rates remain stable after the initial rate increase and the Corporation purchases securities and originates loans at yields higher than those maturing and reprices loans at higher yields, the impact of an increase in interest rates should be positive. This occurs primarily because with the passage of time more loans and investment securities will reprice at the higher rates and there will be no offsetting increase in interest expense for those loans and investment securities funded by noninterest-bearing checking deposits and capital. Conversely, a decrease in interest rates uniformly across the yield curve should initially have a positive impact on the Corporation’s net interest income. Furthermore, if the Corporation owns interest rate floors that are in-the-money at the time of the interest rate decrease or become in-the-money as a result of the decrease, the magnitude of the positive impact should increase. However, if the Corporation does not or cannot decrease the rates paid on its deposit accounts as quickly or in the same amount as decreases in market interest rates, regardless of whether or not it owns interest rate floors, the magnitude of the positive impact will decline and could even be negative. 6 If interest rates decline, or have declined, and are sustained at the lower levels and, as a result, the Corporation purchases securities at lower yields and loans are originated or repriced at lower yields, the impact on net interest income should be negative because a significant portion of the Corporation’s average interest-earning assets are funded by noninterest-bearing checking deposits and capital. Liquidity Risk. Liquidity risk is the risk that the Corporation will not have sufficient funds to accommodate loan growth and meet deposit outflows. The Corporation has addressed liquidity risk by adopting a board approved liquidity policy that sets forth quantitative risk limits and includes, among other things, a liquidity contingency plan. The Corporation’s market area is currently characterized by aggressive deposit pricing and extensive branching by other financial institutions. Either could cause deposit outflows, and such outflows could be significant. However, the Corporation believes that its present sources of liquidity, the details of which follow, are more than sufficient to meet loan demand, accommodate deposit outflows, and provide sufficient contingency liquidity. The Corporation’s primary internal sources of liquidity are its federal funds sold position and overnight investments, unencumbered investment securities designated as available-for-sale, and maturities and monthly payments on its investment securities and loan portfolios. At December 31, 2007, the Corporation had $21,768,000 in federal funds sold and other overnight investments and approximately $141 million in unencumbered available-for-sale securities. The Corporation is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York (“FHLB”) and has repurchase agreements in place with a number of brokerage firms and commercial banks. In addition to customer deposits, the Corporation’s primary external sources of liquidity are secured borrowings from the FHLB under a variety of borrowing arrangements and brokerage firms under repurchase agreements. However, neither the Corporation’s FHLB membership nor repurchase agreements represent legal commitments on the part of the FHLB or repurchase agreement counterparties to extend credit to the Corporation. The amount that the Corporation can potentially borrow from the FHLB and brokerage firms is dependent on, among other things, the amount of unencumbered eligible securities that the Corporation can use as collateral. At December 31, 2007, the Corporation had unencumbered eligible securities collateral of approximately $142 million. The Corporation can also purchase overnight federal funds on an unsecured basis under lines with two other commercial banks. These lines in the aggregate amount of $25 million do not represent legal commitments to extend credit on the part of the other banks. As a backup to borrowing from the FHLB, brokerage firms and other commercial banks, the Corporation is eligible to borrow on a secured basis at the Federal Reserve Bank (“FRB”) discount window under the primary credit program. Primary credit, which is normally extended on a very short-term basis, typically overnight, at a rate 50 basis points above the federal funds target rate, is viewed by the FRB as a backup source of short-term funds for sound depository institutions like the Bank. The amount that the Bank can borrow under the primary credit program depends on, among other things, the amount of available eligible collateral. Market Risk for the Corporation’s Common Stock. Trading volume in the Corporation’s common stock is limited. The publicly reported trading volume in 2007 and 2006, adjusted for the 2-for-1 stock split paid April 16, 2007, was 615,795 and 686,546 shares, respectively. Open market purchases by the Corporation under its share repurchase program accounted for 12.2% of the trading volume in 2007 and 7.8% in 2006. A reduction or discontinuance of its share repurchase program could adversely impact market liquidity for its common stock, the price of its common stock, or both. In addition, the Corporation’s common stock is included in the Russell Microcap Index. The average market capitalization of companies in the Russell Microcap Index is $300.9 million, the median market capitalization is $260.1 million, the capitalization of the largest company in the index is $711.4 million, and the capitalization of the smallest company in the index is $78.6 million. The Corporation’s market capitalization as of December 31, 2007 was approximately $138 million. The Corporation believes that inclusion in the Russell Microcap Index positively impacts the price, trading volume and liquidity of its common stock. Conversely, if the Corporation’s market capitalization falls below the minimum necessary to be included in the Russell Microcap Index at any future annual reconstitution date, the Corporation believes that this could adversely affect the price, volume and liquidity of its common stock. Laws and Regulation. The Corporation and the Bank (collectively referred to as the “Corporation”) are subject to extensive federal and state laws and regulations governing banks, bank holding companies and public companies. The Corporation’s primary regulators include the Federal Reserve Board, the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Securities and Exchange Commission (collectively referred to as the “Regulators”). The Comptroller of the Currency regularly examines the Bank for safety and soundness and compliance with banking laws and regulations. Changes in laws and regulations affecting the Corporation, or the degree of the Corporation’s compliance with such laws and regulations as judged by the Regulators, could have a significant impact on the Corporation’s operations and its financial results. The Corporation controls the risk of noncompliance with laws and regulations by having Board approved compliance policies, hiring and retaining employees with the experience and skills necessary to properly address compliance on an ongoing basis, and consulting, when necessary with legal counsel on compliance matters. Pending Legislation. Commercial checking deposits currently account for approximately 27% of the Corporation’s total deposits. Congress has been considering legislation that would allow corporate customers to cover checks by sweeping funds from interest- 7 bearing deposit accounts each business day and repeal the prohibition of the payment of interest on corporate checking deposits. Either could have a material adverse impact on the Corporation’s future results of operations. The Bank wholly-owns FNY Service Corp. (“FNY”), an investment company, and FNY owns all of the issued and outstanding common stock of The First of Long Island REIT, Inc (“REIT”), a real estate investment trust. Under current New York State (“NYS”) tax law, the REIT files a separate NYS tax return and, in conformity with federal tax treatment, is entitled to a dividends paid deduction for the dividends that it pays to FNY. Furthermore, FNY is entitled to a 100% dividends received deduction for any dividends that it receives from the REIT. The favorable tax treatment of dividends paid by the REIT and received by FNY should save the Corporation approximately $480,000 in 2008. The tax savings are impacted by, among other things, the current size and asset composition of the REIT and current interest rates. The 2008-2009 New York State Executive Budget proposes certain changes with respect to the tax treatment of captive REITs. If enacted into law, these changes would cause the earnings of captive REITs to become fully taxable in New York State after three years and thereby eliminate the tax benefit that the Corporation receives from its REIT subsidiary. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 