ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Corporation is exposed to a variety of risks, some of which are inherent in the banking business. The more significant of these are addressed by the Corporation’s written policies and procedures. While management is responsible for identifying, assessing and managing risk, the Board of Directors is responsible for risk oversight. The Board fulfills its risk oversight responsibilities largely through its committees. The risks faced by the Corporation include, among others, credit risk, allowance for loan loss risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk, market risk for its common stock, economic conditions risk, operational risk, technology risk, key personnel risk, regulatory and legislative risk, income tax risk, external events risk and competitive risk. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the Corporation, or that the Corporation currently deems to be immaterial, could also have a material impact on the Corporation’s business, financial condition, or results of operations. Credit Risk For both investment securities and loans, there is always the risk that the Bank will be unable to collect all amounts due according to the contractual terms. Credit risk in the Bank’s securities portfolio has been addressed by adopting a board committee approved investment policy that, among other things, limits terms and types of holdings, and specifies minimum required credit ratings. Allowable investments include direct obligations of the U.S. government and its agencies, highly rated obligations of states and political subdivisions, and highly rated corporate obligations. At the time of purchase, bonds of states and political subdivisions must generally be rated AA or better, notes of states and political subdivisions must generally be rated MIG-1 (or equivalent), commercial paper must be rated A-1 or P-1, and corporate bonds must be rated AA or better. In addition, management periodically reviews the creditworthiness of all securities in the Bank’s portfolio other than those issued by the U.S. government or its agencies. Any significant deterioration in the creditworthiness of an issuer will be analyzed and action taken if deemed appropriate. Credit risk in the Bank’s loan portfolio has been addressed by adopting board committee approved commercial, consumer and mortgage loan policies and by maintaining independent loan review and appraisal review functions and an independent credit department. The loan policies contain what the Corporation believes to be prudent underwriting guidelines, which include, among other things, specific loan approval requirements, maximum loan terms, loan to appraised value and debt service coverage limits for mortgage loans, credit score minimums and environmental study requirements. The credit risk within the Bank’s loan portfolio primarily stems from factors such as borrower size, geographic concentration, industry concentration, real estate values, local and national general economic conditions and environmental contamination. The Bank’s commercial loans, including those secured by mortgages, are primarily made to small and medium-sized businesses. Such loans sometimes involve a higher degree of risk than those to larger companies because such businesses may have shorter operating histories, higher debt-to-equity ratios and may lack sophistication in internal record keeping and financial and operational controls. In addition, most of the Bank’s loans are made to businesses and consumers on Long Island and in the boroughs of New York City, and a large percentage of these loans are mortgage loans secured by properties located in those areas. At December 31, 2013, multifamily loans amounted to approximately $469 million and comprised approximately 66% of the Bank’s total commercial mortgage portfolio and approximately 34% of the Bank’s total loans secured by real estate. The primary source of repayment for multifamily loans is cash flows from the underlying properties, a substantial portion of which are rent stabilized or rent controlled. Such cash flows are dependent on the strength of the local economy. Although economic conditions improved somewhat during 2013, general economic conditions have been unfavorable as characterized by high levels of unemployment and underemployment, suppressed commercial and residential real estate values, and elevated commercial real estate vacancies. These conditions have caused some of the Bank’s borrowers to be unable to make the required contractual payments on their loans and could cause the Bank to be unable to realize the full carrying value of such loans through foreclosure or other collection efforts. Environmental impairment of properties securing mortgage loans is also a risk. However, at the present time, the Bank is not aware of any existing loans in the portfolio where there is environmental pollution originating on or near the mortgaged properties that would materially affect the value of the portfolio. 8 Table of Contents Allowance for Loan Loss Risk The Bank maintains an allowance for loan losses in an amount believed to be adequate to absorb probable incurred losses in its loan portfolio. The maintenance of the allowance for loan losses is governed by a board committee approved allowance for loan and lease losses policy. In arriving at the allowance for loan losses, an impairment analysis is performed on each loan where it is probable that the borrower will not be able to make all required principal and interest payments according to contractual terms. In addition, losses for all other loans in the Bank’s portfolio are determined on a pooled basis taking into account, among other things, historical loss experience, delinquencies, economic conditions, trends in nature and volume of loans, concentrations of credit, changes in lending policies and procedures, experience, ability and depth of lending staff, changes in quality of the loan review function, environmental risks and loan risk ratings. Because estimating the allowance for loan losses is highly subjective in nature and involves a variety of estimates and assumptions that are inherently uncertain, there is the risk that management’s estimate may not accurately capture probable incurred losses in the loan portfolio. The Bank’s allowance at any point in time may need to be adjusted upward based on, among other things, additional information that comes to light after the estimate is made, changes in circumstances, or a recommendation by bank regulators based on their review of the Bank’s loan portfolio. Such an adjustment could result in the need for a significant increase in the Bank’s provision for loan losses and have a material adverse impact on the Bank’s financial condition and results of operations. Interest Rate Risk The Bank’s results of operations are subject to risk resulting from interest rate fluctuations generally and having assets and liabilities that have different maturity, repricing and prepayment/withdrawal characteristics. The Bank defines interest rate risk as the risk that the Bank's net interest income and/or economic value of equity (“EVE”) will change when interest rates change. The Bank has addressed interest rate risk by adopting a board committee approved interest rate risk policy which sets forth quantitative risk limits and calls for monitoring and controlling interest rate risk through a variety of techniques including the use of interest rate sensitivity models and traditional repricing gap analysis. Management utilizes a consultant with expertise in bank asset liability management to aid them in these efforts. A sustained period of low interest rates could adversely affect the Bank’s earnings. When interest rates are relatively low, as they currently are, borrowers tend to refinance higher rate loans at lower rates and prepayments on mortgages and mortgage securities are elevated. Under those circumstances, the Bank may not be able to reinvest the resulting cash flows in new interest-earning assets with rates as high as those on the prepaid loans or investment securities. In addition, subject to the floors contained in many of the Bank’s loan agreements, the Bank’s loans at variable interest rates adjust to lower rates at their reset dates. The positive impact of lower interest rates on the Bank’s cost of funds is currently constrained because many of the Bank’s deposit products are at historically low rates with little if any room for further reductions, and because the Bank funds a significant portion of its average interest-earning assets with noninterest bearing checking deposits and capital. In a period of rising interest rates, the Bank’s loans and investment securities could reprice slower than its interest-bearing liabilities, which could initially have a negative effect on net interest income. Over a longer period of time, the effect on the Bank’s earnings should be positive primarily because with the passage of time more loans and investment securities will reprice at the higher rates and there will be no offsetting increase in interest expense for those interest-earning assets funded by noninterest-bearing checking deposits and capital. Liquidity Risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Bank will not have sufficient funds to accommodate loan growth, meet deposit outflows or make contractual payments on borrowing arrangements. The Bank has addressed liquidity risk by adopting a board committee approved Liquidity Policy and Liquidity Contingency Plan that set forth quantitative risk limits and a protocol for responding to liquidity stress conditions should they arise. The Bank encounters significant competition in its market area from branches of larger banks, various community banks, credit unions and other financial services organizations. This, in addition to renewed consumer confidence in the equity markets, could cause deposit outflows, and such outflows could be significant. The Bank has both internal and external sources of liquidity that can be used to fund loan growth and accommodate deposit outflows. The Bank’s primary internal sources of liquidity are its overnight investments, investment securities designated as available-for-sale, maturities and monthly payments on its investment securities and loan portfolios and operations. The Bank is a member of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (“FRB”) and the FHLB of New York, has repurchase agreements in place with a number of brokerage firms and commercial banks and has federal funds lines with several commercial banks. In addition to customer deposits, the Bank’s primary external sources of liquidity are secured borrowings from the FRB, FHLB of New York and repurchase agreement counterparties. In addition, the Bank can purchase overnight federal funds under its existing lines. However, the Bank’s FRB membership, FHLB of New York membership, repurchase agreements and federal funds lines do not represent legal commitments to extend credit to the Bank. The amount that the Bank can potentially borrow is currently dependent on, among other things, the amount of unencumbered eligible securities and loans that the Bank can use as collateral and the collateral margins required by the lenders. Market Risk for the Corporation’s Common Stock The Corporation’s common stock is included in the Russell 3000 and Russell 2000 Indexes, which are reconstituted annually. Upon reconstitution in May 2013, the average market capitalization of companies in the Russell 2000 Index was $1.4 billion, the median market capitalization was $594 million, the capitalization of the largest company in the index was $3.3 billion and the capitalization of the smallest company in the index was $129 million. The Corporation’s market capitalization on December 31, 2013 was approximately $392 million. The Corporation believes that inclusion in the Russell indexes has positively impacted the price, trading volume and liquidity of its common stock. Conversely, if the Corporation’s market capitalization falls below the minimum necessary to be included in the indexes at any future reconstitution date, the opposite could occur. 9 Table of Contents Economic Conditions Risk Although national and local economic conditions improved somewhat in 2013, they still remain unfavorable. This poses significant risks to both the Corporation’s business and the banking industry as a whole. Specific risks include reduced loan demand from quality borrowers; increased competition for loans; increased loan loss provisions resulting from deterioration in loan quality caused by, among other things, depressed real estate values and high levels of unemployment and underemployment; reduced net interest income and net interest margin caused by a sustained period of low interest rates; interest rate volatility; price competition for deposits due to liquidity concerns or otherwise; and volatile equity markets. In addition to the significant risks posed by unfavorable economic conditions, the Corporation could experience deposit outflows as national and local economic conditions improve and investors pursue alternative investment opportunities. Operational Risk The Corporation relies on its system of internal controls and the internal controls of its third-party service providers (“TPSPs”) to ensure that transactions are captured, recorded, processed and reported properly; confidential customer information is safeguarded; and fraud by employees and persons outside the Corporation is detected and prevented. The Corporation’s internal controls and/or those of its TPSPs may prove to be ineffective or employees of the Corporation and/or its TPSPs may fail to comply with or override the controls, either of which could result in significant financial loss to the Corporation, adverse action by bank regulatory authorities or the SEC, and damage to the Corporation’s reputation. Technology Risk The delivery of financial products and services has become increasingly technology-driven. The Bank’s ability to meet the needs of its customers competitively, and in a cost-efficient manner, is dependent on its ability to keep pace with technological advances and to invest in new technology as it becomes available. The ability to keep pace with technological change is important, and failure to do so could have a material adverse impact on the Corporation’s business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the Bank outsources certain of its data processing to TPSPs. If TPSPs encounter difficulties, or if the Bank has difficulty communicating with them, the Bank’s ability to adequately process and account for customer transactions could be affected, and the Bank’s business operations could be adversely impacted. Threats to information security also exist in the processing of customer information through TPSPs. The Bank’s website and online banking products have been the target of cyber attacks in the past. While the Bank and its TPSPs have successfully blocked attempts to infiltrate our systems, there is no guarantee that such attempts will be unsuccessful in the future. The Bank has established board committee approved policies to prevent or limit the impact of systems failures, interruptions and security breaches and relies on commonly used security and processing systems to provide the security and authentication necessary for the processing of data. The Bank makes use of logon and user access controls, transaction limits, firewalls, antivirus software, intrusion protection monitoring and vulnerability scans. Systems failures or interruptions are addressed in a disaster recovery and contingency plan. In addition, for TPSPs of data processing and other significant services, the Bank obtains and reviews audit reports prepared by independent registered public accounting firms regarding their financial condition and the effectiveness of their internal controls. These precautions may not protect our systems from all compromises or breaches of security and there can be no assurance that such events will not occur or that they will be adequately addressed if they do. The Bank carries a cyber liability insurance policy to mitigate the amount of any financial loss. However, the occurrence of any systems failure, interruption or breach of security could damage the Bank’s reputation and result in a loss of customers and business, could subject the Bank to additional regulatory scrutiny, or could expose the Bank to civil litigation and possible financial liability beyond any insurance coverage. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. Key Personnel Risk The Corporation’s future success depends in part on the continued service of its executive officers and other key members of management and its staff, as well as its ability to continue to attract, motivate and retain additional highly qualified employees. The loss of services of key personnel could have an adverse effect on the Bank’s business, operating results and financial condition because their skills, knowledge of the Bank’s market and years of industry experience may be difficult to replace. Regulatory and Legislative Risk The Corporation and the Bank are subject to regulation, supervision and examination by, among others, the Federal Reserve Board, OCC and FDIC, which also insures the Bank’s deposits. Regulation and supervision govern the activities in which a bank and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of depositors. Regulatory requirements affect virtually all aspects of the Corporation’s and the Bank’s business, including investment practices, lending practices, deposit offerings and capital levels. The regulators have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including imposing restrictions on bank operations, imposing deposit insurance premiums and other assessments, setting required levels for the allowance for loan losses and capital, and imposing restrictions on the ability to pay cash dividends. Changes in laws, regulations and supervisory guidance, or the Corporation’s and the Bank’s compliance with these laws and regulations as judged by the regulators, could have a significant negative impact on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation manages the risk of noncompliance with laws and regulations by having board committee approved compliance policies, hiring and retaining employees with the experience and skills necessary to address compliance on an ongoing basis, and consulting, when necessary with legal counsel and other outside experts on compliance matters. See the discussion of regulatory capital rulemakings included in the “Regulatory Rulemakings” section of Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K. 10 Table of Contents Income Tax Risk The Corporation is subject to income tax under Federal, New York State and New York City laws and regulations. Changes in such laws and regulations could increase the Corporation’s tax burden and such increase could have a material negative impact on its results of operations. The governor of the State of New York State recently announced his budget proposal for the 2014-2015 fiscal year. The governor’s proposal includes, among other things: (1) a merger of the current bank tax provisions under Article 32 of New York State tax law into the corporate tax provisions under Article 9A; (2) a reduction in the corporate income tax rate from 7.1% to 6.5%; (3) a reduction in income subject to tax resulting from small business and residential mortgage lending activities; (4) an increase in the MTA surcharge from 17% to 24.5% of the corporate tax; and (5) the elimination of captive REITs for institutions that have less than $8 billion in total assets. Pursuant to the governor’s proposal, these changes would be effective for tax years beginning on or after January 1, 2015. The Corporation currently avails itself of certain benefits under New York State tax law including the benefit associated with having a captive REIT. If the tax reform elements contained in the governor’s budget proposal become law, the Corporation would lose the tax benefit associated with its REIT and could lose other tax benefits as well. Other provisions in the governor’s proposal would benefit the Bank such as the reduction in the corporate tax rate from 7.1% to 6.5% and the aforementioned benefit that would be derived from small business and residential mortgage lending activities. The Corporation is continuing to analyze the governor’s budget proposal and has not yet determined the full impact that the proposal, if enacted into law, could have on its tax burden. External Events Risk – Weather and Terrorism Weather-related events have adversely impacted our market area, especially areas located near coastal waters and flood prone areas. Significant flooding and other storm-related damage may become more common in the future. Financial institutions have been, and continue to be, targets of terrorist threats aimed at compromising operating and communication systems, and the metropolitan New York area remains a central target for potential acts of terrorism. Weather-related and terrorist events could cause significant damage, impact the stability of our facilities and result in additional expenses, impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, reduce the value of collateral securing repayment of our loans, and result in the loss of revenue. While we have established and regularly test disaster recovery procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Competitive Risk Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market area, we compete with numerous commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokers, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have, and have greater name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business. In addition, large competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do. Competitive forces may limit our ability to increase our interest-earning assets. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market area. For additional information see “Item 1 – Business – Competition.” ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS – None. 