ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information contained in this report. Our business and our securities involve a high degree of risk. If we do not successfully commercialize our CodecSys technology, we may never achieve profitability, retire our convertible debt or be able to raise future capital. It is imperative that we successfully commercialize our CodecSys technology. We continue to develop this technology for a variety of applications. We have never been involved in a development project of the size and breadth that is involved with CodecSys and none of our management has ever been involved with a software development project. Management may lack the expertise and we may not have the financial resources needed for successful development of this technology. Furthermore, commercialization and future applications of the CodecSys technology are expected to require additional capital estimated to be approximately $2.0 million annually for the foreseeable future, although we have spent considerably more than that in past years. This estimate will increase or decrease depending on specific opportunities and available funding. If we are unsuccessful in our CodecSys development and commercialization efforts, it is highly doubtful we will achieve profitable operations, retire our existing convertible indebtedness or be able to raise additional funding in the future. 12 We may need additional capital. If additional capital is required but is not available, we may have to curtail or cease operations. If we are unable to generate net sales in excess of operating expenses, we will need to obtain additional financing to continue operations. We believe external funding may be difficult to obtain, particularly given the prevailing financial market conditions. If sufficient capital is not available to us, we will be required to pursue one or a combination of the following remedies: significantly reduce development, commercialization or other operating expenses; sell part or all of our assets; or terminate operations. The existing turbulence and illiquidity in the credit and financial markets are continuing challenges that have generally made potential funding sources more difficult to access, less reliable and more expensive. These market conditions have made the management of our liquidity significantly more challenging. A further deterioration in the credit and financial markets or a prolonged period without improvement could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital. We have sustained and may continue to sustain substantial losses. We have sustained operating losses in each of the last seven years. Through December 31, 2012, our accumulated deficit was $109,585,041. We continue to sustain operating losses on a quarterly and annual basis and may continue to do so. Our success depends on adoption of our CodecSys technology by OEMs and end-users. The success of our CodecSys technology depends on the adoption of this technology by original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, like IBM, Fujitsu and HP, as well as end-users. The OEM qualification and adoption process is complex, time-consuming and unpredictable. Furthermore, OEMs may elect to maintain their relationships with incumbent technology providers, even when presented with technology that may be superior to the incumbent technology. Significant delays in the development or OEM adoption of CodecSys will adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Our continued losses may impact our relationships with OEMs and customers. Our continued losses may impact our relationships with existing and potential OEMs and customers. OEMs may be reluctant to partner with us or present our technology in conjunction with their product offerings if they believe our financial condition is marginal or in jeopardy. OEMs and prospective customers may delay adoption of our CodecSys technology and other products if they believe we are not financially sound enough to support our technology or other product offerings. Adverse economic or other market conditions could reduce the purchase of our services by existing and prospective customers, which would harm our business. Our business is impacted from time to time by changes in general economic, business and international conditions and other similar factors. Adverse economic or other market conditions negatively affect the business spending of existing and prospective customers. In adverse market times, our network and other services may not be deemed critical for these customers. Therefore, our services are often viewed as discretionary and may be deferred or eliminated in times of limited business spending, thereby harming its business. The recent recession and market turmoil present considerable risks and challenges. These risks and challenges have reached unprecedented levels and have significantly diminished overall confidence in the national economy, upon which we are dependent. Such factors could have an adverse impact on our business and prospects in ways that are not predictable or that we may fail to anticipate. 13 Our systems of internal operational and financial controls may not be effective. We establish and maintain systems of internal operational and financial controls that provide us with critical information. These systems are not foolproof, and are subject to various inherent limitations, including cost, judgments used in decision-making, assumptions about the likelihood of future events, the soundness of our systems, the possibility of human error, and the risk of fraud. Moreover, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions and the risk that the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may deteriorate over time. Because of these limitations, any system of internal controls or procedures may not be successful in preventing all errors or fraud or in making all material information known in a timely manner to the appropriate levels of management. We have previously experienced significant deficiencies in our required disclosure controls and procedures regarding the updating of certain accounting pronouncements and the reporting of current information required to be filed with the SEC. We also experienced a significant deficiency and a material weakness in our required disclosure controls and procedures regarding its accounting entries and financial statements, which resulted in the restatement of one accounting period. Any future deficiency, weakness, malfunction or inadequacy related to internal operational or financial control systems or procedures could produce inaccurate and unreliable information that may harm our business. We may be unable to respond adequately to rapid changes in technology. The markets for private communication networks and video encoder systems are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions. The introduction of new technology and products and the emergence of new industry standards not only impacts our ability to compete, but could also render our products, services and CodecSys technology uncompetitive or obsolete. If we are unable to adequately respond to changes in technology and standards, we will not be able to serve its clients effectively. Moreover, the cost to modify our services, products or infrastructure in order to adapt to these changes could be substantial and we may not have the financial resources to fund these expenses. We face intense competition that could harm our business. The communications industry is extremely competitive. We compete with numerous competitors who are much larger than we are and have greater financial and other resources. In the satellite network and services segment, including digital signage, we compete with Convergent Media Systems, Globecast, IBM, Cisco, Hughes and others. Our competitors have established distribution channels and significant marketing and sales resources. Competition results in reduced operating margins for our business and may cause us to lose clients and/or prevent us from gaining new clients critical for our success. There are several additional major market sectors in which we plan to compete with our CodecSys technology, all with active competitors. These sectors include the basic codec technology market, the corporate enterprise network market and small business streaming media market. These are sectors where we may compete by providing direct services. Competition in these new market areas will also be characterized by intense competition with much larger and more powerful companies, such as Microsoft and Yahoo, which are already in the video compression and transmission business. Many of these competitors already have established customer bases with industry standard technology, which we must overcome to be successful. On a technology basis, CodecSys competition varies by market sector, with codecs and codec suppliers like Microsoft Windows Media Player, Real Networks’ Real Player, Apple QuickTime, MPEG2, MPEG4, On2, DivX and many others. There are several companies, including Akamai, Inktomi, Activate and Loudeye, which utilize different codec systems. These companies specialize in encoding, hosting and streaming content services primarily for news/entertainment clients with large consumer audiences. All are larger and have greater financial resources than we have. Tandberg/Erickson and Harmonic are two of the largest suppliers of high end video encoders to the broadcast industry and are the incumbent suppliers to many of the customers to which we are selling. 14 If we fail to hire additional specialized personnel or retain are key personnel in the future, we will not have the ability to successfully commercialize our technology or manage our business. We still need to hire additional specialized personnel to successfully commercialize our CodecSys technology. If we are unable to hire or retain qualified software engineers and project managers, our ability to complete further development and commercialization efforts will be significantly impaired. Our success is also dependent upon the efforts and abilities of its management team. If we lose the services of certain of our current management team members, we may not be able to find qualified replacements, which would harm the continuation and management of our business. Our revenue is dependent upon the sales efforts of others. We are dependent upon the sales and marketing efforts of IBM, HP, Fujitsu and other third-party businesses in order to derive licensing revenue from its CodecSys technology. Such businesses may not continue their sales efforts which would adversely affect our potential licensing fees. We are not able to control the sales and marketing efforts of these third parties. Limited revenues from our historical sources make it even more dependent upon the sales efforts of others. Given the current recession and market developments, third-party businesses may scale back on sales efforts which could significantly harm our business and prospects. We rely heavily on a few significant customers and if we lose any of these significant customers, our business may be harmed. A small number of customers account for a large percentage of our revenue. Our business model relies upon generating new sales to existing and new customers. In September 2009 Broadcast secured a contract with a large national organization, which has become its largest customer. We have been informed by this largest customer, that our contract to provide digital signage services to this customer would be extended through May 31, 2013 and will then terminate. We may continue to provide managed media services to the customer for a 3-year period, but in excess of 90% of our revenues from the customer are for the digital signage service. As a result of this termination, our revenues will decline substantially, which will harm our business, unless we can replace that customer with another similarly large customer or customers. There is significant uncertainty regarding our patent and proprietary technology protection. Our success is dependent upon its CodecSys technology and other intellectual property rights. If we are unable to protect and enforce these intellectual property rights, competitors will have the ability to introduce competing products that are similar to ours. If this were to occur, our revenues, market share and operating results would suffer. To date, we have relied primarily on a combination of patent, copyright, trade secret, and trademark laws, and nondisclosure and other contractual restrictions on copying and distribution to protect its proprietary technology. Our initial U.S. patent related to our CodecSys technology was granted by the PTO in August 2007 and four additional patents related to applications of the technology were subsequently issued by the PTO. As of December 31, 2012, eleven foreign countries had issued our initial patent. In addition, we have 20 pending U.S. and foreign patent applications. If we fail to deter misappropriation of its proprietary information or if we are unable to detect unauthorized use of its proprietary information, then our revenues, market share and operating results will suffer. The laws of some countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Furthermore, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. This litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources that would harm our business. 15 Our products could infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, which may subject us to future litigation and cause financial harm to its business. To date, we have not been notified that our services, products and technology infringe the proprietary rights of third parties, but there is the risk that third parties may claim infringement by us with respect to current or future operations. We expect software developers will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in the industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. Any of these claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming to defend, result in costly litigation, divert management’s attention and resources, cause product shipment delays, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. These royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us. A successful claim against us of infringement and failure or inability to license the infringed or similar technology on favorable terms would harm its business. Our common stock is considered “penny stock” which may make selling the common stock difficult. Our common stock is considered to be a “penny stock” under the definitions in Rules 15g-2 through 15g-6 promulgated under Section 15(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Under the rules, stock is considered “penny stock” if: (i) the stock trades at a price less than $5.00 per share; (ii) it is not traded on a “recognized” national exchange; (iii) it is not quoted on the Nasdaq Stock Market, or even if quoted, has a price less than $5.00 per share; or (iv) is issued by a company with net tangible assets less than $2.0 million, if in business more than a continuous three years, or with average revenues at less than $6.0 million for the past three years. The principal result or effect of being designated a “penny stock” is that securities broker-dealers cannot recommend our stock but must trade it on an unsolicited basis. Section 15(g) of the Exchange Act and Rule 15g-2 promulgated thereunder by the SEC require broker-dealers dealing in penny stocks to provide potential investors with a document disclosing the risks of penny stocks and to obtain a manually signed and dated written receipt of the document before effecting any transaction in a penny stock for the investor’s account. Potential investors in Broadcast common stock are urged to obtain and read such disclosure carefully before purchasing any shares that are deemed to be “penny stocks.” Moreover, Rule 15g-9 requires broker-dealers in penny stocks to approve the account of any investor for transactions in such stocks before selling any penny stock to that investor. This procedure requires the broker-dealer to (i) obtain from the investor information concerning his or her financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives; (ii) reasonably determine, based on that information, that transactions in penny stocks are suitable for the investor and that the investor has sufficient knowledge and experience as to be reasonably capable of evaluating the risks of penny stock transactions; (iii) provide the investor with a written statement setting forth the basis on which the broker-dealer made the determination in (ii) above; and (iv) receive a signed and dated copy of such statement from the investor, confirming that it accurately reflects the investors financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives. Compliance with these requirements may make it more difficult for holders of our common stock to resell their shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them in the market or otherwise. Trading in our securities could be subject to extreme price fluctuations that could cause the value of your investment to decrease. Our stock price has fluctuated significantly in the past and could continue to do so in the future. Our stock is thinly-traded, which means investors will have limited opportunities to sell their shares of common stock in the open market. Limited trading of our common stock also contributes to more volatile price fluctuations. The market price of our common stock is also subject to extreme fluctuations because of the nature of the CodecSys technology and the potential for large-scale acceptance or rejection of our technology in the marketplace. Given these fluctuations, an investment in our common stock could lose value. A significant drop in our stock price could expose it to the risk of securities class action lawsuits. Defending against such lawsuits could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, thereby causing an investment in stock to lose additional value. 16 Future sales of our common stock could cause our stock price to decrease. Substantial sales of our common stock in the public market, or the perception by the market that such sales could occur, could lower our stock price. As of March 15, 2013, we had 107,932,373 shares of common stock outstanding. As of March 15, 2013, stock options, including options granted to our employees, and warrants to purchase an aggregate of 44,246,863 shares of our common stock were issued and outstanding, a substantial portion of which were fully exercisable. As of March 15, 2013, notes convertible into 17,900,000 shares of our common stock were issued and outstanding. As of March 15, 2013, we had granted restricted stock units to members of our board of directors and others, which may be settled at various time in the future by the issuance of 3,368,247 shares of common stock. In connection with a proposed merger, we would be required to engage in an exchange offer with current warrant holders pursuant to which we expect to issue shares of our common stock in exchange for the termination and cancellation of most of our outstanding options and warrants (other than specified warrants) and all of our outstanding notes. In addition, we expect to issue shares of our common stock to non-Broadcast stockholders of IDI in a subsidiary merger. The number of shares is not currently determined. Following the closing of the exchange offers and the subsidiary merger, Broadcast will issue to the proposed merger partner’s stockholders in the merger additional shares of Broadcast common stock that will result in the proposed merger partner’s stockholders owning 54% of our outstanding common stock immediately following the merger (assuming the exercise or conversion of warrants, options and other derivative securities except for certain warrants). Future sales of our common stock, or the availability of our common stock for sale, may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Any stock ownership interest may be substantially diluted by future issuances of securities. We may issue shares of our common stock to holders of outstanding convertible notes, stock options and warrants. The conversion of the convertible notes and the exercise of options and warrants into shares of our common stock will be dilutive to stockholders. We also expect to continue to offer stock options to our employees and others, and as of March 15, 2013, we had approximately 3,779,508 shares of common stock available for future issuance under our 2004 long-term incentive stock option plan and 88,200 shares of common stock available for future issuance under our 2008 equity incentive plan. Although we anticipate terminating our 2004 long-term incentive stock option plan and 2008 equity incentive plan in connection with the proposed merger, such that no future grants may be made thereunder, we would assume the merger partner’s stock plan in the merger and expect to grant options and other equity awards under that plan in the future. Following the closing of the exchange offers and the subsidiary merger, Broadcast will issue to merger partner’s stockholders in the merger additional shares of Broadcast common stock that will result in the merger partner’s stockholders owning 54% of our outstanding common stock immediately following the merger (assuming the exercise or conversion of warrants, options and other derivative securities except for certain warrants). To the extent that future stock options are granted and ultimately exercised, there will be further dilution to stockholders. We have never paid dividends and do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the future, so any return on an investment in our common stock will depend on the market price of the stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to finance its operations. The terms and conditions of its convertible notes restrict and limit payments or distributions in respect of its common stock. The return on any investment in our common stock will depend on the future market price of such common stock and not on any potential dividends. Current and future legal proceedings against us could be costly and time consuming to defend. From time to time we are subject to legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business, including claims brought by our customers in connection with commercial disputes, employment-based claims made by our current or former employees, administrative agencies, or government regulators. Litigation, enforcement actions, and other legal proceedings, regardless of their outcome, may result in substantial costs and may divert management’s attention and our resources, which may harm our business, overall financial condition and operating results. In addition, legal claims that have not yet been asserted against us may be asserted in the future. 17 On July 27, 2012, CTC Resources Inc. dba U.S. Media Capital (“CTC”) filed a lawsuit in the Third Judicial District Court in and for Salt Lake City, State of Utah against ACC Capital Corporation (“ACC”), Loni L. Lowder and the Company (the “CTCD Lawsuit”) asserting claims for relief for breach of contract against ACC, breach of fiduciary duty and fraud against ACC and Mr. Lowder and civil conspiracy against ACC, Mr. Lowder and the Company, and seeking injunctive relief and constructive trust as to all defendants as well as money damages. On October 9, 2012, we filed our answer as well as a cross claim against ACC seeking declaratory relief as to the price to be paid by us for the leased equipment and specific performance against ACC. On January 7, 2013 in a hearing relative to a temporary injunction previously granted by the Court, the Court took testimony and heard arguments from the parties on the matter and the Court and the parties agreed that a trial would be unnecessary. Both parties submitted briefs regarding the law and summarizing the testimony elicited at the hearing. The Court’s judgment rendered on February 25, 2013 vacated the parties’ joint appraisal and required that the parties jointly secure another appraisal for the equipment, the results of which appraisal will be binding on the parties. We have paid $424,500 toward the purchase price of the equipment, which we believe satisfies our payment obligation, but pursuant to a restraining order we sought to prevent the lessor from contacting our customer, we have also escrowed an additional $425,100 with the Court and have a current obligation to continue making monthly escrow payments in the amount of $141,700 pending a decision in the matter. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 