ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, results of operations and financial condition are subject to a wide variety of risks, many of which are not exclusively within our control, that may cause our actual performance to differ materially from historical or projected future performance, including the risks that we identify below. In addition, other risks that are currently unknown to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Current Business A material disruption to our manufacturing plants in Wisconsin could adversely affect our ability to generate revenue. We produce most of our machines and aftermarket parts at our manufacturing plants in South Milwaukee and Milwaukee, Wisconsin. If operations at these facilities were to be disrupted as a result of equipment failures, natural disasters, work stoppages, power outages or other reasons, our business, financial conditions and results of operations could be adversely affected. Significant events could require us to make large capital expenditures to remedy the situation. Interruptions in production could increase costs and delay delivery of units in production. Production capacity limits could cause us to reduce or delay sales efforts until production capacity is available. Our facilities are also subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to fires, explosions or adverse weather conditions. Lost sales or increased costs that may we may experience during the disruption of operations may not be recoverable under our insurance policies, and longer-term business disruptions could result in a loss of customers. If this were to occur, our future sales levels, and therefore our future profitability and cash flow, could be adversely affected. We must attract and retain skilled labor in order to maintain and grow our business. Our ability to operate profitably and expand our operations depends in part on our ability to attract and retain skilled manufacturing workers, equipment operators, engineers and other technical personnel. Demand for these workers is currently high and the supply is limited, particularly in the case of skilled and experienced machinists, welders and engineers. As a result, our growth may be limited by the scarcity of skilled labor. Additionally, a significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers could result in a reduction in our skilled labor force, increases in the rates of wages we must pay or both. Further, we may be faced with increased training costs and reduced productivity as we train new employees. If our compensation costs increase or we cannot attract and retain skilled labor, our operating earnings could be reduced, and production capacity and growth potential could be impaired. 16 Our production capacity may not be sufficient to meet customer demand. We are currently operating at very high capacity utilization levels. In addition, our backlog of firm orders was $894.7 million as of December 31, 2006 compared to $658.6 million as of December 31, 2005. Our expectations for 2007 assume continued strong world economic growth, as well as continued growth of our sales. We are in the midst of a multi-phase expansion program at our South Milwaukee facility that will ultimately substantially increase our production capacity. However, our production capacity may not be expanded soon enough, or to a sufficient extent, to satisfy customer demand for our products. If we are unable to commit to producing products for our customers within the timeframes they require, they may seek to procure equipment from other sources to meet their project deadlines, which could adversely affect our future sales levels and profitability. If we are unable to purchase component parts or raw materials from key suppliers, or the prices of component parts or raw materials rise materially, or the costs of shipping products rise materially, our business and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. We purchase all of our AC drives and certain other electrical parts from Siemens. The loss of Siemens, our only critical sole source supplier, or delays, disruptions or other difficulties procuring parts from Siemens, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We also purchase track links, castings and forgings from suppliers with whom we have long-standing relationships. Although these are not sole source suppliers, the loss of these suppliers could affect our ability to maintain or lower costs. If we are required to procure alternative sources of supply, our ability to supply parts to our customers when needed could be impaired, we could lose business and our margins and cash flow could be reduced. Also, because we maintain limited production input inventories, even brief unanticipated delays in delivery by suppliers, including those due to capacity constraints, labor disputes, impaired financial condition of suppliers, weather emergencies or other natural disasters, may impair our ability to satisfy our customers and could adversely affect our operations. In addition, we use substantial quantities of wide-plate steel in our production processes. If the price of steel or other raw materials increases further and we are unable to recover those price increases, we will experience reduced margins. Any significant future delays in obtaining production inputs and other supplies could result in our delay in delivering or producing products for our customers, which could subject us to contractual damage claims or otherwise harm our business and results of operations. In addition, there recently has been consolidation within the steelmaking industry, which could impede our ability to rely on competitive balance and long-standing business relationships to procure steel on favorable terms and in a timely manner. We also purchase production inputs on terms extended to us by our suppliers based on our overall credit rating. If our credit rating were to change adversely, our suppliers may not be willing or able to continue to extend favorable terms to us, which could negatively impact our cash flow or cause us to incur increased indebtedness under our revolving credit facility. Some of our contracts require us to bear all costs of shipping and handling to the customer’s site. Because of the size and weight of our goods, these costs can be a significant portion of the total costs of a given contract. If transportation costs rise materially due to fuel prices or other factors, our margins could be reduced. 17 The industries we serve are subject to significant cyclical fluctuations. Because our customers’ purchasing patterns are affected by a variety of factors beyond our control, our sales and operating results may fluctuate significantly from period to period. Given the large sales prices of our machines, one or a limited number of machines may account for a substantial portion of our sales in any particular quarter or other period. Although we recognize sales on a percentage-of-completion basis for our machines, the timing of one or a small number of contracts in any particular period may nevertheless affect our operating results. In addition, sales and gross profit may fluctuate depending upon the sizes and the requirements of the particular contracts we enter into in that period. The sale of machines is cyclical in nature and sensitive to a variety of factors, including fluctuations in market prices for copper, coal, oil, iron ore and other minerals as well as alternatives to these minerals, changes in general economic conditions, interest rates, our customers’ replacement or repair cycles, consolidation in the mining industry and competitive pressures. Many factors affect the supply and demand for coal, minerals and oil and thus may affect the sale of our products and services, including: • the levels of commodity production; • the levels of mineral inventories; • commodities prices and changes in those prices; • the expected cost of developing new reserves; • the cost of conducting surface mining operations; • the level of surface mining activity; • worldwide economic activity; • substitution of new or competing inputs and mining methods; • national government political requirements; • environmental regulation; and • tax policies. If demand for mining services or surface mining equipment utilization rates decrease significantly, then demand for our products and services will decrease. As a result of this cyclicality, we have experienced, and in the future could experience, extended periods of reduced sales and margins. We rely on significant customers. Our business is dependent on securing and maintaining customers by promptly delivering reliable, high-performance products. We do not believe we are dependent upon any single customer; however, on an annual basis a single customer may account for a large percentage of our sales, particularly machine sales. In 2006, 2005 and 2004, BHP Billiton, our single largest 18 customer, accounted for approximately 13%, 14% and 12%, respectively, of our sales. The products that we may sell to any particular customer depend on the size of that customer’s capital expenditure budget devoted to surface mining plans in a particular year and on the results of competitive bids for major projects. Additionally, our top five customers in each of 2006, 2005 and 2004 collectively accounted for approximately 40%, 38% and 36%, respectively, of our sales. This trend reflects the recent consolidation within the mining industry. In addition, key sectors of the surface mining industry are dominated by a few enterprises, most of which are our customers. The loss of one or more of our significant customers or significantly reduced sales orders from significant customers caused by a downturn in the surface coal mining industry could, at least on a short-term basis, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The loss of key members of our management team could adversely affect our business. Our success substantially depends upon our ability to attract and retain qualified employees and upon the ability of senior management and other key employees to implement our business strategy and maintain and grow customer and supplier relationships. We believe there are only a limited number of available qualified executives in our industry. We rely substantially upon the services of Timothy W. Sullivan, our president and chief executive officer. The loss of Mr. Sullivan’s services or the services of other members of our management team or our inability to attract or retain other talented personnel could impede the further implementation of our business strategy, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to risks of doing business in foreign countries, including emerging markets. We derive the majority of our sales from foreign markets where we have substantial operations. During 2006, we generated $556.4 million, or approximately 75%, of our sales outside the United States. Various political, regulatory or economic factors, or changes in those factors, have the potential to adversely affect our international operations and our financial results. These factors principally include: • trade protection measures and price controls; • trade sanctions and embargos; • import or export licensing requirements; • economic downturns, civil disturbances or political instability; • employment regulations; • regulations regarding repatriation of earnings; • ability to enforce contract and intellectual property rights; • nationalization and expropriation; and • potentially burdensome taxation. In addition, a significant portion of our international business is conducted in emerging markets located in Asia, Africa and South America. Many of the countries in these regions in 19 which we operate have developing legal and economic systems, adding a level of uncertainty to our operations in those countries relative to those that would be expected domestically. The above factors, and related unpredictability, could place the value of our operations and business relationships in overseas markets at risk, which could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are subject to risks related to conducting business in foreign currencies. Our Australian, Canadian, South African, Brazilian, Chilean and British aftermarket parts sales are denominated in the currencies of those nations, and the majority of our service sales are denominated in these and other local currencies. Although a portion of the expenses of providing overseas services are denominated in local currencies, the cost of goods associated with overseas sales are generally incurred in United States dollars. As a result, an increase in the value of the United States dollar relative to these nations’ currencies would decrease the United States dollar equivalent of aftermarket sales earned abroad without decreasing the United States dollar value of a portion of the expenses associated with overseas sales. We do not hedge currency exposures related to our aftermarket business, which is naturally hedged only in part through the incurrence of part of the associated labor, operating expenses and ancillary costs in local currencies. Currency controls, devaluations, trade restrictions and other disruptions in currency convertibility and in the market for currency exchange could limit our ability to convert revenues earned abroad into United States dollars in a timely way. This could adversely affect our ability to service our United States dollar indebtedness, fund our United States dollar costs, finance capital expenditures and pay dividends on our common stock. We operate in a highly competitive industry. Methods of competition are diverse and include price, customer relationships, lead times, operating costs, product productivity, design and performance, reliability, warranty, service, delivery and other commercial factors. In the aftermarket, we compete with P&H, Atlas Copco AB and numerous independent firms that produce copies of the parts manufactured by us and other original equipment manufacturers. In electric mining shovels and draglines, we compete almost exclusively with P&H, although for certain applications our electric mining shovels may also compete against hydraulic shovels made by other manufacturers. In the market for rotary blasthole drills, our primary competitors are P&H and Atlas Copco AB. In China and Russia, we also face some limited competition from regional and domestic equipment manufacturers. As those markets and markets in other industrialized countries continue to develop, this competition may increase. Certain of our competitors may be larger or have greater financial, marketing, manufacturing or distribution resources than we do. Demand for our products may be affected by our ability to respond to downward pricing pressure from our competitors or to continue to provide shorter lead time and quicker delivery of our products than our competitors. We cannot assure you that our products will continue to compete successfully with those of our competitors or that we will be able to retain our customer base or improve or maintain our profit margins on sales to our customers. If we are unable to do so, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. 20 If we fail to offer technologically advanced equipment to our customers, demand for our products may be materially adversely affected. Increasingly, mining companies must have accurate, detailed and up-to-date information on their machines and their mines in order to compete efficiently and effectively. The growth and integration of technologies such as wireless communication, GPS, onboard electronics and operation management software allows mining systems to be monitored, optimized and integrated throughout the mine, and provides more precise and safer methods for extracting materials. We believe that our mining industry customers are focused on improving automation, standardization and consolidation of machines and mining operations. In that regard, we concentrate on producing technologically advanced machines that allow our customers to conduct cost-efficient operations. To remain competitive, we believe we must develop new and innovative products on an on-going basis. If we are unable to continue developing new and innovative products that incorporate technological advancements and meet the evolving requirements of our customers, or if we are unable to successfully bring such products to market, or if our competitors produce and sell equipment that is more technologically advanced than ours, the demand for our mining equipment could be materially adversely affected. Regulations affecting the mining industry or electric utilities may reduce demand for our products and services. Our principal customers are surface mining companies. Many of these customers supply coal as a power generating source for the production of electricity in the United States and other industrialized regions and emerging markets around the world. The operations of these mining companies are geographically diverse and are subject to or affected by a wide array of regulations in the jurisdictions in which they operate, including those with a direct impact on mining activities and those indirectly affecting their businesses, such as applicable environmental laws and regulations governing the operation of electric utilities. As a result of changes in regulations and laws relating to the operation of mines, our customers’ mining operations could be disrupted or curtailed by governmental authorities. The high cost of compliance with mining and environmental regulations may also induce customers to discontinue or limit their mining operations, and may discourage companies from developing new mines. Additionally, government regulation of electric utilities may adversely impact the demand for coal to the extent that such regulations cause electric utilities to select alternative energy sources and technologies as a source of electric power. Initiatives to regulate mercury emissions, and initiatives targeting acid rain or greenhouse gas emissions, could significantly depress coal consumption in Western economies. If demand for coal declines, demand for our products will also decline, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Labor disruptions could adversely affect our operations. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 415 of our employees at our South Milwaukee and Milwaukee, Wisconsin and Memphis, Tennessee facilities were unionized. Our five and one-half year contract with the United Steel Workers of America representing hourly workers at our South Milwaukee and Milwaukee facilities and our three-year contract with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Chauffeurs, Warehousemen and Helpers of America representing workers at our Memphis warehouse facility expire in April 2010 and September 2008, respectively. After expiration of these agreements, we cannot assure you that we will be able to reach new agreements without a work stoppage or strike, and any new agreements may not be reached on terms satisfactory to us, may be on substantially different terms from our current agreements and may result in increased direct and indirect labor costs. A dispute between our employees and us 21 could divert significant management time and attention and disrupt our operations, and the resulting adverse impact on our relationships with customers could reduce our revenue. Also, certain of our mine site operations and production and other facilities are located in areas of high union concentration or in nations with laws favorable to unionization, and, as a result, such operations and facilities are susceptible to union organizing activity. In addition, the workforces of many of our suppliers and our transportation providers are unionized. If they are disrupted by labor issues, delivery of parts and materials to us could be reduced or delayed. Many of our customers have unionized work forces, and work stoppages experienced by our customers could cause us to lose sales or incur increased costs. We may be adversely affected by environmental and safety regulations or concerns. We are subject to increasingly stringent environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate, including laws and regulations governing emissions to air, discharges to water and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste materials. While we believe that we are currently in compliance in all material respects with these laws and regulations, we cannot assure you that we have always on a historical basis complied, or will continue to comply, with these requirements. If we are not in compliance with these laws and regulations, we may incur remediation obligations or other costs in excess of amounts reserved, or fines, penalties or suspension of production. We may be adversely impacted by costs, liabilities or claims with respect to existing or subsequently acquired operations, under either present laws and regulations or those that may be adopted or imposed in the future. We are also subject to laws requiring the cleanup of contaminated property. If a release of hazardous substances occurs at or from any of our current or former properties or at a landfill or another location where we have disposed of hazardous materials, we may be held liable for the contamination, and the amount of such liability could be material. In addition, increased environmental regulation of the mining industry in North America and overseas could increase costs to us or to our customers and adversely affect the sales of our products and future operating results. These requirements may change in the future in a manner that could require us to make capital and other expenditures, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may have to apply significant cash to meet our unfunded pension obligations, and these obligations are subject to increase. A substantial majority of our United States employees participate in our defined benefit pension plans and we also provide certain postretirement benefits. As of December 31, 2006, our unfunded pension and postretirement benefit liability totaled approximately $44.9 million. Declines in interest rates or the market values of the securities held by the plans, or other adverse changes, could materially increase the under-funded status of our plans and affect the level and timing of required cash contributions in 2007 and after. Our continued success depends in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property. Our future success depends in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We rely principally on nondisclosure agreements and other contractual arrangements and trade secret laws and, to a lesser extent, trademark and patent law, to protect our intellectual property, including jointly developed intellectual property. However, these measures could prove 22 inadequate to protect our intellectual property from infringement by others or to prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights. In addition, the laws and enforcement mechanisms of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do United States laws. Our inability to protect our proprietary information and enforce intellectual property rights through infringement or other enforcement proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are, and may be in the future, subject to product liability and other lawsuits related to past and current activities. The sale and servicing of complex, large scale machinery used in a variety of locations and climates, and integrating a variety of manufactured and purchased components entails an inherent risk of lawsuits and liability relating to the operation and performance of the machinery and the health and safety of the workers who operate and come into contact with the machinery. For example, we have been named as a co-defendant as of December 31, 2006, in approximately 290 personal injury liability cases alleging damages caused by exposure to asbestos and other substances, and the particular circumstances of many of these cases are difficult to assess because the claims allege exposure to a variety of substances from various sources over varying historical periods and assert the culpability of multiple defendants. These types of claims, and product liability claims in general, can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for long periods of time, regardless of the ultimate outcome. While we maintain product liability and other insurance to cover claims of this nature, including coverage for the historical periods during which the pending claims of which we are aware allege asbestos exposure, those policies are subject to deductibles and recovery limitations as well as limitations on contingencies covered. Also, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain insurance on acceptable terms in the future, if at all, or obtain insurance that will provide adequate coverage against potential future claims. These lawsuits and future lawsuits against us could be resolved in a manner that materially and adversely affects our product reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to Our Pending Acquisition of DBT We may not be able to complete the acquisition of DBT. Our share purchase agreement with RAG is subject to various closing conditions and termination provisions. We cannot assure you that we will successfully close the transaction on the terms or time frame previously disclosed or at all. If we are unable to complete the acquisition of DBT, our future growth may be adversely affected. We may encounter difficulties in integrating DBT’s operations that may have a material adverse impact on our future growth and operating performance. If we complete the acquisition of DBT, full realization of the benefits and synergies of the acquisition will require selective integration of certain aspects of DBT’s manufacturing, engineering, administrative, sales and marketing and distribution functions, as well as some integration of DBT’s multiple information systems platforms and processes, which can be a long and difficult process and can require substantial attention from our management team and involve substantial expenditures. Even if we are able to successfully integrate the selective operations of DBT, we may not be able to realize the benefits and synergies of the acquisition, either in the amount or within the time frame that we expect, or at all, and the costs of achieving these benefits may be higher than, and the timing may differ from, what we currently expect. Our ability to 23 realize anticipated benefits and synergies may be affected by a number of factors, including the following: • The use of more cash or other financial resources on integration and implementation activities than we expect, including restructuring and other exit costs; • increases in other expenses related to the acquisition, which may offset the cost savings and other synergies from the acquisition; and • our ability to avoid labor disruptions in connection with any integration. We cannot assure you that we will be able to integrate the selective operations of DBT successfully, that we will be able to realize anticipated benefits and synergies from the acquisition or that we will be able to operate the DBT business as profitably as anticipated after the acquisition. To the extent we increase our debt service obligations to finance the acquisition of DBT, we may have less cash flow available for business operations, we could become increasingly vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions and interest rate trends, and our ability to obtain future financing may be limited. We have received a financing commitment from Lehman Brothers to fund the cash purchase price for the DBT transaction. We currently expect that this financing will provide us with up to $1.23 billion of senior secured credit facilities, including an $825 million term loan that we will use to finance the DBT acquisition and refinance existing debt, as well as a $400 million revolving credit facility to fund our ongoing capital needs. We are currently evaluating various more permanent capital structures that could include the issuance of a combination of debt and/or equity securities. Our total long-term debt as of December 31, 2006 was approximately $82.3 million, which means that borrowings under our new facility will represent significantly increased aggregate debt levels for us. Our ability to make required payments of principal and interest on our increased debt levels will depend on our future performance (including the future performance of DBT), which, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business (including the business of DBT) will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available under our new credit facilities in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. In addition, our new credit agreement will contain financial and restrictive covenants that will limit our ability to, among other things, borrow additional funds or take advantage of business opportunities. Our failure to comply with such covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all our indebtedness or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and debt service capability. Our increased level of debt and the covenants contained in our new credit facilities could have important consequences for our operations, including: • Increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions and detract from our ability to successfully withstand a downturn in our markets or the economy generally; 24 • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to required payments on debt, thereby reducing the availability of such cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, manufacturing capacity expansion, additional business opportunities and other general corporate activities; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future to fund working capital, capital expenditures, manufacturing capacity expansion, additional business opportunities and other general corporate requirements; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets we serve; • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to less leveraged competitors; and • making us vulnerable to increases in interest rates because debt under our new credit facility will bear interest at variable rates. DBT may have liabilities which are not known to us. Because our acquisition subsidiary is purchasing the shares of DBT, it will assume DBT’s liabilities or risks after the closing of the transaction. There may be liabilities that we failed, or were unable, to discover in the course of performing due diligence investigations of DBT. We cannot assure you that our rights to indemnification contained in our share purchase agreement will be sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset the possible liabilities associated with the business or property acquired. Any such liabilities, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. After the closing of the transaction, we may learn additional information about DBT that adversely affects us, such as unknown or contingent liabilities and issues relating to compliance with applicable laws. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 