ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, results of operations and financial condition are subject to a wide variety of risks, many of which are not exclusively within our control, that may cause our actual performance to differ materially from historical or projected future performance, including the risks that we identify below. In addition, other risks that are currently unknown to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 19 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Current Business A material disruption to our manufacturing plants could adversely affect our ability to generate revenue. We produce most of our surface mining equipment and aftermarket parts at our manufacturing plants in South Milwaukee and Milwaukee, Wisconsin, and most of our underground mining equipment and aftermarket parts at our manufacturing plants in Germany, the United States (Pennsylvania, Virginia and Alabama) and, to a lesser extent, in Poland, China and Australia. If operations at any of these facilities were to be disrupted as a result of equipment failures, natural disasters, work stoppages, power outages or other reasons, our business, financial condition and/or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Any of these significant events could require us to make large unanticipated capital expenditures. Interruptions in production could increase our costs and delay our delivery of original equipment and parts in production. Production capacity limits could cause us to reduce or delay sales efforts until production capacity is available. All of our facilities are also subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to fires, explosions or adverse weather conditions. Lost sales or increased costs that we may experience during the disruption of operations may not be recoverable under our insurance policies, and longer-term business disruptions could result in a loss of customers. If this were to occur, our future sales levels, and therefore our future profitability and cash flow, could be materially adversely affected. We must attract and retain skilled labor in order to maintain and increase our business. Our ability to operate profitably and expand our operations, including the realization of the desired benefits of our current production capacity expansion program, depends in part on our ability to attract and retain skilled manufacturing workers, equipment operators, engineers and other technical personnel. Demand for these workers is currently high and the supply is limited, particularly in the case of skilled and experienced machinists, welders and engineers. Also, our underground mining business will face the retirement of a large number of skilled employees over the next five to ten years. As a result, our growth may be limited by the scarcity of skilled labor. Additionally, a significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers could result in a reduction in our skilled labor force, increases in the rates of wages we must pay or both. Further, we may be faced with increased training costs and reduced productivity as we train new employees. If our compensation costs increase or we cannot attract and retain skilled labor, including engineers, machinists and welders, our earnings could be reduced, and production capacity and growth potential could be impaired. Our surface mining production capacity may not be sufficient to meet customer demand. We are currently operating near full capacity at our surface mining equipment manufacturing facilities. In addition, our backlog of firm orders for surface mining equipment was $804.8 million as of December 31, 2007, compared to $894.7 million as of December 31, 2006. Our current expectations for 2008 assume continued strong global mining growth, as well as continued growth of our surface mining sales. We are completing the third phase of our expansion program at our South Milwaukee facility, which we believe will substantially increase our surface mining equipment production capacity, assuming we can employ sufficient skilled labor. However, production capacity may not be expanded soon enough, or to a sufficient extent, to satisfy customer demand for our surface mining products. If we are unable to commit to producing products for its customers within the timeframes they require, then these customers may seek to procure equipment from other sources to meet their project deadlines, which could adversely affect our future sales levels, profitability and cash flow. 20 Table of Contents If we are unable to purchase component parts or raw materials from key suppliers, the prices of component parts or raw materials rise materially, or the costs of shipping products rise materially, our business and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. We purchase all of our alternating current (“AC”) drives relating to surface mining equipment and certain other electrical parts pursuant to a 10-year agreement with Siemens Energy & Automation (“Siemens”). Delays, disruptions or other difficulties procuring parts from Siemens, or our inability to obtain parts from Siemens altogether could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We purchase components of our roof supports from three primary suppliers pursuant to written agreements. The loss of any of these three primary suppliers, or delays, disruptions or other difficulties procuring parts from these suppliers or from related raw material sources, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to timely produce our roof supports and other underground mining original equipment and, ultimately, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We also purchase track links, castings and forgings from suppliers with whom we have longstanding relationships. Although these are not sole source suppliers, the loss of these suppliers could affect our ability to maintain or lower costs. If we are required to procure alternative sources of supply, our ability to supply parts to our customers when needed could be impaired, we could lose business and our margins and cash flow could be reduced. Also, because we maintain limited production input inventories, even brief unanticipated delays in delivery by suppliers, including those due to capacity constraints, labor disputes, impaired financial condition of suppliers, weather emergencies or other natural disasters, may impair our ability to satisfy our customers and could adversely affect our operations. In addition, we use substantial quantities of steel in our production processes. If the price of steel or other raw materials increases further and we are unable to recover those price increases, or if availability of certain types of steel decreases and we are not able to acquire sufficient quantities of this steel, we will experience reduced margins. Any significant future delays in obtaining production inputs and other supplies could result in our delay in delivering or producing products for our customers, which could subject us to contractual damage claims or otherwise harm our business and results of operations. In addition, there recently has been consolidation within the steelmaking industry, which could impede our ability to rely on competitive balance and longstanding business relationships to procure steel on favorable terms and in a timely manner. We also purchase component parts and raw materials on terms extended to us by our suppliers based on our overall credit rating. We significantly increased our debt levels to fund the DBT acquisition. If our credit rating were to change adversely, our suppliers may not be willing or able to continue to extend favorable terms to us, which could negatively impact our cash flow or cause us to incur increased indebtedness under our revolving credit facility. Some of our contracts require us to bear all costs of shipping and handling to the customer’s site. Because of the size and weight of our goods, these costs can be a significant portion of the total costs of a given contract. If transportation costs rise materially due to fuel prices or other factors, our margins could be reduced. 21 Table of Contents The industries we serve and our business are subject to significant cyclical fluctuations. The sale of mining equipment is cyclical in nature and sensitive to a variety of factors, including fluctuations in market prices for coal, copper, oil, iron ore and other minerals, as well as alternatives to these minerals, changes in general economic conditions, interest rates, our customers’ replacement or repair cycles, consolidation in the mining industry and competitive pressures. Many factors affect the supply and demand for coal, minerals and oil and thus may affect the sale of our products and services, including: • commodities prices and changes in those prices; • the levels of commodity production; • the levels of mineral inventories; • the expected cost of developing new reserves; • the cost of conducting mining operations; • the level of mining activity; • worldwide economic activity; • substitution of new or competing inputs and mining methods; • national government political requirements; • environmental regulation; and • tax policies. If demand for mining services or mining equipment utilization rates decrease significantly, then demand for our products and services (particularly demand for original equipment, which tends to be closely correlated with the strength of commodity markets and, as a result, tends to be more cyclical than aftermarket sales), will likely decrease. Future decreased demand for original equipment may impact our results of operations to a greater extent than decreased demand in prior periods since the total percentage of our sales derived from the sale of original equipment versus aftermarket parts and services increased as a result of the DBT acquisition. As a result of this cyclicality, we have experienced, and in the future could experience, extended periods of reduced sales and margins. Because our customers’ purchasing patterns are affected by a variety of factors beyond our control, our sales and operating results may fluctuate significantly from period to period. Given the large sales prices of our equipment, one or a limited number of machines may account for a substantial portion of our sales in any particular quarter or other period. Although we recognize sales on a percentage-of-completion basis for most of our original equipment, the timing of one or a small number of contracts in any particular period may nevertheless affect our operating results. In addition, our sales and gross profit may fluctuate depending upon the sizes and the requirements of the particular contracts we enter into in that period. 22 Table of Contents As a result of the DBT acquisition, our consolidated sales to coal mining customers have increased substantially, which makes our results of operations more dependent on the commodity price of coal and other conditions in the coal markets. Our consolidated sales to coal mining customers have increased substantially as a result of the DBT acquisition. Approximately 96% of DBT’s sales in 2006 were derived from sales to coal mining customers compared to approximately 53% of Bucyrus’ sales for the same period. On a pro forma combined basis, our 2007 sales to coal mining customers accounted for approximately 79% of our total sales. Many of these customers supply coal as fuel for the production of electricity in the United States and other countries. Government regulation of electric utilities may adversely impact the demand for coal to the extent that such regulations cause or require such utilities to select alternative energy sources or technologies as a source of electric power. If a more economical form of electricity generation is discovered, developed or mandated, or if a current alternative source of energy such as nuclear power becomes more widely accepted or cost effective, the demand for our mining equipment could be adversely affected. In any given year, we rely on significant customers for a large percentage of our sales. Our business is dependent on securing and maintaining customers by promptly delivering reliable and high-performance products. We do not believe we are dependent upon any single customer; however, on an annual basis a single customer may account for a large percentage of our sales, particularly original equipment sales. In 2007, 2006 and 2005, BHP Billiton, our largest surface mining customer, accounted for approximately 9%, 13% and 14%, respectively, of our surface mining sales. No one customer accounted for 10% or more of our underground mining sales in 2007. In 2006, the Shenhua Group accounted for approximately 14% of DBT’s sales. The products that we may sell to any particular customer depend on the size of that customer’s capital expenditure budget devoted to mining plans in a particular year and on the results of competitive bids for major projects. Additionally, our top five surface mining customers in each of 2007, 2006 and 2005 collectively accounted for approximately 27%, 40% and 38%, respectively, of our surface mining sales. This trend reflects the recent consolidation within the mining industry. In addition, key sectors of the mining industry are dominated by a few enterprises, most of which are our customers. The loss of one or more of our significant customers or significantly reduced sales orders from significant customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The loss of key members of our management team could adversely affect our business. Our success substantially depends upon our ability to attract and retain qualified employees and upon the ability of senior management and other key employees to implement our business strategy and maintain and enhance our customer and supplier relationships. We believe there are only a limited number of available qualified chief executives in our industry. We rely substantially upon the services of our executive officers, and the loss of their services or the services of other members of our management team or our inability to attract or retain other talented personnel could impede the further implementation of our business strategy, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 23 Table of Contents We are subject to risks of conducting business in foreign countries, including emerging markets. We derive the majority of our sales from foreign markets where we have substantial operations. During 2007, we generated $1.2 billion, or approximately 72%, of our sales outside the United States (exports from the United States and sales by our foreign subsidiaries) compared to $556.4 million, or 75% in 2006. Various political, regulatory or economic factors, or changes in those factors, have the potential to adversely affect our international operations and our financial results. These factors principally include: • tariffs and price controls; • trade sanctions and embargos; • reduction in government subsidies; • import or export licensing requirements; • economic downturns, civil disturbances or political instability; • employment regulations; • nationalism; • regulations regarding repatriation of earnings; • ability to enforce contract and intellectual property rights; • nationalization and expropriation; and • potentially burdensome taxation. In addition, a significant portion of our international business is conducted in emerging markets located in Asia, Africa and South America. Many of the countries in these regions have developing legal and economic systems, which add a level of uncertainty to our operations in those countries relative to those that would be expected domestically. The DBT acquisition has increased our sales to customers in the developing markets of China, India and Eastern Europe, which will increase our exposure to the uncertainty associated with the developing governmental, legal and economic systems in those countries. We also plan to expand our manufacturing capacity in China, and the expansion process and the subsequent operation of the manufacturing facility will further increase our exposure to the uncertainties in this emerging market. The above factors, and related unpredictability, could place the value of our operations and business relationships in overseas markets at risk, which could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are subject to risks related to conducting business in foreign currencies. As a result of the DBT acquisition, we are now subject to substantially higher foreign currency exchange risk because we sell a significant amount of our underground mining products in Euros, while we sell most of our surface mining products in United States dollars, and we report our combined consolidated results in United States dollars. As a result, an increase in the value of the United States dollar or the Euro, relative to other nations’ currencies, would decrease the United States dollar or Euro equivalent of our underground mining sales earned without decreasing the United States dollar or Euro value of the expenses associated with its sales. 24 Table of Contents Additionally, most of our aftermarket parts sales in Australia, South Africa, Brazil and the United Kingdom are denominated in the currencies of those nations, and the majority of our service sales are denominated in these and other local currencies. Although a portion of the expenses of providing overseas services are denominated in local currencies, the cost of goods associated with overseas sales are generally incurred in United States dollars and Euros. As a result, an increase in the value of the United States dollar or the Euro relative to these nations’ currencies would decrease the United States dollar or Euro equivalent of aftermarket sales earned abroad without decreasing the United States dollar or Euro value of a portion of the expenses associated with overseas sales. Currency controls, devaluations, trade restrictions and other disruptions in currency convertibility and in the market for currency exchange could limit our ability to convert revenues earned abroad into United States dollars or Euros in a timely way. This could adversely affect our ability to service our United States dollar or Euro indebtedness, fund our United States dollar or Euro costs, finance capital expenditures and pay dividends on our common stock. Therefore, our future results of operations may be subject to increased volatility. We operate in a highly competitive industry. Methods of competition in our business are diverse and include price, customer relationships, lead times, operating costs, productivity of equipment, design and performance, technology, reliability, warranty, service, delivery and other commercial factors. In electric mining shovels and draglines, we compete with P&H, and for certain applications our electric mining shovels may also compete against hydraulic shovels and small electric shovels made by other manufacturers. Among our primary competitors in the rotary blasthole drills market are Atlas Copco AB and Sandvik. In the aftermarket business, we compete with P&H, Atlas Copco AB, Sandvik and numerous independent firms that produce copies of the parts manufactured by us and other original equipment manufacturers. In the underground mining segment, we compete with Joy Global’s Joy Mining Machinery division for the sale of continuous miners, longwall shearers, powered roof supports and other underground mining equipment, as well as with a number of both established and emerging worldwide manufacturers of such equipment. In China and Eastern Europe, we also face competition from regional and domestic equipment manufacturers, including manufacturers owned directly or indirectly by governmental entities. For example, in China there is much pressure to increase domestic purchases for roof supports and to reduce the cost of roof supports which are imported. This circumstance could make it more difficult for us to compete effectively in China or realize some of the expected potential benefits of the DBT acquisition. As those markets and markets in other industrialized countries continue to develop, this competition may increase. Certain of our competitors, including Joy Global, may be larger than we are or have greater financial, marketing, manufacturing or distribution resources than we do. Demand for our products may be affected by our ability to respond to downward pricing pressure from our competitors or to continue to provide shorter lead time and quicker delivery of our products than our competitors. We cannot assure you that our products will continue to compete successfully with those of our competitors or that we will be able to retain our customer base or improve or maintain our profit margins on customer sales. If we are unable to maintain our profit margins, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 25 Table of Contents If we fail to offer technologically advanced equipment to our customers, demand for our products may be materially adversely affected. We believe that our mining industry customers are focused on improving automation, standardization and consolidation of equipment and mining operations. In that regard, we concentrate on producing technologically advanced equipment that allows our customers to conduct safe and cost-efficient operations. To remain competitive, we believe we must develop new and innovative products on an ongoing basis. If we are unable to continue developing new and innovative products that incorporate technological advancements and meet the evolving requirements of our customers, or if we are unable to successfully bring such products to market, or if our competitors produce and sell equipment that is more technologically advanced than ours, the demand for our mining equipment could be materially adversely affected. Regulations affecting the mining industry or electric utilities may reduce demand for our products and services. Our principal customers are mining companies. Many of these customers supply coal as a power generating source for the production of electricity in markets around the world. The operations of these mining companies are geographically diverse and are subject to or affected by a wide array of regulations in the jurisdictions in which they operate, including those with a direct impact on mining activities and those indirectly affecting their businesses, such as applicable environmental laws and regulations governing the operation of coal-fired power plants. As a result of changes in regulations and laws relating to the operation of mines, our customers’ mining operations could be disrupted or curtailed by governmental authorities. The high cost of compliance with mining and environmental regulations may also induce customers to discontinue or limit their mining operations, and may discourage companies from developing new mines. Additionally, government regulation of coal-fired power plants may adversely impact the demand for coal to the extent that such regulations cause electric utilities to select alternative energy sources and technologies as sources of electric power. Domestic and international initiatives to regulate mercury emissions and initiatives targeting acid rain or greenhouse gas emissions could significantly depress coal consumption in Western economies. If demand for coal declines, demand for our products will also decline, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Labor disruptions could adversely affect our operations. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 1,875 of our employees were unionized. Our five and one-half year contract with the United Steelworkers of America representing hourly workers at our South Milwaukee and Milwaukee facilities expire in April 2010 and our two year contract with the United Steelworkers representing hourly workers at our Pulaski, Virginia facility expires in August 2008. Many of the collective bargaining agreements relating to our underground mining non-United States employees may be terminated by either the union or the employer association with a one to three month notice period (although these agreements will remain in full force and effect until a new agreement has been reached). After expiration of these agreements, we are not assured of being able to reach new agreements without a work stoppage or strike, and any new agreements may not be reached on terms satisfactory to us, may be on substantially different terms from our current agreements and may result in increased direct and indirect labor costs. A dispute between our employees and us could divert significant management time and attention and disrupt our operations, and the resulting adverse impact on our relationships with customers could reduce our revenue. Also, a few of our mine site operations and production and other facilities are located in areas of high union 26 Table of Contents concentration or in nations with laws favorable to unionization, and, as a result, such operations and facilities are susceptible to union organizing activity. Additionally, our obligations under underground mining business labor agreements may prevent us from taking actions that we might otherwise deem prudent in connection with the operation of our underground mining business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or results of operations. In addition, the workforces of many of our suppliers and our transportation providers are unionized. If they are disrupted by labor issues, delivery of parts and materials to us could be reduced or delayed. Many of our customers have unionized work forces, and work stoppages experienced by our customers could cause us to lose sales or incur increased costs. We may be adversely affected by environmental and safety regulations or concerns. We are subject to increasingly stringent environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate, including laws and regulations governing emissions to air, discharges to water and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of, or exposure to, hazardous materials. We cannot assure you that we have always on a historical basis complied, or will continue to comply, with these requirements. If we are not in compliance with these laws and regulations, we may incur remediation obligations or other costs in excess of amounts reserved, or fines, penalties or suspension of production. We may be adversely impacted by costs, liabilities or claims with respect to existing or subsequently acquired operations, under either present laws and regulations or those that may be adopted or imposed in the future. We may incur environmental liabilities relating to properties acquired in the DBT acquisition or properties that had been formerly owned or operated by DBT that may not be covered by indemnification under our Share Purchase Agreement, or with respect to which indemnification may be limited by the Share Purchase Agreement, and there can be no assurance that RAG would be able to satisfy such indemnification obligation at the time we make a claim or at all. Our operations are also subject to laws requiring the cleanup of contaminated property. If a release of hazardous substances occurs, or has occurred, at or from any of our current or former properties or at a landfill or another location where we have disposed of hazardous materials, we may be held liable for the contamination, and the amount of such liability could be material. In addition, increased environmental regulation of the mining industry in North America and overseas could increase costs to us or to our customers and adversely affect the sales of our products and future operating results. These requirements may change in the future in a manner that could require us to make capital and other expenditures, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may have to apply significant cash to meet our unfunded pension obligations, and these obligations are subject to increase. A substantial portion of our United States employees participate in our defined benefit pension plans, and we also provide certain postretirement benefits. As of December 31, 2007, our unfunded pension and postretirement benefit liability totaled $34.7 million compared to $44.9 million as of December 31, 2006. Declines in interest rates or the market values of the securities held by the plans, or other adverse changes, could materially increase the underfunded status of our plans and affect the level and timing of required cash contributions in 27 Table of Contents 2008 and after. In addition, as of December 31, 2007, our international underground mining business had $113.2 million in unfunded pension liabilities with respect to its employees, with no assets set aside to fund such obligations. Our continued success depends in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property. Our future success depends in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We rely principally on nondisclosure agreements and other contractual arrangements and trade secret laws and, to a lesser extent, trademark and patent law, to protect our intellectual property, including jointly developed intellectual property. However, these measures could prove inadequate to protect our intellectual property from infringement by others or to prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights. In addition, the laws and enforcement mechanisms of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do United States laws. We expect that the expansion of our manufacturing capacity in China and potentially to other countries such as India or Brazil also may heighten our risk of intellectual property infringement due to the pervasive nature in those countries of independent firms called “will-fitters” that produce copies of the parts manufactured by us and other original equipment manufacturers. Our inability to protect our proprietary information and enforce intellectual property rights through infringement or other enforcement proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are, and may be in the future, subject to product liability and other lawsuits related to past and current activities. The selling and servicing of complex, large scale surface mining equipment used in a variety of locations and climates, and integrating a variety of manufactured and purchased components entails an inherent risk of lawsuits and liability relating to the operation and performance of the equipment and the health and safety of the workers who operate and come into contact with it. For example, as of December 31, 2007, we have been named as a co-defendant in 299 pending personal injury liability cases alleging damages caused by exposure to asbestos and other substances, and the particular circumstances of many of these cases are difficult to assess because the claims allege exposure to a variety of substances from various sources over varying historical periods and assert the culpability of multiple defendants. Our underground mining business is also subject to various product liability and personal injury claims, including those relating to alleged asbestos and silicosis exposure. These types of claims, as well as product liability claims in general, can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for long periods of time, regardless of the ultimate outcome. While we maintain product liability and other insurance to cover varying levels of claims of this nature, including varying levels of coverage for the historical periods during which the pending claims of which we are aware allege asbestos exposure, those policies are subject to deductibles and recovery limitations, and there are limitations on events covered by these policies. Also, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain insurance on acceptable terms in the future, if at all, or obtain insurance that will provide adequate coverage against potential future claims. These lawsuits and future lawsuits against us could be resolved in a manner that materially and adversely affects our product reputation, business, financial condition and/or results of operations. 28 Table of Contents We may encounter difficulties in integrating DBT’s operations that may have a material adverse impact on our future growth and operating performance. Full realization of the expected benefits of the DBT acquisition over time will require integration of certain aspects of DBT’s manufacturing, engineering, administrative, sales and marketing and distribution functions, as well as some integration of DBT’s multiple information systems platforms and processes. We plan to fully integrate DBT with our surface mining business. We expect to more fully analyze DBT’s internal organizational and operating structure and, where possible, identify appropriate opportunities for further integration over the longer term. This may be a long and difficult process and may require substantial attention from our management team and involve substantial expenditures and include additional operational expenses. Even if we are able to successfully integrate the operations of DBT, we may not be able to realize the expected benefits of the DBT acquisition, either in the amount of time or within the expected time frame, or at all, and the costs of achieving these benefits may be higher than, and the timing may differ from, what we currently expect. Our ability to realize anticipated benefits from the DBT acquisition may be affected by a number of factors, including the following: • use of more cash or other financial resources, and additional management time, attention and distraction, on integration and implementation activities than we expect, including restructuring and other exit costs; • increases in other expenses related to the DBT acquisition, which may offset any potential cost savings from the DBT acquisition; • our ability to realize anticipated levels of sales in emerging markets like China and India; and • our ability to avoid labor disruptions or disputes in connection with any integration. Any potential cost-saving opportunities may take at least several years to begin to implement, and any results of these actions may not be realized for at least several quarters following implementation. We cannot assure you that we will be able to integrate the operations of DBT successfully, that we will be able to realize any anticipated benefits and synergies from the DBT acquisition or that we will be able to operate the DBT business as profitably as anticipated. Because of the increase in our debt level and debt service obligations to finance the DBT acquisition, we may have less cash flow available for our business operations, we could become increasingly vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions and interest rate trends, and our ability to obtain future financing may be limited. We entered into new $1.225 billion credit facilities to fund the cash purchase price for the DBT acquisition and refinance certain existing debt and provide us with a revolving credit facility to support our future working capital needs, our operating needs and our capital expenditure plan. Our long-term debt, less current maturities, as of December 31, 2007 was $526.7 million compared to $82.2 million as of December 31, 2006. Our ability to make required payments of principal and interest on our increased debt levels will depend on the future performance of our combined businesses, which, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive and other factors that are beyond our control. In addition, our credit facilities contain 29 Table of Contents financial and restrictive covenants that limit our ability to, among other things, borrow additional funds or take advantage of business opportunities. Our failure to comply with such covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all our indebtedness or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and debt service capability. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Description of Credit Facilities” in this Form 10-K. Our increased level of debt and the restrictive covenants contained in our credit facilities could have important consequences for our business, results of operations and/or financial condition, including: • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions and detract from our ability to successfully withstand a downturn in our markets or the economy generally; • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to required payments on debt, thereby reducing the availability of such cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, manufacturing capacity expansion, additional business opportunities and other general corporate activities; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future to fund working capital, capital expenditures, manufacturing capacity expansion, additional business opportunities and other general corporate requirements; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets we serve; • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to less leveraged competitors; and • making us vulnerable to increases in interest rates because a portion of the debt under our new credit facilities will bear interest at variable rates. In connection with the DBT acquisition, we are required to fulfill DBT’s obligations under a collective bargaining agreement, which obligations place certain restrictions on our underground mining business for a period of time. Pursuant to the Share Purchase Agreement with RAG, we are required to fulfill certain obligations under a collective bargaining agreement covering DBT’s employees. We are not allowed to, among other things, • move DBT’s corporate headquarters from Lünen, Germany prior to December 31, 2009; • with certain exceptions, terminate more than 30 DBT employees per year prior to December 31, 2010; or • dispose of DBT’s German, United States or Australian business units prior to December 31, 2009. If DBT’s order intake materially decreases from the order amounts set forth in the business plan during two consecutive fiscal quarters, and negotiations to find a mutually agreed solution which is acceptable to both us and DBT’s employees are unsuccessful, DBT would be able to terminate the collective bargaining agreement. On February 18, 2008, we entered into 30 Table of Contents an addendum to the Share Purchase Agreement whereby in consideration of receipt of 3,000,000 Euros for the payment of severance packages for certain employees, we would refrain from exercising the right to terminate the collective bargaining agreement until December 31, 2009. The collective bargaining agreement otherwise terminates on December 31, 2010. Additionally, to facilitate the DBT acquisition, we entered into a Shareholders’ Agreement with HMS Hamburg Trust GmbH, or the Hamburg Trust, a German domiciled special purpose financial intermediary. Under the terms of the Shareholders’ Agreement, the Hamburg Trust acquired non-voting equity securities (with no rights to cash flows or dividends) of DBT Holdings GmbH, which is the company that purchased the shares of DBT from RAG pursuant to the Share Purchase Agreement. Pursuant to that Shareholders’ Agreement, we agreed with the Hamburg Trust that, among other things, we would not take action that would result in a breach of or deviation from the collective bargaining agreement without the consent of Hamburg Trust. These obligations may prevent us from taking actions that we might otherwise deem prudent in connection with the operation of DBT’s business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. DBT may have liabilities which are not known to us. Because our acquisition subsidiary purchased the shares of DBT, it assumed DBT’s liabilities and risks after the closing of the transaction, subject to certain representations and warranties of, and indemnification rights against, RAG. There may be liabilities or risks that we failed, or were unable, to discover, or that we underestimated, in the course of performing our due diligence investigations of DBT. Additionally, DBT has made previous acquisitions and we will be subject to any liabilities and risks relating to these prior acquisitions as well. We cannot assure you that our rights to indemnification contained in our Share Purchase Agreement will be sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset the possible liabilities associated with the business or property acquired. Any such liabilities, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. As we begin to integrate DBT, we may learn additional information about DBT that adversely affects us, such as unknown or contingent liabilities, issues relating to compliance with applicable laws or issues related to ongoing customer relationships or order demand. To remain compliant with the obligations imposed on us by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we may be required to make significant changes in the internal controls, information systems and technologies or other aspects of DBT’s business. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires public companies like ours to review and make certain disclosures regarding their internal controls over financial reporting. We are also required to maintain certain disclosure controls and procedures and to take certain other actions and implement certain other practices and procedures, in order to remain compliant with other sections of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as other rules and regulations of the SEC applicable to us. We have in the past undertaken efforts, at substantial cost, to become compliant with these rules and regulations, including the documentation, testing and review of our internal controls over financial reporting under the direction of senior management and the implementation of a system of disclosure controls and procedures. We have not yet been able to adequately test or review the internal controls over financial reporting currently maintained by DBT and, as a result, do not know whether such internal controls are 31 Table of Contents sufficient to allow us to identify significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in their design or operation which are reasonably likely to adversely affect our ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information and/or detect fraud. If DBT’s internal controls over financial reporting are not adequate or in conformity with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we may be required to use significant financial and managerial resources to implement a compliant system, or to disclose significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, which may subject us to penalties and other enforcement actions. Nevertheless, we have commenced this analytical process. We may also be required to use significant financial and managerial resources to implement a system of disclosure controls and procedures at DBT to ensure that material information relating to DBT is made known to us in a timely fashion. These actions may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We have entered a new line of business in which certain of our competitors have substantially more experience than we do. Through the DBT acquisition, we have entered the market for the production, sale and service of original equipment and spare parts and service for the underground mining industry, including equipment used in longwall mining, room and pillar mining, mineral processing, automation and control, transportation and material handling applications. Prior to the DBT acquisition, we manufactured and serviced original equipment only for surface mining applications and not for the underground mining industry. We cannot assure you that the business strategies applicable to our operations with respect to surface mining, or the manner in which we have implemented those strategies, will be effective in the underground mining market, or that we will be able to develop and implement alternative successful strategies, including strategies used to increase aftermarket sales and services. If we are unable to effectively manage our underground mining equipment operations or compete against our competitors who are more established in the underground mining industry, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 32 Table of Contents 