ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information contained in this report. Our business and our securities involve a high degree of risk. If we do not successfully commercialize our CodecSys technology, we may never achieve profitability or be able to raise future capital. It is imperative that we complete development of our CodecSys technology and commence sales of products or licensing of the technology to other parties. We have never been involved in a development project of the size and breadth that is involved with CodecSys and none of our management has ever been involved with a software development project. Management may lack the expertise and we may not have the financial resources needed for successful development of this technology. Furthermore, commercialization and future applications of the CodecSys technology are expected to require additional capital estimated to be approximately $2.0 million annually for the foreseeable future. This estimate will increase or decrease depending on funds available to us. If we are unsuccessful in our CodecSys development and commercialization efforts, it is highly doubtful we will achieve profitable operations or be able to raise a dditional funding in the future. There is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a “going concern.” Our current independent auditor, in its report dated April 2, 2007, and our former independent auditor, in its report dated February 18, 2005, with respect to our financial statements as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, and for each of the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, included a “going concern” modification. As discussed in Note 3 to the audited financial statements, we have incurred significant losses and used cash from operations for each of the three years ended December 31, 2006. Because of these conditions, our independent auditors have raised substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. 11 We need additional capital. If additional capital is not available, we may have to curtail or cease operations. In order to continue our operations, we need additional funding. Our monthly operating expenses currently exceed our monthly net sales by approximately $250,000 per month. This amount could increase significantly. Given our current level of CodecSys development activity, we expect our operating expenses will continue to outpace our net sales until we are able to generate additional revenue. We have no source of working capital except our current operations and the prospect of obtaining new equity or debt financing. We must continue to sell equity or find another source of operating capital until our operations are profitable. If we do not raise sufficient additional capital, we will be required to pursue one or a combination of the following remedies: significantly reduce operating expenses, sell part or all of our assets, or terminate operations. We have a limited operating history with our current business and have sustained and may continue to sustain substantial losses. Although we have been in existence for many years, our current business has only been ongoing for six years. We have sustained operating losses in each of the last five years. Through December 31, 2006, our accumulated deficit was $41,686,011. We may continue to sustain losses on a quarterly and annual basis. Covenant restrictions contained in our outstanding convertible notes may limit our ability to obtain additional capital and to operate our business. Our senior secured convertible notes and our unsecured convertible note contain, among other things, covenants that may restrict our ability to obtain additional capital or to operate our business. For example, (i) the senior secured convertible notes prohibit us from paying any dividends unless we obtain the prior written consent of the holders of at least 85% of the principal amount of such notes; (ii) the senior secured convertible notes and the unsecured convertible note contain anti-dilution provisions; and (iii) the securities purchase agreement, under which the unsecured convertible note was issued, granted rights of first refusal to participate in any future funding to the holder of the note purchased thereunder. Furthermore, a breach of any of the covenants contained in the convertible notes could result in a default under the notes, in which event the note holders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be im mediately due and payable, which would require us to secure additional debt or equity financing to repay the indebtedness or to seek bankruptcy protection or liquidation. Our systems of internal operational and financial controls may not be effective. We establish and maintain systems of internal operational and financial controls that provide us with critical information. These systems are not foolproof, and are subject to various inherent limitations, including cost, judgments used in decision-making, assumptions about the likelihood of future events, the soundness of our systems, the possibility of human error, and the risk of fraud. Moreover, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions and the risk that the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may deteriorate over time. Because of these limitations, any system of internal controls may not be successful in preventing all errors or fraud or in making all material information known in a timely manner to the appropriate levels of management. We have previously experienced significant defici encies in our required disclosure controls and procedures regarding the updating of certain accounting pronouncements and the reporting of current information required to be filed with the SEC. We have also experienced a significant deficiency and a material weakness in our required disclosure controls and procedures regarding our accounting entries and financial statements. As a result of these factors, we were required to restate certain accounting periods in 2005. Any future deficiency, weakness, malfunction or inadequacy related to internal operational or financial control systems could produce inaccurate and unreliable information that may harm our business. 12 We may be unable to respond adequately to rapid changes in technology. The market for private communication networks is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions. The introduction of new technology and products and the emergence of new industry standards not only impacts our ability to compete, but could also render our CodecSys technology uncompetitive or obsolete. If we are unable to adequately respond to changes in technology and standards, we will not be able to serve our clients effectively. Moreover, the cost to modify our services, products or infrastructure in order to adapt to these changes could be substantial and we may not have the financial resources to fund these expenses. We face intense competition that could harm our business. The communications industry is extremely competitive. We compete with numerous competitors who are much larger than us and have greater financial and other resources. With respect to video conferencing, we compete with Sony, Polycom, Tandberg and others. In the satellite network and services segment, we compete with Convergent Media Systems, Globecast, IBM, Cisco, TeleSat Canada and others. Our competitors have established distribution channels and significant marketing and sales resources. Competition results in reduced operating margins for our business and may cause us to lose clients and/or prevent us from gaining new clients critical for our success. There are several additional major market sectors in which we plan to compete with our CodecSys technology, all with active competitors. These sectors include the basic codec technology market, the corporate enterprise network market and small business streaming media market. These are sectors where we may compete by providing direct services. Competition in these new market areas will also be characterized by intense competition with much larger and more powerful companies, such as Microsoft and Yahoo, that are already in the video compression and transmission business. Many of these competitors already have an established customer base with industry standard technology, which we must overcome to be successful. On a technology basis, CodecSys competition varies by market sector, with codecs and codec suppliers like Microsoft Windows Media Player, Real Networks' Real Player, Apple QuickTime, MPEG2, MPEG4, On2, DivX and many others. There are several companies, including Akamai, Inktomi, Activate and Loudeye, that utilize different codec systems. These companies specialize in encoding, hosting and streaming content services primarily for news/entertainment clients with large consumer audiences. All are larger and have greater financial resources than we have. If we fail to hire additional specialized personnel or retain our key personnel in the future, we will not have the ability to successfully develop our technology or manage our business. We need to hire additional specialized personnel to successfully develop and commercialize our CodecSys technology. If we are unable to hire or retain qualified software engineers and project managers, our ability to complete development and commercialization efforts will be significantly impaired. Our success is also dependent upon the efforts and abilities of our management team. If we lose the services of certain of our current management team members, we may not be able to find qualified replacements which would harm the continuation and management of our business. We rely heavily on a few significant customers and if we lose any of these significant customers, our business may be harmed. A small number of customers account for a large percentage of our revenue. Our business model relies upon generating new sales to existing and new customers. Sales revenues from our three largest customers accounted for approximately 80% of total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006 and 62% of total revenues for the year ended December 31 2005. The three largest customers in 2006 are not the same as the three largest customers in 2005, as we lost one of those customers and gained a substantial new customer. Any material reduction in revenues generated from any one of our largest 13 customers could harm our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Our largest customers may not continue to purchase our services and may decrease their level of purchases. We do not expect that our largest customer will purchase as much of our services in 2007 as in 2006 in part because this customer was acquired by one of our competitors. To the extent that our largest customer reduces its reliance on us or terminates its relationship with us, revenues would decline substantially, which would harm our business, unless we can replace that customer with another similarly large customer. There is significant uncertainty regarding our patent and proprietary technology protection. Our success is dependent upon our CodecSys technology and other intellectual property rights. If we are unable to protect and enforce these intellectual property rights, competitors will have the ability to introduce competing products that are similar to ours. If this were to occur, our revenues, market share and operating results would suffer. To date, we have relied primarily on a combination of patent, copyright, trade secret, and trademark laws, and nondisclosure and other contractual restrictions on copying and distribution to protect our proprietary technology. As of January 31, 2007, we had four issued foreign patents and 20 pending U.S. and foreign patent applications. If we fail to deter misappropriation of our proprietary information or if we are unable to detect unauthorized use of our proprietary information, then our revenues, market share and operating results will suffer. The laws of some countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Furthermore, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. This litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources that would harm our business. Our products could infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, which may subject us to future litigation and cause financial harm to our business. To date, we have not been notified that our services, products and technology infringe the proprietary rights of third parties, but there is the risk that third parties may claim infringement by us with respect to current or future operations. We expect software developers will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in the industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. Any of these claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming to defend, result in costly litigation, divert management’s attention and resources, cause product shipment delays, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. These royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us. A successful claim against us of infringement and failure or inability to license the infringed or similar technology on favorable terms would harm our business. Our common stock is considered “penny stock” which may make selling the common stock difficult. Our common stock is considered to be a “penny stock” under the definitions in Rules 15g-2 through 15g-6 promulgated under Section 15(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Under the rules, stock is considered “penny stock” if: (i) the stock trades at a price less than $5.00 per share; (ii) it is not traded on a “recognized” national exchange; (iii) it is not quoted on the Nasdaq Stock Market, or even if quoted, has a price less than $5.00 per share; or (iv) is issued by a company with net tangible assets less than $2.0 million, if in business more than a continuous three years, or with average revenues at less than $6.0 million for the past three years. The principal result or effect of being designated a “penny stock” is that securities broker-dealers cannot recommend our stock but must trade it on an unsolicited basis. Section 15(g) of the Exchange Act and Rule 15g-2 promulgated thereunder by the SEC require broker-dealers dealing in penny stocks to provide potential investors with a document disclosing the risks of penny stocks and to obtain a manually signed and dated written receipt of the document before effecting any transaction in a penny stock for the investor’s account. Potential investors in our common stock are urged to obtain and read such disclosure carefully before purchasing any shares that are deemed to be 14 “penny stocks.” Moreover, Rule 15g-9 requires broker-dealers in penny stocks to approve the account of any investor for transactions in such stocks before selling any penny stock to that investor. This procedure requires the broker-dealer to (i) obtain from the investor information concerning his or her financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives; (ii) reasonably determine, based on that information, that transactions in penny stocks are suitable for the investor and that the investor has sufficient knowledge and experience as to be reasonably capable of evaluating the risks of penny stock transactions; (iii) provide the investor with a written statement setting forth the basis on which the broker-dealer made the determination in (ii) above; and (iv) receive a signed and dated copy of such statement from the investor, confirming that it accurately reflects the investor ’s financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives. Compliance with these requirements may make it more difficult for holders of our common stock to resell their shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them in the market or otherwise. Trading in our securities could be subject to extreme price fluctuations that could cause the value of your investment to decrease. Our stock price has fluctuated in the past and could continue to do so in the future. Our stock is thinly-traded, which means investors will have limited opportunities to sell their shares of common stock in the open market. Limited trading of our common stock also contributes to more volatile price fluctuations. The market price of our common stock is also subject to extreme fluctuations because of the nature of the CodecSys technology and the potential for large-scale acceptance or rejection of our technology in the marketplace. Given these fluctuations, an investment in our stock could lose value. A significant drop in our stock price could expose us to the risk of securities class action lawsuits. Defending against such lawsuits could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, thereby causing an investment in our stock to lose additional value. Future sales of our common stock could cause our stock price to decrease. Substantial sales of our common stock in the public market, or the perception by the market that such sales could occur, could lower our stock price. As of March 15, 2007, we had 27,345,274 shares of common stock outstanding. As of March 15, 2007, stock options, including options granted to our employees, and warrants to purchase an aggregate of 15,014,643 shares of our common stock were issued and outstanding, a substantial portion of which were fully exercisable. As of March 15, 2007, notes convertible into 2,333,334 shares of our common stock were issued and outstanding. Future sales of our common stock, or the availability of our common stock for sale, may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Adverse economic or other market conditions could reduce the purchase of our services by existing and prospective customers, which would harm our business. Our business is impacted from time to time by changes in general economic, business and international conditions and other similar factors. Adverse economic or other market conditions negatively affect the business spending of existing and prospective customers. In adverse market times, our network and other services may not be deemed critical for these customers. Therefore, our services are often viewed as discretionary and may be deferred or eliminated in times of limited business spending, thereby harming our business. Any stock ownership interest may be substantially diluted by future issuances of securities. We are currently contemplating another equity or convertible debt financing. In addition, we may issue shares of our common stock to holders of outstanding convertible notes, stock options and warrants. The conversion of the convertible notes and the exercise of options and warrants into shares of our common stock will be dilutive to shareholders. We also have offered and expect to continue to offer stock options to our employees and others, and have approximately 2,078,449 shares of common stock available for future issuance under our long-term incentive stock option plan. To the extent that future stock options are granted and ultimately exercised, there will be further dilution to shareholders. 15 We have never paid dividends and do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the future, so any return on an investment in our common stock will depend on the market price of the stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to finance our operations. The terms and conditions of our convertible notes restrict and limit payments or distributions in respect of our common stock. The return on any investment in our common stock will depend on the future market price of our common stock and not on any potential dividends. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 