ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, results of operations and financial position are subject to a wide variety of risks, many of which are not exclusively within our control, which may cause our actual performance to differ materially from historical or projected future performance, including the risks that we identify below. In addition, other risks that are currently unknown to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. Risks Related to our Acquisition of Terex Mining We may encounter difficulties in integrating Terex Mining’s operations, which may have a material adverse impact on our future growth and operating performance. Full realization of the expected benefits and synergies of the Terex Mining acquisition over time will require integration of certain aspects of Terex Mining’s manufacturing, engineering, administrative, sales and marketing and distribution functions, as well as some integration of Terex Mining’s multiple information system platforms and processes. We plan to fully integrate Terex Mining primarily into our surface mining business. We expect to more fully analyze Terex Mining’s internal organizational and operating structure and, where possible, identify appropriate opportunities for further integration over the longer term. This may be a long and difficult process and may require substantial attention from our management team and involve substantial expenditures and include additional operating expenses. Even if we are able to successfully integrate the operations of Terex Mining, we may not be able to realize the expected benefits of the Terex Mining acquisition, either in the amount or within the expected time frame, or at all, and the costs of achieving these benefits may be higher than, and the timing may differ from, what we currently expect. Our ability to realize anticipated benefits from the Terex Mining acquisition may be affected by a number of factors, including the following: • use of more cash or other financial resources and additional management time, attention and distraction on integration and implementation activities than we expect, including restructuring and other exit costs; • increases in expenses related to the acquisition and integration of Terex Mining, which may offset any potential cost savings from the acquisition; • our ability to realize anticipated levels of sales in emerging markets like China and India; and • our ability to avoid labor disruptions or disputes in connection with any integration. Any potential cost-savings opportunities may take at least several years to begin to implement, and any results of these actions my not be realized for at least several quarters following implementation. There can be no assurance that we will be able to integrate the operations of Terex Mining successfully, that we will be able to realize any anticipated benefits and synergies from the Terex Mining acquisition or that we will be able to operate the Terex Mining business as profitably as anticipated. 23 Table of Contents The acquisition of Terex Mining is being financed, in large part, with a $1.0 billion term loan which will substantially increase our debt service obligations. As a result, we may have less cash flow available for business operations, we could become increasingly vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions and interest rate trends, and our ability to obtain future financing may be limited. We entered into an amendment to our existing credit agreement to provide for an additional new secured term loan of $1.0 billion and $167.5 million of revolving credit facilities to fund the cash portion of the purchase price for Terex Mining and to support our future working capital needs and capital expenditure plan. Our total long-term debt, less current maturities, at December 31, 2009 was $499.7 million, which means that our borrowings under our new credit facilities will represent significantly increased aggregate debt levels for us. Our ability to make required payments of principal and interest on our increased debt levels will depend on future performance of our combined businesses, which, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive and other factors that are beyond our control. In addition, our amended credit agreement contains financial and restrictive covenants that may limit our ability to, among other things, borrow additional funds or take advantage of business opportunities. Our failure to comply with such covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all our indebtedness or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operation and debt service capability. Our increased level of debt and the financial and restrictive covenants contained in our amended new credit agreement could have important consequences on our financial position and results of operations, including: • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions and detraction from our ability to successfully withstand a downturn in our markets or the economy generally; • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to required payments on debt, thereby reducing the availability of such cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, manufacturing capacity expansion, additional business opportunities and other general corporate activities; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future to fund working capital, capital expenditures, manufacturing capacity expansion, additional business opportunities and other general corporate requirements; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets we serve; • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to less leveraged competitors; and • making us vulnerable to increases in interest rates because debt under our amended credit facility bears interest at variable rates. 24 Table of Contents We may have liabilities relating to Terex Mining which are not known to us. As part of the acquisition of Terex Mining, we assumed some of Terex Mining’s liabilities and risks after the closing of the transaction, subject to certain representations and warranties of, and indemnification rights against, Terex Corporation. There may be liabilities or risks that we failed, or were unable, to discover in the course of performing our due diligence investigations of Terex Mining. Additionally, Terex Mining has made previous acquisitions and we may be subject to potential liabilities and risks relating to these prior acquisitions as well. We cannot assure you that our rights to indemnification contained in our Asset and Stock Purchase Agreement will be sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset the possible liabilities associated with the business or property acquired. Any such liabilities, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. As we begin to integrate Terex Mining, we may learn additional information about Terex Mining that adversely affects us, such as unknown or contingent liabilities and issues relating to compliance with applicable laws or issues related to ongoing customer relationships or order demand. To remain compliant with the obligations imposed on us by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we may be required to make significant changes in the internal controls, information systems and technologies or other aspects of Terex Mining’s business. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires public companies like ours to review and make certain disclosures regarding their internal controls over financial reporting. We are also required to maintain certain disclosure controls and procedures and to take certain other actions and implement certain other practices and procedures, in order to remain compliant with other sections of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as other rules and regulations of the SEC applicable to us. In the past, we have undertaken efforts, at substantial cost, to become compliant with these rules and regulations, including the documentation, testing and review of our internal controls over financial reporting under the direction of senior management and the implementation of a system of disclosure controls and procedures. We have not yet been able to adequately test or review the internal controls over financial reporting currently maintained by Terex Mining and, as a result, do not know whether such internal controls are sufficient to allow us to identify significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in their design or operation which are reasonably likely to adversely affect our ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information and/or detect fraud. If Terex Mining’s internal controls over financial reporting are not adequate or in conformity with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we may be required to use significant financial and managerial resources to implement a compliant system or to disclose significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, which may subject us to penalties and other enforcement actions. Nevertheless, we have commenced this analytical process. We may also be required to use significant financial and managerial resources to implement a system of disclosure controls and procedures at Terex Mining to ensure that material information relating to Terex Mining is made known to us in a timely fashion. These actions may have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. 25 Table of Contents In connection with the acquisition of Terex Mining, we are required to fulfill certain employment obligations. For a period of one year following closing of the acquisition of Terex Mining, we are required to provide employment under reasonably comparable terms and conditions and overall employee benefits and compensation that are of reasonably comparable aggregate value to those provided to transferred employees immediately prior to the closing date. We are also precluded during a period of 90 days following closing from effectuating in the United States a “plant closing” or “mass layoff” as those terms are defined in the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act of 1988. Although this requirement does not preclude the termination of individual employees, it may prevent us from taking action that we might otherwise deem prudent in connection with the operation of the Terex Mining business, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. We have entered a new line of business in which certain of our competitors have substantially more experience than we do. Through the acquisition of Terex Mining, we have entered the market for the production, sale and service of original equipment and spare parts for additional equipment lines primarily used in surface mining including hydraulic shovels, off-highway haul trucks, highwall miners, hydraulic track drills and consumables. There can be no assurance that the business strategies applicable to our operations with respect to surface or underground mining, or the manner in which we have implemented those strategies, will be effective in the additional product lines, or that we will be able to develop and implement alternative successful strategies, including strategies used to increase aftermarket sales and services. If we are unable to effectively manage the acquired operations or compete against our competitors who are more established in their respective product lines, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business The industries we serve and our business are subject to significant cyclical fluctuations. The sale of mining equipment is cyclical in nature and sensitive to a variety of factors, including fluctuations in market prices for coal, copper, oil, iron ore and other minerals, as well as alternatives to these minerals, changes in general economic conditions, interest rates, our customers’ replacement or repair cycles, consolidation in the mining industry and competitive pressures. Many factors affect the supply and demand for coal, minerals and oil and thus may affect the sale of our products and services, including: • commodity prices and changes in those prices; • the levels of commodity production; • the levels of mineral inventories; • the expected cost of developing new reserves; • the cost of conducting mining operations; • the level of mining activity; 26 Table of Contents • worldwide economic activity; • substitution of new or competing inputs and mining methods; • national government political requirements; • environmental regulation; and • tax policies. If demand for mining services or mining equipment utilization rates decrease significantly, then demand for our products and services (particularly demand for original equipment, which tends to be closely correlated with the strength of commodity markets and, as a result, tends to be more cyclical than aftermarket sales), will likely decrease. As a result of this cyclicality, we have experienced, and in the future could experience, extended periods of reduced sales and margins. Because our customers’ purchasing patterns are affected by a variety of factors beyond our control, our sales and operating results may fluctuate significantly from period to period. Given the large sales prices of our equipment, one or a limited number of machines may account for a substantial portion of our sales in any particular quarter or other period. Although we recognize sales on a percentage-of-completion basis for most of our original equipment, the timing of one or a small number of contracts in any particular period may nevertheless affect our operating results. In addition, our sales and gross profit may fluctuate depending upon the sizes and the requirements of the particular contracts we enter into in that period. Changes in global financial markets and global economic conditions could adversely affect our business. Conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions affect our results of operations. The recent global financial crisis has caused extreme volatility and tightening in the global capital and credit markets. The decreased availability of credit or the inability to obtain third-party financing has resulted in our customers deferring capital expenditures, which could continue to adversely affect the demand for our mining equipment. Also, further deterioration in the global economy could lead to higher unemployment, lower consumer spending, reduced investment by businesses and reduced corporate earnings. This could result in our customers further deferring capital expenditures, which could adversely affect the demand for our mining equipment. In addition, poor conditions in global financial markets or global or regional recessionary economic conditions could lead to the cancellation or delay of existing orders, difficulty in collecting outstanding accounts receivable and affect the financial viability of our suppliers, some of which we may consider key suppliers. The occurrence of any of these items individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We currently generate funds from our operations and utilize our revolving credit facilities to pay our operating expenses, fund our capital expenditures, pay dividends and fund our employee retirement benefit programs. If changing economic conditions negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows or increase the underfunding of our pension 27 Table of Contents obligations, and the use of our revolving credit facilities is maximized, we may require access to capital and/or credit markets and our access to those markets may be limited, which could have a material adverse affect on our financial position and results of operations. A material disruption to our manufacturing plants could adversely affect our ability to generate revenue. We produce most of our surface mining equipment and aftermarket parts at our manufacturing plants in South Milwaukee, Wisconsin; Dortmund, Germany; Dennison, Texas; Acuna, Mexico; Halifax, United Kingdom; Perth, Australia; and Beckley, West Virginia, and most of our underground mining equipment and aftermarket parts at our manufacturing plants in Germany and the United States. If operations at any of these facilities were to be disrupted as a result of equipment failures, natural disasters, work stoppages, power outages or other reasons, our business, financial position and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Any of these significant events could require us to make large unanticipated capital expenditures. Interruptions in production could increase our costs and delay our delivery of original equipment and parts in production. Production capacity limits could cause us to reduce or delay sales efforts until production capacity is available. All of our facilities are also subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to fires, explosions or adverse weather conditions. Lost sales or increased costs that we may experience during the disruption of operations may not be recoverable under our insurance policies, and longer-term business disruptions could result in a loss of customers. If this were to occur, our future sales levels, and therefore our future financial position, results of operations and cash flow, could be materially adversely affected. Our results of operations are dependent on the commodity price of coal and other conditions in the coal markets. For the year ended December 31, 2009, substantially all of our underground mining sales and approximately 45% of our surface mining original equipment sales were to coal mining customers. Many of these customers supply coal as fuel for the production of electricity in the United States and other countries. Government regulation of electric utilities and greenhouse gas emissions may adversely impact the demand for coal to the extent that such regulations cause or require such utilities to select alternative energy sources a source of electric power. If a more economical form of electricity generation is discovered, developed or mandated, or if a current alternative source of energy such as nuclear, wind or solar power becomes more widely accepted or cost effective, or if diminished economic activity reduces demand for steel, the demand for our mining equipment could be adversely affected. We operate in a highly competitive industry. Methods of competition in our business are diverse and include price, customer relationships, lead times, operating costs, productivity of equipment, design and performance, technology, reliability, warranty, service, delivery and other commercial factors, as well as government mandates to purchase their mining equipment from local suppliers. In electric mining shovels and draglines, we have a major international competitor (P&H), and for certain applications our small electric mining shovels may also compete against the biggest diesel hydraulic excavators made by several worldwide manufactures and local and regional competitors, including quasi-governmental competitors. In the hydraulic excavators, drill, and 28 Table of Contents off-highway haul truck markets, we compete with several worldwide manufacturers. In the aftermarket business, we compete with several worldwide manufacturers and numerous independent firms that produce copies of the parts manufactured by us and other original equipment manufacturers. In our underground mining segment, we compete with Joy Global’s Joy Mining Machinery division for the sale of continuous miners, longwall shearers, powered roof supports, armored face conveyers (“AFC”) and other underground mining equipment, as well as with a number of both established and emerging worldwide manufacturers of such equipment. In China, India and Russia, we also face competition from regional and domestic equipment manufacturers, including manufacturers owned directly or indirectly by governmental entities. For example, in China there is much pressure to increase domestic purchases for roof supports and to reduce the cost of roof supports which are imported. This circumstance could make it more difficult for us to compete effectively in China. As those markets and markets in other industrialized countries continue to develop, this competition may increase. Certain of our competitors may have greater financial, marketing, manufacturing or distribution resources than we do. Demand for our products may be affected by our ability to respond to downward pricing pressure from our competitors or to continue to provide shorter lead time and quicker delivery of our products than our competitors. We cannot assure you that our products will continue to compete successfully with those of our competitors or that we will be able to retain our customer base or improve or maintain our profit margins on customer sales. If we are unable to maintain our profit margins, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In any given year, we rely on significant customers for a large percentage of our sales. Our business is dependent on securing and maintaining customers by promptly delivering reliable and high-performance products. We do not believe we are dependent upon any single customer; however, on an annual basis a single customer may account for a large percentage of our sales, particularly original equipment sales. Our top five surface mining customers in each of the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 collectively accounted for approximately 50%, 43% and 27%, respectively, of our total surface mining sales and our top five underground mining customers collectively accounted for approximately 41% and 43% of our total underground mining sales for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We believe these relatively high percentages reflect the recent consolidation within the mining industry. In addition, key sectors of the mining industry are dominated by a few enterprises, most of which are our customers. The loss of one or more of our significant customers or significantly reduced sales orders from significant customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The loss of key members of our management team could adversely affect our business. Our success substantially depends upon our ability to attract and retain qualified employees and upon the ability of senior management and other key employees to implement our business strategy and maintain and enhance our customer and supplier relationships. We believe there are only a limited number of available qualified chief executives in our industry. We rely substantially upon the services of our executive officers, and the loss of their services or the services of other members of our management team or our inability to attract or retain 29 Table of Contents other talented personnel could impede the further implementation of our business strategy, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to risks of conducting business in foreign countries, including emerging markets. We derive the majority of our sales from foreign markets where we have substantial operations. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we generated $1.9 billion, or approximately 71%, of our sales outside the United States (exports from the United States and sales by our foreign subsidiaries) compared to $1.8 billion, or 73%, for the year ended December 31, 2008. Various political, regulatory or economic factors, or changes in those factors, have the potential to adversely affect our international operations and our financial results. These factors principally include: • tariffs and price controls; • trade sanctions and embargos; • reduction in government subsidies; • import or export licensing requirements; • economic downturns, civil disturbances or political instability; • employment regulations; • nationalism; • regulations regarding repatriation of earnings; • ability to enforce contract and intellectual property rights; • availability of credit; • natural disasters; • national and international conflicts, including terrorist acts; • nationalization and expropriation; and • potentially burdensome taxation. In addition, a significant portion of our international business is conducted in emerging and developing markets located in Asia, Africa, South America and Eastern Europe. Many of the countries in these regions have developing legal and economic systems, which add a level of uncertainty to our operations in those countries relative to those that would be expected domestically. Our customers in the developing markets of China, India and Eastern Europe have exposed us the uncertainty associated with the developing governmental, legal and economic systems in those countries. We have recently finalized a joint venture with a local partner to expand our manufacturing capacity in China, which will further increase our exposure to the uncertainties in this emerging market. The above factors, and related unpredictability, could place our operations and business relationships in overseas markets at risk, which could materially adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. 30 Table of Contents We are subject to risks related to conducting business in foreign currencies. We are subject to foreign currency exchange risk because we sell a significant amount of our underground mining products in euros, while we sell most of our surface mining original equipment in United States dollars, and we report our combined consolidated results in United States dollars. As a result, an increase in the value of the United States dollar or the euro, relative to other nations’ currencies, would decrease the United States dollar or euro equivalent of our underground mining sales earned without decreasing the United States dollar or euro value of the expenses associated with its sales. Additionally, a portion of our aftermarket parts sales is denominated in the currency of the country in which the products are sold and the majority of our service sales are denominated in local currencies. Although a portion of the expenses of providing overseas services are denominated in local currencies, the cost of goods associated with overseas sales are generally incurred in United States dollars and euros. As a result, an increase in the value of the United States dollar or the euro relative to these nations’ currencies would decrease the United States dollar or euro equivalent of aftermarket sales earned abroad without decreasing the United States dollar or euro value of a portion of the expenses associated with overseas sales. Currency controls, devaluations, trade restrictions and other disruptions in currency convertibility and in the market for currency exchange could limit our ability to convert revenues earned abroad into United States dollars or euros in a timely manner. This could adversely affect our ability to service our United States dollar or euro indebtedness, fund our United States dollar or euro costs, finance capital expenditures and pay dividends on our common stock. Therefore, our future results of operations may be subject to increased volatility Regulations affecting the mining industry or electric utilities may reduce demand for our products and services. Our principal customers are mining companies. Many of these customers supply coal as a power generating source for the production of electricity in markets around the world. The operations of these mining companies are geographically diverse and are subject to or affected by a wide array of regulations in the jurisdictions in which they operate, including those with a direct impact on mining activities and those indirectly affecting their businesses, such as applicable environmental laws and regulations governing the operation of coal-fired power plants. As a result of changes in regulations and laws relating to the operation of mines, our customers’ mining operations could be disrupted or curtailed by governmental authorities. The high cost of compliance with mining and environmental regulations may also induce customers to discontinue or limit their mining operations, and may discourage companies from developing new mines. Additionally, government regulation of coal-fired power plants may adversely impact the demand for coal to the extent that such regulations cause electric utilities to select alternative energy sources and technologies as sources of electric power. Domestic and international initiatives to regulate greenhouse gas emissions, including carbon dioxide could depress coal consumption in Western economies. If demand for coal declines, demand for our products will also decline, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. 31 Table of Contents We may be adversely affected by environmental and safety regulations or concerns. We are subject to increasingly stringent environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate, including laws and regulations governing emissions to air, discharges to water and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of, or exposure to, hazardous materials. Although it is our intent to comply with such laws and regulations, we cannot assure you that we have always done so on a historical basis, or will continue to do so prospectively. If we are not in compliance with these laws and regulations, we may incur remediation obligations or other costs in excess of amounts reserved, or fines, penalties or suspension of production. We may be adversely impacted by costs, liabilities or claims with respect to existing or subsequently acquired operations, under either present laws and regulations or those that may be adopted or imposed in the future. Our operations are also subject to laws requiring the cleanup of contaminated property. If a release of hazardous substances occurs, or has occurred, at or from any of our current or former properties or at a landfill or another location where we have disposed of hazardous materials, we may be held liable for the contamination, and the amount of such liability could be material. In addition, increased environmental regulation of the mining industry in North America and overseas could increase costs to us or to our customers and adversely affect the sales of our products and future operating results. These requirements may change in the future in a manner that could require us to make capital and other expenditures, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. We must attract and retain skilled labor in order to maintain and increase our business. Our ability to operate profitably and expand our operations, including the realization of the desired benefits of our recent capacity expansion program, depends in part on our ability to attract and retain skilled manufacturing workers, equipment operators, engineers and other technical personnel. Also, our underground mining business will face the retirement of a large number of skilled employees over the next five to 10 years. As a result, our growth may be limited by the scarcity of skilled labor. Additionally, a significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers could result in a reduction in our skilled labor force, increases in the rates of wages we must pay or both. Further, we may be faced with increased training costs and reduced productivity as we train new employees. If our compensation costs increase or we cannot attract and retain skilled labor, including engineers, machinists and welders, our earnings could be reduced, and production capacity and growth potential could be impaired. Aspects of our operations are dependent on relationships with local partners in some countries. In certain countries we have formed relationships with local partners to manufacture, sell or service our products. For example, we have a commercial agreement with a local partner in India and we have recently finalized a joint venture with a local partner in China, each with respect to certain limited aspects of our operations in these countries. These and other countries may require us to use additional local partners in connection with our operations in such countries. The use of local partners may adversely impact our margins and 32 Table of Contents profitability in such countries and disputes with local partners may adversely impact our operations in the applicable countries. If we fail to offer technologically advanced equipment to our customers, demand for our products may be materially adversely affected. We believe that most of our mining industry customers are focused on improving automation, standardization and consolidation of equipment and mining operations. In this regard, we concentrate on producing technologically advanced equipment that allows our customers to conduct safe and cost-efficient operations. To remain competitive, we believe we must develop new and innovative products on an ongoing basis. If we are unable to continue developing new and innovative products that incorporate technological advancements and meet the evolving requirements of our customers, or if we are unable to successfully bring such products to market, or if our competitors produce and sell equipment that is more technologically advanced or otherwise better received in the marketplace than ours, the demand for our mining equipment could be materially adversely affected. Labor disruptions could adversely affect our operations. At December 31, 2009, approximately 2,000 of our employees were unionized (approximately 2,450 including Terex Mining). Our contract with the United Steelworkers of America representing hourly workers at our South Milwaukee facility expires in April 2013 and our contract with the United Steelworkers representing hourly workers at our Pulaski, Virginia facility expires in August 2011. Many of the collective bargaining agreements relating to our underground mining non-United States employees may be terminated by either the union or the employer association with a one to three month notice period (although these agreements will remain in full force and effect until a new agreement has been reached). After expiration of these agreements, we are not assured of being able to reach new agreements without a work stoppage or strike, and any new agreements may not be reached on terms satisfactory to us, may be on substantially different terms from our current agreements and may result in increased direct and indirect labor costs. A dispute between our employees and us could divert significant management time and attention and disrupt our operations, and the resulting adverse impact on our relationships with customers could reduce our revenue. Also, a few of our mine site operations and production and other facilities are located in areas of high union concentration or in nations with laws favorable to unionization, and, as a result, such operations and facilities are susceptible to union organizing activity. Additionally, our obligations under underground mining business labor agreements may prevent us from taking actions that we might otherwise deem prudent in connection with the operation of our underground mining business, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. In addition, the workforces of many of our suppliers and our transportation providers are unionized. If they are disrupted by labor issues, delivery of parts and materials to us could be reduced or delayed. Many of our customers have unionized work forces, and work stoppages experienced by our customers could cause us to lose sales or incur increased costs. 33 Table of Contents Our continued success depends in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property. Our future success depends in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We rely principally on nondisclosure agreements and other contractual arrangements and trade secret laws and, to a lesser extent, trademark and patent law, to protect our intellectual property, including jointly developed intellectual property. However, these measures could prove inadequate to protect our intellectual property from infringement by others or to prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights. In addition, the laws and enforcement mechanisms of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do United States laws. We expect that the expansion of our manufacturing capacity in China and potentially to other countries such as India or Brazil also may heighten our risk of intellectual property infringement due to the pervasive nature in those countries of independent firms called “will-fitters” that produce copies of the parts manufactured by us and other original equipment manufacturers. Our inability to protect our proprietary information and enforce intellectual property rights through infringement or other enforcement proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. We are in the process of implementing a global Enterprise Resource Planning (“ERP”) system in our surface mining segment. We are in the process of implementing a new global ERP system in our surface mining segment. This system will replace our surface mining segment’s existing operating and financial system. If the system is not implemented successfully and within budget or if the system does not perform in a satisfactory manner, it could be disruptive and or adversely affect our operations and results of operations, including our ability to report accurate and timely financial results. We may have to utilize significant cash to meet our unfunded pension obligations, and these obligations are subject to increase. A substantial portion of our United States employees participate in our defined benefit pension plans. At December 31, 2009, our unfunded pension liability for these plans totaled $13.8 million compared to $48.8 million at December 31, 2008. Declines in interest rates or the market values of the securities held by the plans, or other adverse changes, could materially increase the underfunded status of these plans and affect the level and timing of required cash contributions in 2010 and after. In addition, at December 31, 2009, we had $116.3 million in unfunded pension liabilities with respect to pension plans for certain non-United States employees, with no assets set aside to fund such obligations, compared to $105.1 million at December 31, 2008. Declines in interest rates or other adverse changes could materially increase the underfunded status of these plans. Our mining production capacity may not be sufficient to meet customer demand. Our backlog of firm orders was $1.9 billion at December 31, 2009. We have recently completed a multi-phase expansion program of our South Milwaukee facility, which has substantially increased our surface mining equipment production capacity. However, production capacity at all of our manufacturing locations may not be sufficient to satisfy customer demand for our surface mining products from time to time. If we are unable to commit to producing products for customers within the timeframes they require, then these 34 Table of Contents customers may seek to procure equipment from other sources to meet their project deadlines, which could adversely affect our future sales levels, profitability and cash flow. We are, and may be in the future, subject to product liability and other lawsuits related to past and current activities. The selling and servicing of complex, large scale surface mining equipment used in a variety of locations and climates, and integrating a variety of manufactured and purchased components entails an inherent risk of lawsuits and liability relating to the operation and performance of the equipment and the health and safety of the workers who operate and come into contact with it. We have been named as a co-defendant in numerous pending personal injury liability cases alleging damages caused by exposure to asbestos and other substances, and the particular circumstances of many of these cases are difficult to assess because the claims allege exposure to a variety of substances from various sources over varying historical periods and assert the culpability of multiple defendants. Our underground mining business is also subject to various product liability and personal injury claims, including those relating to alleged asbestos and silicosis exposure. These types of claims, as well as product liability claims in general, can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for long periods of time, regardless of the ultimate outcome. While we maintain product liability and other insurance to cover varying levels of claims of this nature, including varying levels of coverage for the historical periods during which the pending claims of which we are aware allege asbestos exposure, those policies are subject to deductibles and recovery limitations, and there are limitations on events covered by the policies. Also, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain insurance on acceptable terms in the future, if at all, or obtain insurance that will provide adequate coverage against potential future claims. These lawsuits and future lawsuits against us could be resolved in a manner that materially and adversely affects our product reputation, business, financial position and results of operations. If we are unable to purchase component parts or raw materials from key suppliers, the prices of component parts or raw materials rise materially, or the costs of shipping products rise materially, our business and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. We purchase all of our alternating current (“AC”) drives and certain electrical parts for our surface mining equipment pursuant to a 10-year agreement, which ends in February 2016, with Siemens Energy & Automation (“Siemens”). Delays, disruptions or other difficulties procuring parts from Siemens, or our inability to obtain parts from Siemens altogether could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We currently purchase motors, an important component of its room and pillar equipment, from one supplier. The loss of this supplier could cause a delay in manufacturing due to the time required to have motors of a new supplier approved and certified by the Mine Safety and Health Administration. The loss of this supplier could also result in a possible loss of sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We purchase components for our roof supports from three primary suppliers pursuant to written agreements. The loss of any of these three primary suppliers, or delays, disruptions or other difficulties procuring parts from these suppliers or from related raw material sources, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to timely produce our roof supports and other underground mining original equipment and, ultimately, could have a material adverse effect 35 Table of Contents on our business and results of operations. We also purchase track links, castings and forgings from suppliers with whom we have longstanding relationships. Although these are not sole source suppliers, the loss of these suppliers could affect our ability to maintain costs. If we are required to procure alternative sources of supply, our ability to supply parts to our customers when needed could be impaired, we could lose business and our margins and cash flow could be reduced. Also, because we maintain limited production input inventories, even brief unanticipated delays in delivery by suppliers, including those due to capacity constraints, labor disputes, impaired financial position of suppliers, weather emergencies or other natural disasters, may impair our ability to satisfy our customers and could adversely affect our operations. In addition, we use substantial quantities of steel in our production processes. If the price of steel or other raw materials increases and we are unable to recover those price increases, or if availability of certain types of steel decreases and we are not able to acquire sufficient quantities of this steel, we will experience reduced margins. Any significant future delays in obtaining production inputs and other supplies could result in our delay in delivering or producing products for our customers, which could subject us to contractual damage claims or otherwise harm our business and results of operations. In addition, there recently has been consolidation within the steelmaking industry, which could impede our ability to rely on competitive balance and longstanding business relationships to procure steel on favorable terms and in a timely manner. We also purchase component parts and raw materials on terms extended to us by our suppliers based on our overall credit rating. If our credit rating were to change adversely, our suppliers may not be willing or able to continue to extend favorable terms to us, which could negatively impact our cash flow or cause us to incur increased indebtedness under our revolving credit facility. Some of our contracts require us to bear all costs of shipping and handling to the customer’s site. Because of the size and weight of our products, these costs can be a significant portion of the total costs of a given contract. If transportation costs rise materially due to fuel prices or other factors, our gross margins could be reduced. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 