ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, results of operations and financial position are subject to a wide variety of risks, many of which are not exclusively within our control, which may cause our actual performance to differ materially from historical or projected future performance, including the risks that we identify below. In addition, other risks that are currently unknown to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. Risks Related to Our Business The industries we serve and our business are subject to significant cyclical fluctuations. The sale of mining equipment is cyclical in nature and sensitive to a variety of factors, including fluctuations in market prices for coal, copper, oil, iron ore and other minerals, as well as alternatives to these minerals, changes in general economic conditions, interest rates, our customers’ replacement or repair cycles, consolidation in the mining industry and competitive pressures. Many factors affect the supply and demand for coal, minerals and oil and thus may affect the sale of our products and services, including: • commodities prices and changes in those prices; • the levels of commodity production; • the levels of mineral inventories; • the expected cost of developing new reserves; • the cost of conducting mining operations; • the level of mining activity; • worldwide economic activity; • substitution of new or competing inputs and mining methods; • national government political requirements; • environmental regulation; and • tax policies. If demand for mining services or mining equipment utilization rates decrease significantly, then demand for our products and services (particularly demand for original equipment, which tends to be closely correlated with the strength of commodity markets and, as a result, tends to be more cyclical than aftermarket sales), will likely decrease. Future decreased demand for original equipment may impact our results of operations to a greater extent than decreased demand in prior periods since the total percentage of our sales derived from the sale of original equipment versus aftermarket parts and services increased as a result of the DBT acquisition. As a result of this cyclicality, we have experienced, and in the future could experience, extended periods of reduced sales and margins. Because our customers’ purchasing patterns are affected by a variety of factors beyond our control, our sales and operating results may fluctuate significantly from period to period. Given the large sales prices of our equipment, one or a limited number of machines may account for a substantial portion of our sales in any particular quarter or other period. Although we recognize sales on a percentage-of-completion basis for most of our original equipment, the timing of one or a small number of contracts in any particular period may nevertheless affect our operating results. In addition, our sales and gross profit may fluctuate depending upon the sizes and the requirements of the particular contracts we enter into in that period. 16 Table of Contents Changes in global financial markets and global economic conditions could adversely affect our business. Conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions affect our results of operations. The global financial crisis that increased in the fourth quarter of 2008 has caused extreme volatility and tightening in the global capital and credit markets. The decreased availability of credit or the inability to obtain third party financing could result in our customers deferring capital expenditures, which could adversely affect the demand for our mining equipment. Also, the deteriorating conditions in the global economy could lead to a global recession characterized by higher unemployment, lower consumer spending, reduced investment by businesses and reduced corporate earnings. This could result in our customers deferring capital expenditures, which could adversely affect the demand for our mining equipment. In addition, poor conditions in global financial markets or global or regional recessionary economic conditions could lead to the cancellation or delay of existing orders, difficulty in collecting outstanding accounts receivable and affect the financial viability of our suppliers, some of which we may consider key suppliers. The occurrence of any of these items individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We currently generate funds from our operations and utilize our revolving credit facilities to pay our operating expenses, fund our capital expenditures, pay dividends and fund our employee retirement benefit programs. If changing economic conditions negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows or increase the underfunding of our pension obligations, and the use of our revolving credit facilities is maximized, we may require access to capital and/or credit markets and our access to those markets may be limited, which could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A material disruption to our manufacturing plants could adversely affect our ability to generate revenue. We produce most of our surface mining equipment and aftermarket parts at our manufacturing plants in South Milwaukee and Milwaukee, Wisconsin, and most of our underground mining equipment and aftermarket parts at our manufacturing plants in Germany, the United States (Pennsylvania, Virginia and Alabama) and, to a lesser extent, in Poland, China and Australia. If operations at any of these facilities were to be disrupted as a result of equipment failures, natural disasters, work stoppages, power outages or other reasons, our business, financial position and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Any of these significant events could require us to make large unanticipated capital expenditures. Interruptions in production could increase our costs and delay our delivery of original equipment and parts in production. Production capacity limits could cause us to reduce or delay sales efforts until production capacity is available. All of our facilities are also subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to fires, explosions or adverse weather conditions. Lost sales or increased costs that we may experience during the disruption of operations may not be recoverable under our insurance policies, and longer-term business disruptions could result in a loss of customers. If this were to occur, our future sales levels, and therefore our future profitability and cash flow, could be materially adversely affected. We must attract and retain skilled labor in order to maintain and increase our business. Our ability to operate profitably and expand our operations, including the realization of the desired benefits of our current production capacity expansion program, depends in part on our ability to attract and retain skilled manufacturing workers, equipment operators, engineers and other technical personnel. Also, our underground mining business will face the retirement of a large number of skilled employees over the next five to ten years. As a result, our growth may be limited by the scarcity of skilled labor. Additionally, a significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers could result in a reduction in our skilled labor force, increases in the rates of wages we must pay or both. Further, we may be faced with increased training costs and reduced productivity as we train new employees. If our compensation costs increase or we cannot attract and retain skilled labor, including engineers, machinists and welders, our earnings could be reduced, and production capacity and growth potential could be impaired. 17 Table of Contents Our mining production capacity may not be sufficient to meet customer demand. We are currently operating near full capacity at our surface mining equipment manufacturing facilities. In addition, our backlog of firm orders for our surface mining products and services was $1.37 billion at December 31, 2008, compared to $804.8 million at December 31, 2007. We have substantially completed a multi-phase expansion program of our South Milwaukee facility, which will substantially increase our surface mining equipment production capacity. However, production capacity may not be sufficient to satisfy customer demand for our surface mining products from time to time. If we are unable to commit to producing products for its customers within the timeframes they require, then these customers may seek to procure equipment from other sources to meet their project deadlines, which could adversely affect our future sales levels, profitability and cash flow. If we are unable to purchase component parts or raw materials from key suppliers, the prices of component parts or raw materials rise materially, or the costs of shipping products rise materially, our business and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. We purchase all of our alternating current (“AC”) drives and certain electrical parts for our surface mining equipment pursuant to a 10-year agreement with Siemens Energy & Automation (“Siemens”). Delays, disruptions or other difficulties procuring parts from Siemens, or our inability to obtain parts from Siemens altogether could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We purchase components of our roof supports from three primary suppliers pursuant to written agreements. The loss of any of these three primary suppliers, or delays, disruptions or other difficulties procuring parts from these suppliers or from related raw material sources, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to timely produce our roof supports and other underground mining original equipment and, ultimately, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We also purchase track links, castings and forgings from suppliers with whom we have longstanding relationships. Although these are not sole source suppliers, the loss of these suppliers could affect our ability to maintain or lower costs. If we are required to procure alternative sources of supply, our ability to supply parts to our customers when needed could be impaired, we could lose business and our margins and cash flow could be reduced. Also, because we maintain limited production input inventories, even brief unanticipated delays in delivery by suppliers, including those due to capacity constraints, labor disputes, impaired financial position of suppliers, weather emergencies or other natural disasters, may impair our ability to satisfy our customers and could adversely affect our operations. In addition, we use substantial quantities of steel in our production processes. If the price of steel or other raw materials increases further and we are unable to recover those price increases, or if availability of certain types of steel decreases and we are not able to acquire sufficient quantities of this steel, we will experience reduced margins. Any significant future delays in obtaining production inputs and other supplies could result in our delay in delivering or producing products for our customers, which could subject us to contractual damage claims or otherwise harm our business and results of operations. In addition, there recently has been consolidation within the steelmaking industry, which could impede our ability to rely on competitive balance and longstanding business relationships to procure steel on favorable terms and in a timely manner. We also purchase component parts and raw materials on terms extended to us by our suppliers based on our overall credit rating. If our credit rating were to change adversely, our suppliers may not be willing or able to continue to extend favorable terms to us, which could negatively impact our cash flow or cause us to incur increased indebtedness under our revolving credit facility. Some of our contracts require us to bear all costs of shipping and handling to the customer’s site. Because of the size and weight of our products, these costs can be a significant portion of the total costs of a given contract. If transportation costs rise materially due to fuel prices or other factors, our margins could be reduced. 18 Table of Contents Our results of operations are dependent on the commodity price of coal and other conditions in the coal markets. In 2008, substantially all of our underground mining sales and approximately 29% of our surface mining original equipment sales were to coal mining customers. Many of these customers supply coal as fuel for the production of electricity in the United States and other countries. Government regulation of electric utilities and greenhouse gas emissions may adversely impact the demand for coal to the extent that such regulations cause or require such utilities to select alternative energy sources or technologies as a source of electric power. If a more economical form of electricity generation is discovered, developed or mandated, or if a current alternative source of energy such as nuclear, wind or solar power becomes more widely accepted or cost effective, the demand for our mining equipment could be adversely affected. In any given year, we rely on significant customers for a large percentage of our sales. Our business is dependent on securing and maintaining customers by promptly delivering reliable and high-performance products. We do not believe we are dependent upon any single customer; however, on an annual basis a single customer may account for a large percentage of our sales, particularly original equipment sales. In 2008, 2007 and 2006, BHP Billiton, our largest surface mining customer, accounted for approximately 11%, 9% and 13%, respectively, of our total surface mining sales. In 2008, New World Resources accounted for approximately 19% of our total underground mining sales. No one customer accounted for 10% or more of our total underground mining sales in 2007. In 2006, the Shenhua Group accounted for approximately 14% of DBT’s total sales. The products that we may sell to any particular customer depend on the size of that customer’s capital expenditure budget devoted to mining plans in a particular year and on the results of competitive bids for major projects. Additionally, our top five surface mining customers in each of 2008, 2007 and 2006 collectively accounted for approximately 43%, 27% and 40%, respectively, of our total surface mining sales and our top five underground mining customers collectively accounted for approximately 43% of our total underground mining sales in 2008. We believe these relatively high percentages reflect the recent consolidation within the mining industry. In addition, key sectors of the mining industry are dominated by a few enterprises, most of which are our customers. The loss of one or more of our significant customers or significantly reduced sales orders from significant customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The loss of key members of our management team could adversely affect our business. Our success substantially depends upon our ability to attract and retain qualified employees and upon the ability of senior management and other key employees to implement our business strategy and maintain and enhance our customer and supplier relationships. We believe there are only a limited number of available qualified chief executives in our industry. We rely substantially upon the services of our executive officers, and the loss of their services or the services of other members of our management team or our inability to attract or retain other talented personnel could impede the further implementation of our business strategy, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to risks of conducting business in foreign countries, including emerging markets. We derive the majority of our sales from foreign markets where we have substantial operations. During 2008, we generated $1.3 billion, or approximately 52%, of our sales outside the United States (exports from the United States and sales by our foreign subsidiaries) compared to $1.2 billion, or 72%, in 2007. Various political, regulatory or economic factors, or changes in those factors, have the potential to adversely affect our international operations and our financial results. These factors principally include: • tariffs and price controls; • trade sanctions and embargos; • reduction in government subsidies; 19 Table of Contents • import or export licensing requirements; • economic downturns, civil disturbances or political instability; • employment regulations; • nationalism; • regulations regarding repatriation of earnings; • ability to enforce contract and intellectual property rights; • availability of credit; • natural disasters; • national and international conflicts, including terrorist acts; • nationalization and expropriation; and • potentially burdensome taxation. In addition, a significant portion of our international business is conducted in emerging markets located in Asia, Africa and South America. Many of the countries in these regions have developing legal and economic systems, which add a level of uncertainty to our operations in those countries relative to those that would be expected domestically. The DBT acquisition has increased our sales to customers in the developing markets of China, India and Eastern Europe, which has increased our exposure to the uncertainty associated with the developing governmental, legal and economic systems in those countries. We also plan to expand our manufacturing capacity in China, and the expansion process and the subsequent operation of the manufacturing facility will further increase our exposure to the uncertainties in this emerging market. The above factors, and related unpredictability, could place the value of our operations and business relationships in overseas markets at risk, which could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are subject to risks related to conducting business in foreign currencies. We are subject to foreign currency exchange risk because we sell a significant amount of our underground mining products in euros, while we sell most of our surface mining products in United States dollars, and we report our combined consolidated results in United States dollars. As a result, an increase in the value of the United States dollar or the euro, relative to other nations’ currencies, would decrease the United States dollar or euro equivalent of our underground mining sales earned without decreasing the United States dollar or euro value of the expenses associated with its sales. Additionally, most of our aftermarket parts sales in Australia, South Africa and Brazil are denominated in the currencies of those nations, and the majority of our service sales are denominated in these and other local currencies. Although a portion of the expenses of providing overseas services are denominated in local currencies, the cost of goods associated with overseas sales are generally incurred in United States dollars and euros. As a result, an increase in the value of the United States dollar or the euro relative to these nations’ currencies would decrease the United States dollar or euro equivalent of aftermarket sales earned abroad without decreasing the United States dollar or euro value of a portion of the expenses associated with overseas sales. Currency controls, devaluations, trade restrictions and other disruptions in currency convertibility and in the market for currency exchange could limit our ability to convert revenues earned abroad into United States dollars or euros in a timely way. This could adversely affect our ability to service our United States dollar or euro indebtedness, fund our United States dollar or euro costs, finance capital expenditures and pay dividends on our common stock. Therefore, our future results of operations may be subject to increased volatility. 20 Table of Contents We operate in a highly competitive industry. Methods of competition in our business are diverse and include price, customer relationships, lead times, operating costs, productivity of equipment, design and performance, technology, reliability, warranty, service, delivery and other commercial factors. In electric mining shovels and draglines, we compete with P&H, and for certain applications our electric mining shovels may also compete against hydraulic shovels and small electric shovels made by other manufacturers. In the rotary blasthole drills market we compete with several worldwide manufacturers. In the aftermarket business, we compete with several worldwide manufacturers and numerous independent firms that produce copies of the parts manufactured by us and other original equipment manufacturers. In the underground mining segment, we compete with Joy Global’s Joy Mining Machinery division for the sale of continuous miners, longwall shearers, powered roof supports and other underground mining equipment, as well as with a number of both established and emerging worldwide manufacturers of such equipment. In China and Eastern Europe, we also face competition from regional and domestic equipment manufacturers, including manufacturers owned directly or indirectly by governmental entities. For example, in China there is much pressure to increase domestic purchases for roof supports and to reduce the cost of roof supports which are imported. This circumstance could make it more difficult for us to compete effectively in China or realize some of the expected potential benefits of the DBT acquisition. As those markets and markets in other industrialized countries continue to develop, this competition may increase. Certain of our competitors may have greater financial, marketing, manufacturing or distribution resources than we do. Demand for our products may be affected by our ability to respond to downward pricing pressure from our competitors or to continue to provide shorter lead time and quicker delivery of our products than our competitors. We cannot assure you that our products will continue to compete successfully with those of our competitors or that we will be able to retain our customer base or improve or maintain our profit margins on customer sales. If we are unable to maintain our profit margins, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If we fail to offer technologically advanced equipment to our customers, demand for our products may be materially adversely affected. We believe that our mining industry customers are focused on improving automation, standardization and consolidation of equipment and mining operations. In that regard, we concentrate on producing technologically advanced equipment that allows our customers to conduct safe and cost-efficient operations. To remain competitive, we believe we must develop new and innovative products on an ongoing basis. If we are unable to continue developing new and innovative products that incorporate technological advancements and meet the evolving requirements of our customers, or if we are unable to successfully bring such products to market, or if our competitors produce and sell equipment that is more technologically advanced or otherwise better received in the marketplace than ours, the demand for our mining equipment could be materially adversely affected. Regulations affecting the mining industry or electric utilities may reduce demand for our products and services. Our principal customers are mining companies. Many of these customers supply coal as a power generating source for the production of electricity in markets around the world. The operations of these mining companies are geographically diverse and are subject to or affected by a wide array of regulations in the jurisdictions in which they operate, including those with a direct impact on mining activities and those indirectly affecting their businesses, such as applicable environmental laws and regulations governing the operation of coal-fired power plants. As a result of changes in regulations and laws relating to the operation of mines, our customers’ mining operations could be disrupted or curtailed by governmental authorities. The high cost of compliance with mining and environmental regulations may also induce customers to discontinue or limit their mining operations, and may discourage companies from developing new mines. Additionally, government regulation of coal-fired power plants may adversely impact the demand for coal to the extent that such regulations cause electric utilities to select alternative energy sources and technologies as sources of electric power. Domestic and international 21 Table of Contents initiatives to regulate mercury emissions and initiatives targeting acid rain or greenhouse gas emissions could significantly depress coal consumption in Western economies. If demand for coal declines, demand for our products will also decline, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be adversely affected by environmental and safety regulations or concerns. We are subject to increasingly stringent environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate, including laws and regulations governing emissions to air, discharges to water and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of, or exposure to, hazardous materials. We cannot assure you that we have always on a historical basis complied, or will continue to comply, with these requirements. If we are not in compliance with these laws and regulations, we may incur remediation obligations or other costs in excess of amounts reserved, or fines, penalties or suspension of production. We may be adversely impacted by costs, liabilities or claims with respect to existing or subsequently acquired operations, under either present laws and regulations or those that may be adopted or imposed in the future. Our operations are also subject to laws requiring the cleanup of contaminated property. If a release of hazardous substances occurs, or has occurred, at or from any of our current or former properties or at a landfill or another location where we have disposed of hazardous materials, we may be held liable for the contamination, and the amount of such liability could be material. In addition, increased environmental regulation of the mining industry in North America and overseas could increase costs to us or to our customers and adversely affect the sales of our products and future operating results. These requirements may change in the future in a manner that could require us to make capital and other expenditures, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. We are, and may be in the future, subject to product liability and other lawsuits related to past and current activities. The selling and servicing of complex, large scale surface mining equipment used in a variety of locations and climates, and integrating a variety of manufactured and purchased components entails an inherent risk of lawsuits and liability relating to the operation and performance of the equipment and the health and safety of the workers who operate and come into contact with it. For example, at December 31, 2008, we have been named as a co-defendant in numerous pending personal injury liability cases alleging damages caused by exposure to asbestos and other substances, and the particular circumstances of many of these cases are difficult to assess because the claims allege exposure to a variety of substances from various sources over varying historical periods and assert the culpability of multiple defendants. Our underground mining business is also subject to various product liability and personal injury claims, including those relating to alleged asbestos and silicosis exposure. These types of claims, as well as product liability claims in general, can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for long periods of time, regardless of the ultimate outcome. While we maintain product liability and other insurance to cover varying levels of claims of this nature, including varying levels of coverage for the historical periods during which the pending claims of which we are aware allege asbestos exposure, those policies are subject to deductibles and recovery limitations, and there are limitations on events covered by these policies. Also, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain insurance on acceptable terms in the future, if at all, or obtain insurance that will provide adequate coverage against potential future claims. These lawsuits and future lawsuits against us could be resolved in a manner that materially and adversely affects our product reputation, business, financial position and results of operations. Labor disruptions could adversely affect our operations. At December 31, 2008, approximately 2,800 of our employees were unionized. Our contract with the United Steelworkers of America representing hourly workers at our South Milwaukee and Milwaukee facilities expires 22 Table of Contents in April 2013 and our contract with the United Steelworkers representing hourly workers at our Pulaski, Virginia facility expires in August 2011. Many of the collective bargaining agreements relating to our underground mining non-United States employees may be terminated by either the union or the employer association with a one to three month notice period (although these agreements will remain in full force and effect until a new agreement has been reached). After expiration of these agreements, we are not assured of being able to reach new agreements without a work stoppage or strike, and any new agreements may not be reached on terms satisfactory to us, may be on substantially different terms from our current agreements and may result in increased direct and indirect labor costs. A dispute between our employees and us could divert significant management time and attention and disrupt our operations, and the resulting adverse impact on our relationships with customers could reduce our revenue. Also, a few of our mine site operations and production and other facilities are located in areas of high union concentration or in nations with laws favorable to unionization, and, as a result, such operations and facilities are susceptible to union organizing activity. Additionally, our obligations under underground mining business labor agreements may prevent us from taking actions that we might otherwise deem prudent in connection with the operation of our underground mining business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. In addition, the workforces of many of our suppliers and our transportation providers are unionized. If they are disrupted by labor issues, delivery of parts and materials to us could be reduced or delayed. Many of our customers have unionized work forces, and work stoppages experienced by our customers could cause us to lose sales or incur increased costs. We may have to utilize significant cash to meet our unfunded pension obligations, and these obligations are subject to increase. A substantial portion of our United States employees participate in our defined benefit pension plans, and we also provide certain postretirement benefits. At December 31, 2008, our unfunded pension and postretirement benefit liability totaled $68.0 million compared to $34.7 million at December 31, 2007. Continued declines in interest rates or the market values of the securities held by the plans, or other adverse changes, could materially increase the underfunded status of our plans and affect the level and timing of required cash contributions in 2009 and after. In addition, our underground mining segment had $105.1 million in unfunded pension liabilities with respect to its employees, with no assets set aside to fund such obligations, at December 31, 2008 compared to $113.2 million at December 31, 2007. Our continued success depends in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property. Our future success depends in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We rely principally on nondisclosure agreements and other contractual arrangements and trade secret laws and, to a lesser extent, trademark and patent law, to protect our intellectual property, including jointly developed intellectual property. However, these measures could prove inadequate to protect our intellectual property from infringement by others or to prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights. In addition, the laws and enforcement mechanisms of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do United States laws. We expect that the expansion of our manufacturing capacity in China and potentially to other countries such as India or Brazil also may heighten our risk of intellectual property infringement due to the pervasive nature in those countries of independent firms called “will-fitters” that produce copies of the parts manufactured by us and other original equipment manufacturers. Our inability to protect our proprietary information and enforce intellectual property rights through infringement or other enforcement proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Because of our debt level and debt service obligations, we may have less cash flow available for our business operations, we could become increasingly vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions and interest rate trends, and our ability to obtain future financing may be limited. We have a credit facility which supports our current and future working capital needs, operating needs and our capital expenditure plan. 23 Table of Contents Our long-term debt, less current maturities, at December 31, 2008 was $501.8 million compared to $526.7 million at December 31, 2007. Our ability to make required payments of principal and interest on our increased debt levels will depend on the future performance of our combined businesses, which, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive and other factors that are beyond our control. In addition, our credit facilities contain financial and restrictive covenants that limit our ability to, among other things, borrow additional funds or take advantage of business opportunities. Our failure to comply with such covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all our indebtedness or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and debt service capability. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Description of Credit Facilities” in this Form 10-K. Our increased level of debt and the restrictive covenants contained in our credit facilities could have important consequences for our business, results of operations and financial position, including: • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions and detracting from our ability to successfully withstand a downturn in our markets or the economy generally; • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to required payments on debt, thereby reducing the availability of such cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, manufacturing capacity expansion, additional business opportunities and other general corporate activities; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future to fund working capital, capital expenditures, manufacturing capacity expansion, additional business opportunities and other general corporate requirements; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets we serve; • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to less leveraged competitors; and • making us vulnerable to increases in interest rates because a portion of the debt under our credit facilities will bear interest at variable rates. We are required to fulfill DBT’s obligations under a collective bargaining agreement, which obligations place certain restrictions on our underground mining business for a period of time. We are required to fulfill certain obligations under a collective bargaining agreement covering our employees that were acquired in the DBT acquisition. We are not allowed to, among other things, • move DBT’s corporate headquarters from Lünen, Germany prior to December 31, 2009; • with certain exceptions, terminate more than 30 DBT employees per year prior to December 31, 2010; or • dispose of DBT’s German, United States or Australian business units prior to December 31, 2009. If DBT’s order intake materially decreases from the order amounts set forth in the business plan during two consecutive fiscal quarters, and negotiations to find a mutually agreed solution which is acceptable to both us and DBT’s employees are unsuccessful, DBT would be able to terminate the collective bargaining agreement. On February 18, 2008, we entered into an addendum to the Share Purchase Agreement whereby in consideration of receipt of 3,000,000 euros for the payment of severance packages for certain employees, we would refrain from exercising the right to terminate the collective bargaining agreement until December 31, 2009. The collective bargaining agreement otherwise terminates on December 31, 2010. Additionally, to facilitate the DBT acquisition, we entered into a Shareholders’ Agreement with HMS Hamburg Trust GmbH (“Hamburg Trust”), a German domiciled special purpose financial intermediary. Under 24 Table of Contents the terms of the Shareholders’ Agreement, Hamburg Trust acquired non-voting equity securities (with no rights to cash flows or dividends) of DBT Holdings GmbH, which is the company that purchased the shares of DBT from RAG Coal International AG pursuant to the Share Purchase Agreement. Pursuant to that Shareholders’ Agreement, we agreed with Hamburg Trust that, among other things, we would not take action that would result in a breach of or deviation from the collective bargaining agreement without the consent of Hamburg Trust. These obligations may prevent us from taking actions that we might otherwise deem prudent in connection with the operation of our underground mining segment, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 