ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information contained in this report. Our business and our securities involve a high degree of risk. If we do not successfully commercialize our CodecSys technology, we may never achieve profitability, retire our convertible debt or be able to raise future capital. It is imperative that we successfully commercialize our CodecSys technology. We continue to develop this technology for a variety of applications. We have never been involved in a development project of the size and breadth that is involved with CodecSys and none of our management has ever been involved with a software development project. Management may lack the expertise and we may not have the financial resources needed for successful development of this technology. Furthermore, commercialization and future applications of the CodecSys technology are expected to require additional capital estimated to be approximately $2.0 million annually for the foreseeable future, although we spent significantly more than this for development in 2009. This estimate will increase or decrease depending on specific opportunities and available funding. If we are unsuccessful in our CodecSys development and commercialization efforts, it is highly doubtful we will achieve profitable operations, retire our existing convertible indebtedness or be able to raise additional funding in the future. There is substantial doubt about our abi lity to continue as a “going concern.” Our current independent registered public accounting firm, in its report dated March 31, 2010, with respect to our financial statements as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and for each of the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, included a “going concern” qualification. As discussed in Note 3 to the audited financial statements, we have incurred significant losses and used cash from operations for each of the two years ended December 31, 2009. Because of these conditions, our independent auditors have raised substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We need additional capital. If additional capital is not available, we may have to curtail or cease operations. In order to continue our operations, we need additional funding. Our monthly operating expenses currently exceed our monthly net sales by approximately $450,000 per month. This amount could increase significantly. We expect our operating expenses will continue to outpace our net sales until we are able to generate additional revenue from our marketing efforts with channel partners or other revenue 11 sources. We must continue to rely on external funding until our operations become profitable. We believe external funding may be difficult to obtain, particularly given the prevailing financial market conditions. If sufficient capital is not available to us, we will be requir ed to pursue one or a combination of the following remedies: significantly reduce development, commercialization or other operating expenses; sell part or all of our assets; or terminate operations. The existing turbulence and illiquidity in the credit and financial markets are continuing challenges that have generally made potential funding sources more difficult to access, less reliable and more expensive. These market conditions have made the management of our own liquidity significantly more challenging. A further deterioration in the credit and financial markets or a prolonged period without improvement could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital. We may not be able to repay our outstanding convertible notes when they become due. The maturity date o f our $15.0 million senior secured convertible note has been conditionally extended to December 21, 2011 pursuant to an amendment and extension agreement dated March 26, 2010, or the note amendment. If we are unable to successfully raise at least $6.0 million in equity financing prior to September 30, 2010, then the maturity date of this note will revert to its original maturity date of December 21, 2010. Our $1.0 million unsecured convertible note is due on December 22, 2010. In order to repay our outstanding convertible notes, we believe we will need to secure additional debt or equity financing. If we are unable to repay our $15.0 million senior secured convertible note when it becomes due, we may face possible foreclosure on our assets by the note holder, bankruptcy protection or liquidation. Because the note is secured by all of our assets, any foreclosure could result in the loss of our business and a complete loss of investment by our shareholders. Under the terms of the note amendment, the $15.0 million senior secured convertible note was also amended to preclude any principal payment of our $1.0 million unsecured convertible note without the written consent of the senior secured convertible note holder. Therefore, unless the senior secured convertible note holder provides consent, of which there can be no assurance, we will be precluded from repaying the unsecured note when it becomes due on December 22, 2010. We have sustained and may continue to sustain substantial losses. We have sustained operating losses in each of the last six years. Through December 31, 2009, our accumulated deficit was $93,828,194. Although we realized approximately the same revenues in 2009 as in 2008, we continue to sustain losses on a quarterly and annua l basis. Our success depends on adoption of our CodecSys technology by OEMs and end-users. The success of our CodecSys technology depends on the adoption of this technology by original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, like IBM and HP, as well as end-users. The OEM qualification and adoption process is complex, time-consuming and unpredictable. Furthermore, OEMs may elect to maintain their relationships with incumbent technology providers, even when presented with technology that may be superior to the incumbent technology. Significant delays in the development or OEM adoption of CodecSys will adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and prospects. 12 Our continued losses may impact our relationships with OEMs and customers. Our continued losses may impact our relationships with existing and potential OEMs and customers. OEMs may be reluctant to partner with us or present our technology in conjunction with their product offerings if they believe our financial condition is marginal or in jeopardy. OEMs and prospective customers may delay adoption of our CodecSys technology and other products if they believe we are not financially sound enough to support our technology or other product offerings. Covenant restrictions contained in our outstanding convertible notes may limit our ability to obtain additional capital and to operate our business. Our $15.0 million senior secured convertible note and our $1.0 million unsecured convertible note contain, among other things, covenants that may restrict our ability to obtain additional capital or to operate our business. For example, (i) the senior secured convertible note prohibits us from paying any dividends unless we obtain the prior written consent of the holder of such note; (ii) the senior secured convertible note and the unsecured convertible note contain anti-dilution provisions; and (iii) the securities purchase agreement, under which the senior secured convertible note was issued, granted rights of first refusal to participate in any future funding to the holder of the note purchased thereunder. Even if we are able to obtain additional capital, such covenants could result in substantial dilution to our existing shareholders. Furthermore, a breach of any of the covenants contained in the convertible note s could result in a default under the notes, in which event the note holders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable, which would require us to secure additional debt or equity financing to repay the indebtedness or to seek bankruptcy protection or liquidation. Adverse economic or other market conditions could reduce the purchase of our services by existing and prospective customers, which would harm our business. Our business is impacted from time to time by changes in general economic, business and international conditions and other similar factors. Adverse economic or other market conditions negatively affect the business spending of existing and prospective customers. In adverse market times, our network and other services may not be deemed critical for these customers. Therefore, our servi ces are often viewed as discretionary and may be deferred or eliminated in times of limited business spending, thereby harming our business. The recent recession and market turmoil present considerable risks and challenges. These risks and challenges have reached unprecedented levels and have significantly diminished overall confidence in the national economy, upon which we are dependent. Such factors could have an adverse impact on our business and prospects in ways that are not predictable or that we may fail to anticipate. Our systems of internal operational and financial controls may not be effective. We establish and maintain systems of internal operational and financial controls that provide us with critical information. These systems are not foolproof, and are subje ct to various inherent limitations, including cost, judgments used in decision-making, assumptions about the likelihood of future events, the soundness of our systems, the possibility of human error, and the risk of fraud. Moreover, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions and the risk that the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may deteriorate over time. Because of these limitations, any system of internal controls or procedures may not be successful in preventing all errors or fraud or in making all material information known in a timely manner to the appropriate levels of management. We have previously experienced significant deficiencies in our required disclosure controls and procedures regarding the updating of certain accounting pronouncements and the reporting of current information required to be filed with the SEC. We have also experienced a sign ificant deficiency and a material weakness in our required disclosure controls and procedures regarding our accounting entries and financial statements, which resulted in the restatement of one accounting period. Any future deficiency, weakness, malfunction or 13 inadequacy related to internal operational or financial control systems or procedures could produce inaccurate and unreliable information that may harm our business. We may be unable to respond adequately to rapid changes in technology. The markets for private communication networks and video en coder systems are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions. The introduction of new technology and products and the emergence of new industry standards not only impacts our ability to compete, but could also render our products, services and CodecSys technology uncompetitive or obsolete. If we are unable to adequately respond to changes in technology and standards, we will not be able to serve our clients effectively. Moreover, the cost to modify our services, products or infrastructure in order to adapt to these changes could be substantial and we may not have the financial resources to fund these expenses. We face intense competition that could harm our business. The communications industry is extremely competitive. We compete with numerous competitors who are mu ch larger than us and have greater financial and other resources. With respect to video conferencing, we compete with Sony, Polycom, Tandberg and others. In the satellite network and services segment, we compete with Convergent Media Systems, Globecast, IBM, Cisco, TeleSat Canada and others. Our competitors have established distribution channels and significant marketing and sales resources. Competition results in reduced operating margins for our business and may cause us to lose clients and/or prevent us from gaining new clients critical for our success. There are several additional major market sectors in which we plan to compete with our CodecSys technology, all with active competitors. These sectors include the basic codec technology market, the corporate enterprise network market and small business streaming media market. These are sectors where we may compete by providing direct services. &n bsp;Competition in these new market areas will also be characterized by intense competition with much larger and more powerful companies, such as Microsoft and Yahoo, which are already in the video compression and transmission business. Many of these competitors already have an established customer base with industry standard technology, which we must overcome to be successful. On a technology basis, CodecSys competition varies by market sector, with codecs and codec suppliers like Microsoft Windows Media Player, Real Networks' Real Player, Apple QuickTime, MPEG2, MPEG4, On2, DivX and many others. There are several companies, including Akamai, Inktomi, Activate and Loudeye, which utilize different codec systems. These companies specialize in encoding, hosting and streaming content services primarily for news/entertainment clients with large consumer audiences. All are larger and have greater financial resources than we have. If we fail to hire additional specialized personnel or retain our key personnel in the future, we will not have the ability to successfully commercialize our technology or manage our business. Notwithstanding our recent reduction in personnel, we still need to hire additional specialized personnel to successfully commercialize our CodecSys technology. If we are unable to hire or retain qualified software engineers and project managers, our ability to complete further development and commercialization efforts will be significantly impaired. Our success is also dependent upon the efforts and abilities of our management team. If we lose the services of certain of our current management team members, we may not be able to find qualified replacements which would harm the continuation and management of our business. Our revenue is dependent upon the sales efforts of others. We are dependent upon the sales and marketing efforts of IBM, HP and other third-party businesses in order to derive licensing revenue from our CodecSys technology. Such businesses may not continue 14 their sales efforts which would adversely affect our potential licensing fees. We are not able to control the sales and marketing efforts of these third parties. Limited revenues from our historical sources make us even more dependent upon the sales efforts of others. Given the curren t recession and market developments, third-party businesses may scale back on sales efforts which could significantly harm our business and prospects. We rely heavily on a few significant customers and if we lose any of these significant customers, our business may be harmed. A small number of customers account for a large percentage of our revenue. Our business model relies upon generating new sales to existing and new customers. Sales revenues from our three largest customers accounted for approximately 81% of total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009 and 50% of total revenues for the year ended December 31 2008. The three largest customers in 2009 are not the same as the three largest customers in 2008 In 2008, we lost two of what had been our three largest customers, although the contract for one of those customers did n ot expire until the end of 2008. We secured a contract with another large national organization, which replaced those customers we lost in 2008 and it is now our largest customer. Any material reduction in revenues generated from that customer could harm our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Our largest customers may not continue to purchase our services and may decrease their level of purchases. Any material reduction in revenues generated from any one of our largest customers could harm our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Our largest customers may not continue to purchase our services and may decrease their level of purchases. To the extent that our largest customer reduces its reliance on us or terminates its relationship with us, revenues would decline substantially, which would harm our business, unless we can replace that customer with another similarly large customer. There is significant uncertainty regarding our patent and proprietary technology protection. Our success is dependent upon our CodecSys technology and other intellectual property rights. If we are unable to protect and enforce these intellectual property rights, competitors will have the ability to introduce competing products that are similar to ours. If this were to occur, our revenues, market share and operating results would suffer. To date, we have relied primarily on a combination of patent, copyright, trade secret, and trademark laws, and nondisclosure and other contractual restrictions on copying and distribution to protect our proprietary technology. Our initial U.S. patent related to our CodecSys technology was granted by the PTO in August 2007 and three additional patents related to applications of the technology were subsequently issued by the PTO. As of March 1, 2010, we also had eight issued foreign patents and 25 pending U.S. and foreign patent applications. If we fail to deter misappropriation of our proprietary information or if we are unable to detect unauthorized use of our proprietary information, then our revenues, market share and operating results will suffer. The laws of some countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Furthermore, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. This litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources that would harm our business. Our products could infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, which may subject us to future litigation and cause financ ial harm to our business. To date, we have not been notified that our services, products and technology infringe the proprietary rights of third parties, but there is the risk that third parties may claim infringement by us with respect to current or future operations. We expect software developers will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in the industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. Any of these claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming to defend, result in costly litigation, divert management’s attention and resources, cause product shipment delays, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. These royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us. A successful claim 15 against us of infringement and failure or inability to license the infringed or similar technology on favorable terms would harm our business. Our common stock is considered “penny stock” which may make selling the common stock difficult. Our common stock is considered to be a “penny stock” under the definitions in Rules 15g-2 through 15g-6 promulgated under Section 15(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Under the rules, stock is considered “penny stock” if: (i) the stock trades at a price less than $5.00 per share; (ii) it is not traded on a “r ecognized” national exchange; (iii) it is not quoted on the Nasdaq Stock Market, or even if quoted, has a price less than $5.00 per share; or (iv) is issued by a company with net tangible assets less than $2.0 million, if in business more than a continuous three years, or with average revenues at less than $6.0 million for the past three years. The principal result or effect of being designated a “penny stock” is that securities broker-dealers cannot recommend our stock but must trade it on an unsolicited basis. Section 15(g) of the Exchange Act and Rule 15g-2 promulgated thereunder by the SEC require broker-dealers dealing in penny stocks to provide potential investors with a document disclosing the risks of penny stocks and to obtain a manually signed and dated written receipt of the document before effecting any transaction in a penny stock for the investor’s account. Potential investors in our common stoc k are urged to obtain and read such disclosure carefully before purchasing any shares that are deemed to be “penny stocks.” Moreover, Rule 15g-9 requires broker-dealers in penny stocks to approve the account of any investor for transactions in such stocks before selling any penny stock to that investor. This procedure requires the broker-dealer to (i) obtain from the investor information concerning his or her financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives; (ii) reasonably determine, based on that information, that transactions in penny stocks are suitable for the investor and that the investor has sufficient knowledge and experience as to be reasonably capable of evaluating the risks of penny stock transactions; (iii) provide the investor with a written statement setting forth the basis on which the broker-dealer made the determination in (ii) above; and (iv) receive a signed and dated copy of such statement from the investor, confirming that it accurately reflects the investor’s financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives. Compliance with these requirements may make it more difficult for holders of our common stock to resell their shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them in the market or otherwise. Trading in our securities could be subject to extreme price fluctuations that could cause the value of your investment to decrease. Our stock price has fluctuated significantly in the past and could continue to do so in the future. Our stock is thinly-traded, which means investors will have limited opportunities to sell their shares of common stock in the open market. Limited trading of our common stock also contributes to more volatile price fluctuations. The market price of our common stock is also subject to extreme fluctuations because of the nature of the CodecSys technology and the potential for large-scale acceptance or rejection of our technology in the marketplace. Given these fluctuations, an investment in our stock could lose value. A significant drop in our stock price could expose us to the risk of securities class action lawsuits. Defending against such lawsuits could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, thereby causing an investment in our stock to lose additional value. Future sales of our common stock could cause our stock price to decrease. Substantial sales of our common stock in the public market, or the perception by the market that such sales could occur, could lower our stock price. As of March 1, 2010, we had 39,990,293 shares of common stock outstanding. As of March 1, 2010, stock options, including options gran ted to our employees, and warrants to purchase an aggregate of 13,167,337 shares of our common stock were issued and outstanding, a substantial portion of which were fully exercisable. As of March 1, 2010, notes convertible into 3,675,153 shares of our common stock were issued and outstanding. As of March 1, 2010, we had granted restricted stock units to members of our Board of Directors and others, which may 16 be settled at various time in the future by the issuance of 885,000 shares of common stock. In addition, on or before April 2, 2010, we will issue 1,000,000 shares of our common stock to the holder of our senior secured convertible note in exchange for the conditioned extension of th e maturity date of such note. Future sales of our common stock, or the availability of our common stock for sale, may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Any stock ownership interest may be substantially diluted by future issuances of securities. We may issue shares of our common stock to holders of outstanding convertible notes, stock options and warrants. The conversion of the convertible notes and the exercise of options and warrants into shares of our common stock will be dilutive to shareholders. We also have offered and expect to continue to offer stock options to our employees and others, and have approximately 1,656,179 shares of common stock available for future issuance under our 2004 long-term incentive stock option plan and 2,865,000 shares of common stock available for future issuance under our 2 008 equity incentive plan. To the extent that future stock options are granted and ultimately exercised, there will be further dilution to shareholders. We have never paid dividends and do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the future, so any return on an investment in our common stock will depend on the market price of the stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to finance our operations. The terms and conditions of our convertible notes restrict and limit payments or distributions in respect of our common stock. The return on any investment in our common stock will depend on the future market price of our common stock and not on any potential dividends. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF CO MMENTS None. 