Item 1A. Risk Factors U.S. and international economic conditions and credit markets pose challenges for the Company and could adversely affect the results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. The Company is currently operating in a challenging and uncertain economic environment, both in the local markets it serves and in the broader national and international economies. A further deterioration of national or international economic conditions could adversely affect the financial condition and operating performance of financial institutions, including by reducing the value of the Company’s securities portfolio, and could increase the regulatory scrutiny of financial institutions. A further deterioration of local economic conditions could lead to further declines in real estate values and home sales and increases in the financial stress on borrowers and unemployment rates, all of which could lead to increases in loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures and reductions in loan collateral value. Such a further deterioration of local economic conditions could cause the level of loan losses to exceed the level the Company has provided in its allowance for loan losses which, in turn, would reduce the Company’s earnings. Global credit market conditions could continue to be disrupted and volatile. Although the Company remains well capitalized and has not suffered any liquidity issues, the cost and availability of funds may be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets. Continued turbulence in the U.S. and international markets and economy may adversely affect the Company’s liquidity, financial condition and profitability. The downgrade of the U.S. credit rating and Europe’s debt crisis could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and liquidity. Standard & Poor’s lowered its long term sovereign credit rating on the United States of America from AAA to AA+ in 2011. A further downgrade or a downgrade by other rating agencies could have a material adverse impact on financial markets and economic conditions in the United States and worldwide. Any such adverse impact could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the possibility that certain European Union (EU) member states will default on their debt obligations has negatively impacted economic conditions and global markets. The continued uncertainty over the outcome of international and the EU’s financial support programs and the possibility that other EU member states may experience similar financial troubles could further disrupt global markets. The negative impact on economic conditions and global markets could also have a material adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. The Company is subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates may negatively affect its financial performance. The Company’s profitability depends in substantial part on its net interest margin, which is the difference between the rates received on loans and investments and the rates paid for deposits and other sources of funds. The net interest margin depends on many factors that are partly or completely outside of the Company’s control, including competition; federal economic, monetary and fiscal policies; and economic conditions. Changes in interest rates affect operating performance and financial condition. The Company tries to minimize its exposure to interest rate risk, but it is unable to completely eliminate this risk. Because of the differences in the maturities and repricing characteristics of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Accordingly, fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect the Company’s net interest margin and, in turn, its profitability. In addition, the FRB’s Federal Open Market Committee has stated that it will keep the federal funds target rate at 0%-0.25% until economic and labor conditions (as indicated by the unemployment rate) improve, which is currently expected to be until 2015. Even though such a continuance of accommodative monetary policy could allow the Company to continue to reprice fixed-rate deposits at lower rates, sustained low interest rates could put further pressure on the yields generated by the Company’s loan portfolio and on the Company’s net interest margin. At December 31, 2012, based on scheduled maturities only, the Company’s balance sheet was liability sensitive at the one year time frame and, as a result, its net interest margin will tend to decrease in a rising interest rate environment and increase in a declining interest rate environment. - 10 - Index In addition, any substantial and prolonged increase in market interest rates could reduce the Company’s customers’ desire to borrow money or adversely affect their ability to repay their outstanding loans by increasing their credit costs. Interest rate changes could also affect the fair value of the Company’s financial assets and liabilities. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect the Company’s net interest margin, asset quality, loan origination volume, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Continued declines in loans outstanding could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s operating results and financial condition. If quality loan demand does not increase and the Company’s loan portfolio continues to decline, the Company expects that excess liquidity will continue to be invested in marketable securities. Because loans typically yield higher returns than the Company’s investment portfolio, a continued shift towards investments in the Company’s asset mix would likely result in a continued overall reduction in net interest income and the net interest margin. The principal source of earnings for the Company is net interest income, and as discussed above, the Company’s net interest margin is a major determinant of the Company’s profitability. The effects of a reduction in net interest income and the net interest margin may be exacerbated by the intense competition for quality loans in the Company’s primary service area and by rate reductions on loans currently held in the portfolio. As a result, a continued reduction in loans could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operating results and financial condition. The Company’s substantial dependence on dividends from its subsidiaries may prevent it from paying dividends to its stockholders and adversely affect its business, results of operations or financial condition. The Company is a separate legal entity from its subsidiaries and does not have significant operations or revenues of its own. The Company substantially depends on dividends from its subsidiaries to pay dividends to stockholders and to pay its operating expenses. The availability of dividends from the subsidiaries is limited by various statutes and regulations. It is possible, depending upon the financial condition of the Company and other factors, that the Comptroller could assert that payment of dividends by the subsidiaries is an unsafe or unsound practice. In the event the subsidiaries are unable to pay dividends to the Company, the Company may not be able to pay dividends on the Company’s common stock, service debt or pay operating expenses. Consequently, the inability to receive dividends from the subsidiaries could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and limit stockholders’ return, if any, to capital appreciation. The Company’s profitability depends significantly on local economic conditions and the effects of the federal government’s sequestration spending cuts may negatively affect the local economy. The Company’s success depends primarily on the general economic conditions of the markets the Company operates in. Unlike larger financial institutions that are more geographically diversified, the Company provides banking and financial services to customers primarily in the Hampton Roads MSA. The local economic conditions in this area have a significant impact on the demand for loans, the ability of the borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. A significant decline in general economic conditions, caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, an outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic calamities, unemployment or other factors beyond the Company’s control could impact these local economic conditions. In addition, the federal government’s automatic reductions in both defense and non-defense spending beginning in March 2012 (through a process commonly known as sequestration) are expected to reduce the level of government spending and may change government contracting policies. Hampton Roads is home to one of the largest military installations in the world and one of the largest concentrations of Department of Defense personnel in the United States. Expected federal government spending cuts as a result of the sequestration could have a severe negative impact on the unemployment rate and business development activities in the Company’s primary service area. The relatively stagnant general economic conditions and the current challenging economic environment have negatively effected the financial results of the Company’s operations. This impact could worsen as a result of the expected impacts of the sequestration. A decline in real estate values could cause a significant portion of the Company’s loan portfolio to be under-collateralized and adversely impact the Company’s operating results and financial condition. The market value of real estate, particularly real estate held for investment, can fluctuate significantly in a short period of time as a result of market conditions in the geographic area in which the real estate is located. If the value of the real estate serving as collateral for the Company’s loan portfolio were to decline materially, a significant part of the loan portfolio could become under-collateralized. If the loans that are collateralized by real estate become troubled during a time when market conditions are declining or have declined, then, in the event of foreclosure, the Company may not be able to realize the dollar value from the collateral that it anticipated at the time of originating the loan. - 11 - Index In recent years, the market value of real estate has declined and has been unable to materially recover, leaving the Company with certain loans that are under-collateralized. Some of these loans have become troubled and have been foreclosed upon, and the Company was unable to realize the expected value of the collateral. Due to these events, the Company has established a valuation reserve for foreclosed assets, which negatively affects the Company’s earnings in periods in which a provision is added to the valuation reserve. In addition, the decline in real estate values and recent inability to materially recover has caused and could continue to cause the Company to experience losses when selling foreclosed property. These factors have had an adverse affect on operating results. Market risk affects the earnings of Trust. The fee structure of Trust is generally based upon the market value of accounts under administration. Most of these accounts are invested in equities of publicly traded companies and debt obligations of both government agencies and publicly traded companies. As such, fluctuations in the equity and debt markets in general have had a direct impact upon the earnings of Trust. The Company may be adversely affected by changes in government monetary policy. As a bank holding company, the Company’s business is affected by the monetary policies established by the FRB, which regulates the national money supply in order to mitigate recessionary and inflationary pressures. In setting its policy, the FRB may utilize techniques such as the following: · Engaging in open market transactions in U.S. Government securities; · Setting the discount rate on member bank borrowings; and · Determining reserve requirements. These techniques may have an adverse effect on deposit levels, net interest margin, loan demand or the Company’s business and operations. The allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. A significant source of risk arises from the possibility that losses could be sustained because borrowers, guarantors, and related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans and leases. Like all financial institutions, the Company maintains an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance. The allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses. In addition, future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect, and have in recent years materially and adversely affected, the Company’s operating results. The allowance for loan losses is determined by analyzing historical loan losses, current trends in delinquencies and charge-offs, plans for problem loan resolutions, changes in the size and composition of the loan portfolio and industry information. Also included in management’s estimates for loan losses are considerations with respect to the impact of economic events, the outcome of which are uncertain. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, that may be beyond the Company’s control and these future losses may exceed current estimates. Federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review the Company’s loans and allowance for loan losses. While management believes that the Company’s allowance is adequate to cover current losses, the Company cannot assure investors that it will not need to increase the allowance or that regulators will not require the allowance to be increased. Either of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect earnings and profitability. The Dodd-Frank Act has increased the Company’s regulatory compliance burden and associated costs, placed restrictions on certain products and services and limited its future capital raising strategies. A wide range of regulatory initiatives directed at the financial services industry has been proposed in recent years. One of those initiatives, the Dodd-Frank Act, was enacted in 2010 and mandates significant changes in the financial regulatory landscape that will impact all financial institutions, including the Company and the Bank. Since its enactment, the Dodd-Frank Act has increased the Company’s regulatory compliance burden and its continuing implementation will likely continue to increase the Company’s regulatory compliance burden and may have a material adverse effect on the Company, by increasing the costs associated with regulatory examinations and compliance measures. However, it is too early to fully assess the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act and related regulatory rulemaking processes on the Company’s and the Bank’s business, financial condition or results of operations. One of the Dodd-Frank Act’s significant regulatory changes is the creation of the CFPB, a financial consumer protection agency that has the authority to impose new regulations and include its examiners in routine regulatory examinations conducted by the Comptroller. The CFPB may reshape the consumer financial laws through rulemaking and enforcement of the Dodd-Frank Act’s prohibitions against unfair, deceptive and abusive business practices, which may directly impact the business operations of financial institutions offering consumer financial products or services, including the Company and the Bank. This agency’s broad rulemaking authority includes identifying practices or acts that are unfair, deceptive or abusive in connection with any consumer financial transaction or consumer financial product or service. Although the CFPB generally has jurisdiction over banks with $10 billion or more in assets, rules, regulations and policies issued by the CFPB may also apply to the Company, the Bank and/or Trust through the adoption of such policies and best practices by the FRB, Comptroller and FDIC. The full costs and limitations related to this additional regulatory agency and the limitations and restrictions that may be placed upon the Company with respect to its consumer product and service offerings have yet to be determined. However, these costs, limitations and restrictions may have a material impact on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. - 12 - Index The Dodd-Frank Act also increases regulatory supervision and examination of bank holding companies and their banking and non-banking subsidiaries. These and other regulations included in the Dodd-Frank Act could increase the Company’s regulatory compliance burden and costs, restrict the financial products and services the Bank can offer to its customers and restrict the Company’s ability to generate revenues from non-banking operations. The Dodd-Frank Act imposes more stringent capital requirements on bank holding companies, which could limit the Company’s future capital strategies. The Basel III capital framework could require higher levels of capital and liquid assets, which could adversely affect the Company’s net income and return on equity. The Basel III capital framework, when implemented by the U.S. banking agencies and fully phased-in, would represent the most comprehensive overhaul of the U.S. banking capital framework in over two decades. The proposed Basel III capital framework and related changes to the standardized calculations of risk-weighted assets are complex and would create enormous compliance burdens, especially for community banks. These proposed regulations would require bank holding companies and their subsidiaries, such as the Company and the Bank, to maintain substantially more capital as a result of higher required capital levels and more demanding regulatory capital risk-weightings and calculations. For example, the Basel III framework would require unrealized gains and losses to flow through to common equity tier 1 capital, which would create significant, and to some extent unpredictable, volatility in regulatory capital levels and calculations and cause banks to adopt significantly more conservative capital management strategies. The proposals would require all banks to substantially change the manner in which they collect and report information to calculate risk-weighted assets, and would likely increase dramatically risk-weighted assets at many banking organizations as a result of applying higher risk-weightings to many types of loans and securities. As a result, banks may be forced to sell certain portions of their residential mortgage portfolios and limit originations of certain types of commercial and mortgage loans, thereby reducing the amount of credit available to borrowers and limiting opportunities to earn interest income from the loan portfolio. If the proposed changes to bank capital levels and the calculation of risk-weighted assets are implemented without change, many banks could be required to access the capital markets on short notice and in relatively weak economic conditions, which could result in banks raising capital that significantly dilutes existing shareholders. Additionally, many community banks could be forced to limit banking operations and activities, and growth of loan portfolios and interest income, in order to focus on retention of earnings to improve capital levels. The regulations ultimately applicable to the Company may be substantially different from the proposed rules to implement the Basel III capital framework and revised calculations of risk-weighted assets. However, the final regulations may have a detrimental effect on the Company’s net income and return on equity and limit the products and services it provides to its customers. The repeal of federal prohibitions on payment of interest on demand deposits could increase interest expense. As part of the Dodd-Frank Act, the prohibition on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on commercial demand deposit accounts was repealed. As a result, beginning in 2011, financial institutions could begin offering interest on demand deposits. Although the Company cannot be certain what interest rates other institutions may offer, the Company expects the impact of offering interest on demand deposits to remain minimal as long as the low interest rate environment continues. When interest rates begin to increase, however, the Company’s interest expense may increase and the net interest margin may decline, which could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Deposit insurance premiums could increase in the future, which may adversely affect future financial performance. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC insured financial institutions, including the Bank. The FDIC charges insured financial institutions premiums to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund (the DIF) at a certain level. Economic conditions since 2008 have increased the rate of bank failures and expectations for further bank failures, requiring the FDIC to make payments for insured deposits from the DIF and prepare for future payments from the DIF. - 13 - Index During 2009, the FDIC imposed a special deposit insurance assessment on all institutions which it regulates, including the Bank. This special assessment was imposed due to the need to replenish the DIF, as a result of increased bank failures and expected future bank failures. In addition, the FDIC required regulated institutions to prepay their fourth quarter 2009, and estimates of their 2010, 2011 and 2012 assessments in December 2009. Any similar, additional measures taken by the FDIC to maintain or replenish the DIF may have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. In 2011, the FDIC adopted final rules to implement changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act with respect to the FDIC assessment rules. A depository institution’s deposit insurance assessment is now calculated based on the institution’s total assets less tangible equity, rather than the previous base of total deposits. These changes did not increase the Company’s FDIC insurance assessments for comparable asset and deposit levels. However, if the Bank’s asset size increases or the FDIC takes other actions to replenish the DIF, the Bank’s FDIC insurance premiums could increase. The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation which could adversely affect them. The Company is subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities and is subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of operations, including those referenced above. Regulations adopted by these agencies, which are generally intended to protect depositors and customers rather than to benefit stockholders, govern a comprehensive range of matters including, without limitation, ownership and control of the Company’s shares, acquisition of other companies and businesses, permissible activities that the Company and its subsidiaries may engage in, maintenance of adequate capital levels and other aspects of operations. These regulations could limit the Company’s growth by restricting certain of its activities. The laws, rules and regulations applicable to the Company are subject to regular modification and change. Regulatory changes could subject the Company to more demanding regulatory compliance requirements which could affect the Company in unpredictable and adverse ways. Such changes could subject the Company to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products it may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or damage to the Company’s reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Legislation and regulatory initiatives containing wide-ranging proposals for altering the structure, regulation and competitive relationship of financial institutions are introduced regularly. The Company cannot predict in what form or whether a proposed statute or regulation will be adopted or the extent to which such adoption may affect its business. The Company’s future success depends on its ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive financial services industry. The Company faces substantial competition in all phases of its operations from a variety of different competitors. Growth and success depends on the Company’s ability to compete effectively in this highly competitive financial services environment. Many competitors offer products and services that are not offered by the Company, and many have substantially greater resources, name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively and may have larger lending limits that would allow them to serve the credit needs of larger customers. Some of the financial services organizations with which the Company competes are not subject to the same degree of regulation as is imposed on bank holding companies and federally insured national banks. As a result, these non-bank competitors have certain advantages over the Company in accessing funding and in providing various services. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Failure to compete effectively to attract new and retain current customers in the Company’s markets could cause it to lose market share, slow its growth rate and may have an adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. System failures, interruptions or breaches of security could adversely impact the Company’s business operations and financial condition. Communications and information systems are essential to the conduct of the Company’s businesses, as such systems are used to manage customer relationships, general ledger, deposits and loans. While the Company has established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the impact of systems failures, interruptions and security breaches, there can be no assurance that such events will not occur or that they will be adequately addressed if they do. Additionally, the Company may not have the resources or technical sophistication to anticipate or prevent rapidly evolving types of cyber-attacks. In addition, any compromise of the security systems could deter customers from using the Bank’s website and online banking service, both of which involve the transmission of confidential information. Although the Company and the Bank rely on commonly used security and processing systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect the secure transmission of data, these precautions may not protect the systems from compromises or breaches of security, which would adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. - 14 - Index In addition, the Company outsources certain data processing to certain third-party providers. If the third-party providers encounter difficulties, or if the Company has difficulty in communicating with them, the Company’s ability to adequately process and account for customer transactions could be affected, and the Company’s business operations could be adversely impacted. Threats to information security also exist in the processing of customer information through various other vendors and their personnel. The occurrence of any systems failure, interruption or breach of security could expose the Company to risks of data loss or data misuse, could damage the Company’s reputation and result in a loss of customers and business, could subject it to additional regulatory scrutiny or could expose it to civil litigation, possible financial liability and costly response measures. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Negative public opinion could damage the Company’s reputation and adversely impact the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operation. Reputation risk, or the risk to the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operation from negative public opinion, is inherent in the financial services industry. Negative public opinion can result from actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices and corporate governance, and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion could adversely affect the Company’s ability to keep and attract customers and employees and could expose it to litigation and regulatory action. Damage to the Company’s reputation could adversely affect deposits and loans and otherwise negatively affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operation. The Company may need to raise additional capital in the future and such capital may not be available when needed or at all. The Company may need to raise additional capital in the future to provide it with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet its commitments and business needs, particularly if its asset quality or earnings were to deteriorate significantly. The Company’s ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of the Company’s control, and the Company’s financial performance. Economic conditions and the loss of confidence in financial institutions may increase the Company’s cost of funding and limit access to certain customary sources of capital, including inter-bank borrowings, repurchase agreements and borrowings from the Federal Reserve Bank’s discount window. The Company cannot assure that such capital will be available on acceptable terms or at all. Any occurrence that may limit the Company’s access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of debt purchasers, depositors of the bank or counterparties participating in the capital markets, or a downgrade of the parent company or the bank’s ratings, may adversely affect the Company’s capital costs and its ability to raise capital and, in turn, its liquidity. Moreover, if the Company needs to raise capital in the future, it may have to do so when many other financial institutions are also seeking to raise capital and would have to compete with those institutions for investors. An inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to operational risk, which could adversely affect business, financial condition and results of operation. The Company and its subsidiaries, like all businesses, are subject to operational risk, which is the risk of loss resulting from human error, fraud or unauthorized transactions due to inadequate or failed internal processes and systems, and external events that are wholly or partially beyond the Company’s control (including, for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages). Operational risk also encompasses compliance (legal) risk, which is the risk of loss from violations of, or noncompliance with, laws, rules, regulations, prescribed practices or ethical standards. Although the Company and its subsidiaries seek to mitigate operational risk through a system of internal controls, there can be no assurance that they will not suffer losses from operational risks in the future that may be material in amount. Any losses resulting from transaction risk could take the form of explicit charges, increased operational costs, litigation costs, harm to reputation or forgone opportunities, any and all of which could have a material adverse effect on business, financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. - 15 - Index 