Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company is subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates may negatively affect its financial performance. The Company’s profitability depends in substantial part on its net interest margin, which is the difference between the rates received on loans and investments and the rates paid for deposits and other sources of funds. The net interest margin depends on many factors that are partly or completely outside of the Company’s control, including competition, federal economic, monetary and fiscal policies, and economic conditions. Changes in interest rates affect operating performance and financial condition. The Company tries to minimize its exposure to interest rate risk, but it is unable to completely eliminate this risk. Because of the differences in the maturities and repricing characteristics of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Accordingly, fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect the Company’s net interest margin and, in turn, its profitability. At December 31, 2007, based on scheduled maturities only, the Company’s balance sheet was liability sensitive at the one year time frame and, as a result, its net interest margin will tend to decrease in a rising interest rate environment and increase in a declining interest rate environment. In addition, any substantial and prolonged increase in market interest rates could reduce the Bank’s customers’ desire to borrow money or adversely affect their ability to repay their outstanding loans by increasing their credit costs. Interest rate changes could also affect the fair value of the Company’s financial assets and liabilities. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect the Company’s net interest margin, asset quality, loan origination volume, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Company’s substantial dependence on dividends from its subsidiaries may prevent it from paying dividends to its stockholders and adversely affect its business, results of operations or financial condition. The Company is a separate legal entity from its subsidiaries and does not have significant operations or revenues of its own. The Company substantially depends on dividends from its subsidiaries to pay dividends to stockholders and to pay its operating expenses. The availability of dividends from the subsidiaries is limited by various statues and regulations. It is possible, depending upon the financial condition of the Company and other factors, that the Comptroller could assert that payment of dividends by the subsidiaries is an unsafe or unsound practice. In the event the subsidiaries are unable to pay dividends to the Company, the Company may not be able to pay dividends on the Company’s common stock, service debt or pay operating expenses. Consequently, the inability to receive dividends from the subsidiaries could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects and limit stockholders’ return, if any, to capital appreciation. – 6 – Table of Contents The Company’s profitability depends significantly on local economic conditions. The Company’s success depends primarily on the general economic conditions of the markets the Company operates in. Unlike larger financial institutions that are more geographically diversified, the Company provides banking and financial services to customers primarily in the Hampton Roads MSA. The local economic conditions in this area have a significant impact on the demand for loans, the ability of the borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. A significant decline in general economic conditions, caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, an outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic calamities, unemployment or other factors beyond our control could impact these local economic conditions and could negatively affect the financial results of the Company’s operations. A decline in real estate values could cause a significant portion of the Company’s loan portfolio to be under-collateralized and adversely impact the Company’s operating results and financial condition. The market value of real estate, particularly real estate held for investment, can fluctuate significantly in a short period of time as a result of market conditions in the geographic area in which the real estate is located. If the value of the real estate serving as collateral for the Company’s loan portfolio were to decline materially, a significant part of the loan portfolio could become under-collateralized. If the loans that are collateralized by real estate become troubled during a time when market conditions are declining or have declined, then, in the event of foreclosure, the Company may not be able to realize the amount of collateral that it anticipated at the time of originating the loan. In that event, the Company may have to increase its provision for loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on its operating results and financial condition. Market Risk affects the earnings of Trust. The fee structure of Trust is generally based upon the market value of accounts under administration. Most of these accounts are invested in equities of publicly traded companies and debt obligations of both government agencies and publicly traded companies. As such, fluctuations in the equity and debt markets in general can have a direct impact upon the earnings of Trust. The Company may be adversely affected by changes in government monetary policy. As a bank holding company, the Company’s business is affected by the monetary policies established by the Board of Governors of the FRB, which regulates the national money supply in order to mitigate recessionary and inflationary pressures. In setting its policy, the FRB may utilize techniques such as the following: • Engaging in open market transactions in United States government securities; • Setting the discount rate on member bank borrowings; and • Determining reserve requirements. These techniques may have an adverse effect on deposit levels, net interest margin, loan demand or the Company’s business and operations. The allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. A significant source of risk arises from the possibility that losses could be sustained because borrowers, guarantors, and related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans and leases. Like all financial institutions, the Company maintains an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance. The allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses. In addition, future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect the Company’s operating results. The allowance for loan losses is determined by analyzing historical loan losses, current trends in delinquencies and charge-offs, plans for problem loan resolutions, changes in the size and composition of the loan portfolio and industry information. Also included in management’s estimates for loan losses are considerations with respect to the impact of economic events, the outcome of which are uncertain. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, that may be beyond the Company’s control and these future losses may exceed current estimates. Federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review the Company’s loans and allowance for loan losses. While management believes that the Company’s allowance is adequate to cover current losses, the Company cannot assure investors that it will not need to increase the allowance or that regulators will not require the allowance to be increased. Either of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect earnings and profitability. – 7 – Table of Contents The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation which could adversely affect them. The Company is subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities and is subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of operations. Regulations adopted by these agencies, which are generally intended to protect depositors and customers rather than to benefit stockholders, govern a comprehensive range of matters including, without limitation, ownership and control of the Company’s shares, acquisition of other companies and businesses, permissible activities for the Company and its subsidiaries may engage in, maintenance of adequate capital levels and other aspects of operations. These regulations could limit the Company’s growth by restricting certain of its activities. The laws, rules and regulations applicable to the Company are subject to regular modification and change. Regulatory changes could subject the Company to more demanding regulatory compliance requirements which could affect the Company in unpredictable and adverse ways. Such changes could subject the Company to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products it may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Legislation and regulatory initiative containing wide-ranging proposals for altering the structure, regulation and competitive relationship of financial institutions are introduced regularly. The Company cannot predict whether or what form of proposed statute or regulation will be adopted or the extent to which such adoption may affect our business. The Company’s future success depends on its ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive financial services industry. The Company faces substantial competition in all phases of its operations from a variety of different competitors. Growth and success depends on the Company’s ability to compete effectively in this highly competitive financial services environment. Many competitors offer products and services that are not offered by the Company, and many have substantially greater resources, name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposit more aggressively and may have larger lending limits that would allow them to serve the credit needs of larger customers. Some of the financial service organizations with which the Company competes are not subject to the same degree of regulation as is imposed on bank holding companies and federally insured national banks. As a result, these non-bank competitors have certain advantages over the Company in accessing funding and in providing various services. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Failure to compete effectively to attract new and retain current customers in the Company’s markets could cause it to lose market share, slow its growth rate and may have an adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. Negative public opinion could damage the Company’s reputation and adversely impact the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operation. Reputation risk, or the risk to the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operation from negative public opinion, is inherent in the financial services industry. Negative public opinion can result from actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices and corporate governance, and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion could adversely affect the Company’s ability to keep and attract customers and employees and could expose it to litigation and regulatory action. Damage to the Company’s reputation could adversely affect deposits and loans and otherwise negatively affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operation. The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to transaction risk, which could adversely affect business, financial condition and results of operation. The Company and its subsidiaries, like all businesses, are subject to transaction risk, which is the risk of loss resulting from human error, fraud or unauthorized transactions due to inadequate or failed internal processes and systems, and external events that are wholly or partially beyond the Company’s control (including, for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages). Transaction risk also encompasses compliance (legal) risk, which is the risk of loss from violations of, or noncompliance with, laws, rules, regulations, prescribed practices or ethical standards. Although the Company and its subsidiaries seek to mitigate operational risk through a system of internal controls, there can be no assurance that they will not suffer losses from operational risks in the future that may be material in amount. Any losses resulting from transaction risk could take the form of explicit charges, increased operational costs, litigation costs, harm to reputation or forgone opportunities, any and all of which could have a material adverse effect on business, financial condition and results of operations. – 8 – Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 