Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent to our business. The material risks and uncertainties that we believe affects our business and earnings are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our business. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of or focused on, or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our common stock could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to the Company’s Business Growing By Acquisition Entails Certain Risks. On March 31, 2009, we completed a merger with Graystone Financial Corp. and on December 10, 2010, we completed the acquisition of First Chester County Corporation (“First Chester”). We regularly evaluate opportunities to grow through acquisition. Growth by acquisition involves risks. The success of the acquisitions may depend on, among other things, the ability to realize anticipated cost savings and to combine the businesses of the acquired company with businesses in a manner that does not result in decreased revenues resulting from disruption of existing customer relationships of the acquired company. If we are not able to achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of an acquisition may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than planned. Further, the asset quality or other financial characteristics of a company we plan to acquire may deteriorate between the dates a merger or other acquisition agreement is entered into and when the transaction is completed. 11 Table of Contents Depending upon the terms we negotiate in the related merger or acquisition agreement, the deterioration may not allow us to terminate the proposed transaction, such that we may be required to close the proposed transaction with such a company to the detriment of our future financial condition. Additionally, if a pending acquisition is not completed due to the failure to satisfy certain conditions or otherwise, expenses incurred in connection therewith could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition because we would not have realized the expected benefits. A continuation of recent turmoil in the financial markets, particularly if economic conditions worsen more than expected, could have an adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. In recent periods, United States and global markets, as well as general economic conditions, have been disrupted and are volatile. This situation is continuing. The impact of this situation, together with concerns regarding the financial strength of financial institutions, has led to distress in credit markets and liquidity issues for financial institutions. Some financial institutions around the world have failed; others have been forced to seek acquisition partners. The United States and other governments have taken unprecedented steps to try to stabilize the financial system, including investing in financial institutions. Our business and our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by (1) continued or accelerated disruption and volatility in financial markets, (2) continued capital and liquidity concerns regarding financial institutions generally and our counterparties specifically, (3) limitations resulting from further governmental action in an effort to stabilize or provide additional regulation of the financial system, or (4) recessionary conditions that are deeper or last longer than currently anticipated. Economic conditions and the composition of our loan portfolio could impact the level of loan charge-offs and the provision for loan losses and may affect our results of operations. National and regional economic conditions could impact the loan portfolio of the Bank. For example, an increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values or increases in interest rates, as well as other factors, could further weaken the economies of the communities we serve. Weakness in the market areas we serve could depress our earnings and, consequently, our financial condition because: • borrowers may not be able to repay their loans; • the value of the collateral securing our loans to borrowers may decline; and • the overall quality of our loan portfolio may decline. Any of these scenarios could require that we charge-off a higher percentage of our loans and/or increase our provision for loan losses, which would negatively impact our results of operations. In this regard, in establishing the size of our allowance for loan losses, we make various general assumptions and judgments about the quality and collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. The amount of our provision for loan losses and the percentage of loans we are required to charge-off may be impacted by adverse developments in and the overall risk composition of the loan portfolio. While we believe that our allowance for loan losses as of December 31, 2010 is sufficient to cover losses inherent in the loan portfolio on that date, we may be required to increase our loan loss provision or charge-off a higher percentage of loans due to adverse developments in or changes in the risk characteristics of the loan portfolio, thereby negatively impacting our results of operations. For example, a decrease in real estate values could cause higher loan losses and require higher loan loss provisions for loans that are secured by real estate. We have recorded all loans acquired in the FCEC Merger at their fair market value as of the acquisition date in accordance with applicable accounting guidance. The fair market value assigned to the acquired loans is based on 12 Table of Contents management’s review and assessment of the portfolio as of the acquisition date and we may be required to increase our loan loss provision for or charge-off a higher percentage of the acquired loans due to adverse developments in or changes in the risk characteristics of the portfolio, which would have a negative impact on our earnings. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by certain state and federal agencies including the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or FDIC, as insurer of the Bank’s deposits, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, as regulator of the holding company, and the Pennsylvania Department of Banking, as regulator of Pennsylvania chartered banks. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily to ensure the safety and soundness of financial institutions. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on operations, the classification of assets and determination of the level of the allowance for loan losses. Decisions of regulatory authorities could adversely impact us. As an employer, our business is subject to federal and state employment laws, the failure to comply with which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The Fair Labor Standards Act and wage and hour laws of the various states in which we conduct business govern the treatment of our employees with respect to various employment related issues, including the payment of overtime wages to non-exempt employees, which may include certain mortgage loan originators. The failure to comply with such laws could subject us to, among other things, administrative fines, class action lawsuits, damages awards and injunctions, any of which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Significant legal actions could subject us to substantial liabilities or litigation costs, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are currently involved in various claims and legal actions relating to the prior operations of the American Home Bank division (the “AHB Division”), acquired in the FCEC Merger. In general, such matters are believed to be ordinary routine litigation incidental to the conduct of business. Nonetheless, the costs to pursue and defend these legal matters may be significant, and if the claims are determined against us, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects. Additional matters may arise in connection with the winding down of operations of the AHB Division. Legislative and regulatory actions taken now or in the future to address the current liquidity and credit crisis in the financial industry may significantly affect our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or stock price. Current economic conditions, particularly in the financial markets, have resulted in government regulatory agencies and political bodies placing increased focus and scrutiny on the financial services industry. The U.S. Government has intervened on an unprecedented scale, enacting and implementing numerous programs and actions targeted at the financial markets generally and the financial services industry in particular. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, was signed into law. The Dodd-Frank Act will implement significant changes to the U.S. financial system, including among others, (i) the creation of a new Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection with supervisory authority, including the power to conduct bank examinations and take enforcement actions with respect to financial institutions with assets of $10.0 billion or more, (ii) the creation of a Financial Stability Oversight 13 Table of Contents Council with authority to identify institutions and practices that might pose a systemic risk, (iii) provisions affecting corporate governance and executive compensation of all companies subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, (iv) a provision that would broaden the base for FDIC insurance assessments, and (v) a provision that would require bank regulators to set minimum capital levels for bank holding companies that are as strong as those required for their insured depository subsidiaries, subject to a grandfather clause for holding companies with less than $15.0 billion in assets as of December 31, 2009. The Dodd-Frank Act contains numerous other provisions affecting financial institutions of all types, many of which may have an impact on our operating environment in substantial and unpredictable ways. While some of the Dodd-Frank Act’s provisions will be effective immediately, many are to be implemented by rules promulgated within six to eighteen months of signing. The Dodd-Frank Act and the regulations to be adopted are expected to subject us and other financial institutions to additional restrictions, oversight and costs that may have an adverse impact on its business, financial condition, results of operations or the price of our common stock. The Dodd-Frank Act substantially increases regulation of the financial services industry and imposes restrictions on the operations and general ability of firms within the industry to conduct business consistent with historical practices. However, the ultimate effect of the Dodd-Frank Act on the financial services industry in general, and our organization in particular, is uncertain at this time. Federal and state regulatory agencies also frequently adopt changes to their regulations or change the manner in which existing regulations are applied or enforced. We cannot predict the substance or impact of the Dodd-Frank Act or other pending or future legislation, regulation or the application thereof. Compliance with such current and potential regulation and scrutiny may significantly increase our costs, impede the efficiency of our internal business processes, require us to increase our regulatory capital and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities in an efficient manner. A substantial decline in the value of our Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh common stock may adversely affect our financial condition. We own common stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh, or the FHLB, in order to qualify for membership in the Federal Home Loan Bank system, which enables us to borrow funds under the Federal Home Loan Bank advance program. The carrying value and fair market value of our FHLB common stock, including stock acquired in the FCEC Merger, was approximately $14.5 million as of December 31, 2010. Published reports indicate that certain member banks of the Federal Home Loan Bank system may be subject to asset quality risks that could result in materially lower regulatory capital levels. In December 2008, the FHLB had notified its member banks that it had suspended dividend payments and the repurchase of capital stock until further notice is provided. In an extreme situation, it is possible that the capitalization of a Federal Home Loan Bank, including the FHLB, could be substantially diminished or reduced to zero. Consequently, given that there is no market for our FHLB common stock, we believe that there is a risk that our investment could be deemed other than temporarily impaired at some time in the future. If this occurs, it may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Increases in FDIC insurance premiums may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. During 2008 through 2010, higher levels of bank failures have dramatically increased resolution costs of the FDIC and depleted the deposit insurance fund. In addition, the FDIC and the U.S. Congress have taken action to increase federal deposit insurance coverage, placing additional stress on the deposit insurance fund. In order to maintain a strong funding position and restore reserve ratios of the deposit insurance fund, the FDIC increased assessment rates of insured institutions uniformly by seven cents for every $100 of deposits beginning with the first quarter of 2009, with additional changes beginning April 1, 2009, which require riskier institutions to pay a larger share of premiums by factoring in rate adjustments based on secured liabilities and unsecured debt levels. 14 Table of Contents To further support the rebuilding of the deposit insurance fund, the FDIC imposed a special assessment on each insured institution, equal to five basis points of the institution’s total assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009. For the Bank, this represented a charge of approximately $580 thousand, which was recorded as a pre-tax charge during the second quarter of 2009. The FDIC has indicated that future special assessments are possible, although it has not determined the magnitude or timing of any future assessments. Additionally, on November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule that required insured depository institutions to prepay, on December 30, 2009, their estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011, and 2012, along with their quarterly risk-based assessment for the third quarter of 2009. The amount of the prepayment attributable to the fourth quarter of 2009 and all of 2010 is based upon a bank’s total base assessment rate in effect on September 30, 2009, which would be increased by 3 basis points for 2011 and 2012. In order to determine the amount of the prepayment, the assessment rate (as adjusted) is applied to the assessment base for the third quarter of 2009, increased quarterly to reflect an estimated 5 percent annual growth rate through 2012. Upon the closing of the FCEC Merger, the Bank increased its prepaid assessment by $3.8 million. Under GAAP accounting rules, prepaid assessments, unlike special assessments, do not immediately affect bank earnings, although the prepayment reduced the Bank’s liquid assets by approximately $6.3 million. Banks record the entire amount of its prepaid assessment as a prepaid expense (asset) as of December 30, 2009 (the date of payment), and will record an expense (charge to earnings) for its regular quarterly assessment and an offsetting credit to the prepaid assessment until the asset is exhausted. We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there is additional bank or financial institution failures, we may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums. Our expenses for the year ended December 31, 2009 were significantly and adversely affected by these increased and prepaid premiums and the special assessment. These increases and assessment and any future increases in insurance premiums or additional special assessments may materially adversely affect our results of operations. The soundness of other financial services institutions may adversely affect our credit risk. We rely on other financial services institutions through trading, clearing, counterparty, and other relationships. We maintain limits and monitor concentration levels of our counterparties as specified in our internal policies. Our reliance on other financial services institutions exposes us to credit risk in the event of default by these institutions or counterparties. These losses could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in interest rates could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to make a profit, like that of most financial institutions, substantially depends upon our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on interest earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and the interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Changes in interest rates can increase or reduce net interest income and net income. Different types of assets and liabilities may react differently, and at different times, to changes in market interest rates. When interest-bearing liabilities mature or reprice more quickly than interest-earning assets in a period, an increase in market rates of interest could reduce net interest income. When interest-earning assets mature or reprice more quickly than interest-bearing liabilities, falling interest rates could reduce net interest income. Changes in market interest rates are affected by many factors beyond our control, including inflation, unemployment, money supply, international events, and events in the United States and other financial markets. We attempt to manage risk from changes in market interest rates, in part, by controlling the mix of interest rate sensitive assets and interest rate sensitive liabilities. However, interest rate risk management techniques are not exact and a rapid increase or decrease in interest rates could adversely affect our financial performance. 15 Table of Contents Our loan portfolio includes a large number and amount of commercial and industrial loans, and commercial real estate related loans, which have a higher degree of risk than other types of loans. We provide lending services to various types of small businesses, their owners, professionals and other individuals. Commercial loans are generally considered to have a higher degree of risk of default or loss than other types of loans, such as residential real estate loans, because repayment may be affected by general economic conditions, interest rates, the quality of management of the business, and other factors that may cause a borrower to be unable to repay its obligations. The current economic downturn may increase this risk of default or loss, which may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We are required to make a number of judgments in applying accounting policies and different estimates and assumptions in the application of these policies could result in a decrease in capital and/or other material changes to our reports of financial condition and results of operations. Material estimates that are particularly susceptible to significant change relate to the determination of the allowance for loan losses and reserve for unfunded lending commitments, the effectiveness of derivatives and other hedging activities, the fair value of certain financial instruments (securities, derivatives, and privately held investments), income tax assets or liabilities (including deferred tax assets and any related valuation allowance), share-based compensation, and accounting for acquisitions, including the fair value determinations and the analysis of goodwill impairment. While we have identified those accounting policies that are considered critical and have procedures in place to facilitate the associated judgments, different assumptions in the application of these policies could result in a decrease to net income and, possibly, capital and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Difficulties in integrating past or future acquisitions could adversely affect our business. We have spent and may continue to spend significant resources identifying businesses to acquire. The efficient and effective integration of any businesses we acquires into our organization is critical to our growth. The Graystone Merger, the FCEC Merger, and any future mergers or acquisitions, involve numerous risks including difficulties in integrating the culture, operations, technologies and personnel of the acquired companies, the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns and the potential loss of customers. Failure to successfully integrate the operations of Graystone and First Chester could also harm our business, results of operations and cash flows. We plan to pursue a growth strategy and there are risks associated with rapid growth. Prior to the merger of the Company and Graystone, Graystone had experienced rapid growth since opening in November 2005. We intend to pursue a growth plan consistent with Graystone’s prior business strategy, including growth by acquisition, as well as leveraging our existing branch network and adding new branch locations in current and adjacent markets we choose to serve. The FCEC Merger was part of our growth strategy. Our ability to manage growth successfully will depend on our ability to attract qualified personnel and maintain cost controls and asset quality while attracting additional loans and deposits on favorable terms, as well as on factors beyond our control, such as economic conditions and competition. If we grow too quickly and are not able to attract qualified personnel, control costs and maintain asset quality, this continued rapid growth could materially adversely affect our financial performance. We may elect or need to seek additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when needed. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In the future, we may elect or need to raise additional capital. Our ability to raise additional capital, if 16 Table of Contents needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital if needed on acceptable terms. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to expand our operations through internal growth or acquisitions could be materially impaired. Future acquisitions could dilute your ownership of our common stock and may cause us to become more susceptible to adverse economic events. We may issue shares of our common stock in connection with future acquisitions and other investments, which would dilute your ownership interest in us. While there is no assurance that these transactions will occur, or that they will occur on terms favorable to us, future business acquisitions could be material to us, and the degree of success achieved in acquiring and integrating these businesses into us could have a material effect on the value of our common stock. In addition, these acquisitions could require us to expend substantial cash or other liquid assets or to incur debt, which could cause us to become more susceptible to economic downturns and competitive pressures. Our controls and procedures may fail or could be circumvented. We have implemented a series of internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures in order to ensure accurate financial control and reporting. However, any system of controls, no matter how well designed and operated, can only provide reasonable, not absolute assurance that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and/or procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operation and financial condition. The weaknesses in First Chester’s internal control and disclosure controls and procedures prior to the FCEC Merger, as described in First Chester’s filings with the SEC, may pose additional risks to us should we be unable to adequately integrate First Chester. Loss of our senior executive officers or other key employees could impair our relationship with our customers and adversely affect our business. We have assembled a senior management team which has substantial background and experience in banking and financial services in the markets we serve. Loss of these key personnel could negatively impact our earnings because of their skills, customer relationships and/or the potential difficulty of promptly replacing them. An interruption or breach in security with respect to our information systems, as well as information systems of our outsourced service providers, could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. Strong competition within our market area may limit our growth and profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. We compete actively with other Pennsylvania and Maryland financial institutions, many larger than us, as well as with financial and non-financial institutions headquartered elsewhere. Commercial banks, savings banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, and money market funds actively compete for deposits and loans. Such institutions, as well as consumer finance, insurance companies and brokerage firms, may be considered competitors with respect to one or more services they render. We will likely be generally competitive with all institutions in our service areas with respect to interest rates paid on time and savings deposits, service charges on deposit accounts, interest rates charged on 17 Table of Contents loans and fees for trust and investment advisory services. Many of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits and may offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. Our profitability depends upon our ability to successfully compete in our market area. We continually encounter technological change. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to effectively embrace technology efficiencies to better serve customers and reduce costs. Failure to keep pace with technological change could potentially have an adverse effect on our business operations and financial condition. Risks Related to the FCEC Merger We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the FCEC Merger. The success of the FCEC Merger will depend on, among other things, our ability to realize anticipated cost savings and to combine the businesses of the Bank and the First National Bank of Chester County (“FNB”) in a manner that permits growth opportunities and does not materially disrupt the existing customer relationships of FNB nor result in decreased revenues resulting from any loss of customers. If we are not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. At the time the FCEC Merger was announced, we estimated upon the completion of the merger of the companies’ bank subsidiaries that we would expect to achieve annual total cost savings of approximately $12 million, pre-tax, through the reduction of administrative and operational redundancies. While we believe these cost savings estimates are achievable as of the date of this report, it is possible that the potential cost savings could turn out to be more difficult to achieve than originally anticipated. The cost savings estimates depend on the ability to combine the businesses in a manner that permits those cost savings to be realized. Certain employees of First Chester have not been or will not be employed by us. Further, employees of First Chester that we wish to retain may elect to terminate their employment as a result of the FCEC Merger, which could delay or disrupt the integration process. It is possible that the integration process could result in the disruption of First Chester’s ongoing business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger. The First Chester loan portfolio could adversely affect our earnings. We have recorded all loans acquired in the FCEC Merger at their fair market value as of the closing date of the FCEC Merger in accordance with applicable accounting guidance. The fair market value assigned to the acquired loans is based on our review and assessment of the portfolio as of the acquisition date and we may be required to increase our loan loss provision for or charge-off a higher percentage of the acquired loans due to adverse developments in or changes in the risk characteristics of the portfolio, which would have a negative impact on our earnings. We could record future impairment losses on First Chester’s holdings of investment securities available for sale. First Chester’s investment portfolio of securities available for sale included corporate bonds securities, collateralized mortgage obligations and collateralized debt obligations. First Chester recognized an other than temporary impairment charge totaling approximately $1.6 million during the quarter ended September 30, 2009 as a result of impairment charges related to four bank equity securities, which were subsequently sold during the fourth quarter of 2009. As a result of the FCEC Merger, we assumed ownership of remaining investment portfolio securities and recorded them at their fair value as of the closing date of the FCEC Merger. A number of factors or combinations of factors could cause us to conclude in one or more future reporting periods that an 18 Table of Contents unrealized loss that exists with respect to these securities constitutes an additional impairment that is other than temporary, which could result in material losses to us. These factors include, but are not limited to, failure to make scheduled principal and interest payments, an increase in the severity of the unrealized loss on a particular security, an increase in the continuous duration of the unrealized loss without an improvement in value or changes in market conditions and/or industry or issuer specific factors that would render us unable to forecast a full recovery in value. In addition, the fair values of these investment securities could decline if the overall economy and the financial condition of some of the issuers continue to deteriorate and there remains limited liquidity for these securities. After the FCEC Merger and prior to December 31, 2010, we sold a significant portion of the First Chester investment portfolio. We believe the maximum potential loss on the remaining securities from the First Chester investment portfolio will not exceed $169 thousand. Costs associated with discontinuing the AHB Division’s mortgage-banking activities and contingent liabilities relating to this business may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Prior to the FCEC Merger, our management and board of directors concluded that the multi-state residential mortgage banking business of First Chester’s AHB Division was incompatible with our relationship-based community banking business model. Accordingly, the FCEC Merger Agreement required First Chester to use its best efforts to sell the AHB Division at or prior to the effective date of the FCEC Merger, which efforts were ultimately unsuccessful. Thereafter, during the fourth quarter of 2010, we initiated a plan to wind down the operations of the AHB Division. Our current plan is to have the majority of all operations cease at the AHB Division by the end of the first quarter of 2011, with the completion of the wind down occurring by the end of the second quarter of 2011. We recognized $1.4 million of restructuring charges relating to the AHB Division through restructuring expense during the fourth quarter of 2010 and anticipate recognizing up to an additional $2.6 million of restructuring costs related to the AHB Division in the first quarter of 2011. Moreover, the AHB Division incurred a pre-tax operating loss of approximately $2.1 million from the merger date of December 10, 2010 to December 31, 2010. We expect operating losses will continue during the first and second quarter of 2011, which may be significant. Actual restructuring expenses and operating losses associated with winding down the operations of the AHB Division may exceed our estimates. Additionally, we continue to retain contingent liabilities relating to the prior operations of the AHB Division as well as actions undertaken in connection with the wind down. These matters could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects. The Bank, as successor to FNB, could be required to repurchase mortgage loans or indemnify mortgage loan purchasers as a result of breaches of representations and warranties, borrower fraud, or certain borrower defaults, which could have a material adverse impact on liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. When FNB prior to the FCEC Merger sold, or the Bank after the FCEC Merger sells, mortgage loans, whether as whole loans or pursuant to a securitization, it is required to make customary representations and warranties to the purchasers about the mortgage loans and the manner in which they were originated. FNB’s whole loan sale agreements assumed by the Bank require Graystone Tower Bank to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans in the event FNB or the Bank breaches any of these representations or warranties. In addition, the Bank may be required to repurchase mortgage loans as a result of borrower fraud or in the event of early payment default of the borrower on a mortgage loan. Likewise, the Bank is required to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans if it breaches a representation or warranty in connection with a securitization. The remedies available to the Bank against the originating broker or correspondent may not be as broad as the remedies available to a purchaser of mortgage loans against the Bank, and the Bank faces the further risk that the originating broker or correspondent may not have the financial capacity to perform remedies that otherwise may be available to it. Therefore, if a 19 Table of Contents purchaser enforces its remedies, the Bank may not be able to recover its losses from the originating broker or correspondent. If repurchase and indemnity demands increase, the Bank’s liquidity, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. Due to the complexity of acquisition accounting, certain amounts included in our consolidated balance sheets and consolidated statements of operations are based on preliminary estimates of value and our actual financial position and results of operations after the FCEC Merger may differ materially from the estimates included in our financial statements. Under the acquisition method of accounting required by U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), we are required to record First Chester’s identifiable assets acquired and liabilities at their fair value as of the acquisition date of December 10, 2010. Fair values are subject to refinement for up to one year after the closing date of an acquisition as information relative to closing date fair values becomes available. In preparing the acquisition accounting adjustments for our financial statements, we have engaged independent third-party valuation experts to assist in valuing certain assets, particularly intangibles. Other assets and liabilities are generally valued using our internal asset/liability modeling system. If additional information becomes available prior to December 10, 2011 regarding the fair value of First Chester’s assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date, we may be required to modify the acquisition accounting adjustments relating to the acquisition, which could materially affect the amount of goodwill recorded in connection with the FCEC Merger. The integration of First Chester into the Company may distract our management from their other responsibilities. The FCEC Merger could cause our management to focus their time and energies on matters related to the FCEC Merger that otherwise would be directed to our business and operations. Any such distraction on the part of management, if significant, could affect management’s ability to service existing business and develop new business and otherwise adversely affect us following the FCEC Merger. Our lack of extensive experience in the Chester and Delaware Counties, Pennsylvania market area may adversely impact our ability to successfully compete. The FCEC Merger expands our market area into Chester County and Delaware County, Pennsylvania. While this new market area is contiguous to our existing market area, it is outside of the markets in which our senior management has more extensive knowledge and experience. Accordingly, there is a risk that we will lose customers in this new market area, may not adequately address this new market in terms of the products and services we propose to offer, or may be unable to successfully compete with institutions already established within this market area. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and this may make it difficult for you to resell shares of common stock owned by you at times or at prices you find attractive. The price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market constantly changes. We expect that the market price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate and there can be no assurance about the market prices for our common stock. Our stock price may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • our financial condition, performance, creditworthiness and prospects; 20 Table of Contents • quarterly variations in our operating results or the quality of our assets; • operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance; • announcements of innovations, new products, strategic developments, significant contracts, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors; • the operating and securities price performance of other companies that investors believe are comparable to us; • future sales of our equity or equity-related securities; • the credit, mortgage and housing markets, the markets for securities relating to mortgages or housing, and developments with respect to financial institutions generally; • changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, stock, commodity or real estate valuations or volatility and other geopolitical, regulatory or judicial events; • our ability to integrate successfully First Chester’s assets, liabilities, customers, systems and management personnel into our operations, and to realize expected cost savings and revenue enhancements within expected timeframes or at all; • the possibility that expected First Chester merger-related charges will be materially greater than forecasted or that final purchase price allocations based on fair value of the acquired assets and liabilities as of the closing date of the FCEC Merger and related adjustments to yield and/or amortization of the acquired assets and liabilities will be materially different from those forecasted; and • the relatively low trading volume of our common stock. The trading volume in our common stock is less than that of larger financial services companies. Our common stock has been listed under the symbol “TOBC” on the NASDAQ Global Select Market since January 2011 and on the NASDAQ Global Market since April 2009. The average daily trading volume for shares of our common stock is less than larger financial services companies. Given the lower trading volume of our common stock, the sale of a significant number of these shares, or the expectation of such sales, could adversely affect the market price of our stock. We may issue additional common stock or other equity securities in the future which could dilute the ownership interest of existing shareholders. In order to maintain our capital at desired or regulatory-required levels or to replace existing capital, we may be required to issue additional shares of common stock, or securities convertible into, exchangeable for or representing rights to acquire shares of common stock. We are generally not restricted from issuing such additional shares. We may sell any shares that we issue at prices below the current market price of our common stock, and the sale of these shares may significantly dilute shareholder ownership. We could also issue additional shares in connection with acquisitions of other financial institutions or in connection with our equity compensation plans. Offerings of debt, which would be senior to our common stock upon liquidation, and/or preferred equity securities which may be senior to our common stock for purposes of dividend distributions or upon liquidation, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We may attempt to increase our capital resources or, if our or the Bank’s capital ratios fall below the required minimums, we or the bank could be forced to raise additional capital by making additional offerings of debt or 21 Table of Contents preferred equity securities, including medium-term notes, trust preferred securities, senior or subordinated notes and preferred stock. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and shares of preferred stock and lenders with respect to other borrowings are likely to receive distributions of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing shareholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. Holders of our common stock are not entitled to preemptive rights or other protections against dilution. Our board of directors is authorized to issue one or more classes or series of preferred stock from time to time without any action on the part of the shareholders. Our board of directors also has the power, without shareholder approval, to set the terms of any such classes or series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights, and preferences over our common stock with respect to dividends or upon our dissolution, winding up and liquidation and other terms. If we issue preferred stock in the future that has a preference over our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or if we issue preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of our common stock, the rights of holders of our common stock or the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Our ability to pay dividends is subject to limitations. Declaration of future dividends by our board of directors will depend on a number of factors, including capital requirements, regulatory limitations, our operating results and financial condition and general economic conditions. Future dividends may be subject to prior regulatory review and approval by the Federal Reserve. There can be no assurance that our Board of Directors will seek approval, or that the Federal Reserve will grant approval, of any specific level of dividends. Under guidance issued by the Federal Reserve, as a bank holding company, we are to consult the Federal Reserve before declaring dividends and are to strongly consider eliminating, deferring, or reducing dividends we pay to our shareholders if, among other things, our net income available to shareholders for the past four quarters, net of dividends previously paid during that period, is not sufficient to fully fund the dividends. In addition, the Company is a bank holding company and its operations are principally conducted by its bank subsidiary, the Bank. Accordingly, our ability to pay dividends depends on the receipt of dividends from the Bank. As a state chartered bank, the Bank is subject to regulatory restrictions on the payment and amounts of dividends under the Pennsylvania Banking Code. Further, the ability of banking subsidiaries to pay dividends is also subject to their profitability, financial condition, capital expenditures and other cash flow requirements. There is no assurance that our subsidiaries will be able to pay dividends in the future or that we will generate adequate cash flow to pay dividends in the future. The failure to pay dividends on our common stock could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Our management controls a substantial percentage of our stock and therefore has the ability to exercise significant control over our affairs. Our directors and executive officers beneficially own in excess of 10% of our issued and outstanding common stock on a fully diluted basis. Such persons, as a group, will have sufficient votes to strongly influence the outcome of matters submitted to our shareholders, including the election of directors. This concentration of ownership might also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company. Anti-takeover provisions and restrictions on ownership could negatively impact our shareholders. Provisions of Pennsylvania law and our amended and restated articles of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us or have the effect of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire control of us. These provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us even if an acquisition might be in the best interest of our shareholders. In addition, the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, or the BHCA, requires any bank holding company to obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve Board prior to acquiring more than 5% of our outstanding common stock. Any person other than a bank holding company is required to obtain prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board to acquire 10% or more of our 22 Table of Contents outstanding common stock under the Change in Bank Control Act. Any holder of 25% or more of our outstanding common stock, other than an individual, is subject to regulation as a bank holding company under the BHCA. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 