Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in the Company’s common stock is subject to risks inherent to the Company’s business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect the Company are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on, or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair the Company’s business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of the Company’s common stock could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business Growing By Acquisition Entails Certain Risks. On March 31, 2009, we completed a merger with Graystone Financial Corp. and on December 27, 2009, we entered into an agreement providing for the acquisition of First Chester County Corporation, which transaction is expected to close in mid-2010, pending receipt of required regulatory and shareholder approvals and the satisfaction of other conditions. Growth by acquisition involves risks. The success of our acquisitions may depend on, among other things, our ability to realize anticipated cost savings and to combine the businesses of the acquired company with our businesses in a manner that does not result in decreased revenues resulting from disruption of existing customer relationships of the acquired company. If we are not able to achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of an acquisition may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than planned. Further, the asset quality or other financial characteristics of a company we plan to acquire may deteriorate between the date a merger or other acquisition agreement is entered into and the transaction is completed. Depending upon the terms we negotiate in the related merger or acquisition agreement, the deterioration may not allow us to fail to close the proposed transaction, such that we may be required to close the proposed transaction with such a company to the detriment of our future financial condition. Additionally, if a pending acquisition is not completed due to the failure to satisfy certain conditions or otherwise, expenses incurred in connection therewith could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition because we would not have realized the expected benefits. Legislative and regulatory actions taken now or in the future to address the current liquidity and credit crisis in the financial industry may significantly affect our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or stock price. Current economic conditions, particularly in the financial markets, have resulted in government regulatory agencies and political bodies placing increased focus and scrutiny on the financial services industry. The U.S. Government has intervened on an unprecedented scale, enacting and implementing numerous programs and actions targeted at the financial markets generally and the financial services industry in particular. In June 2009, the U.S. Department of the Treasury released a financial regulatory reform plan that would, if enacted, represent the most sweeping reform of financial regulation and financial services in decades. These programs and proposals subject us and other financial institutions to additional restrictions, oversight and costs that may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations or the price of our common stock. If enacted, the Treasury Department’s financial reform plan would substantially increase 9 Table of Contents regulation of the financial services industry and impose restrictions on the operations and general ability of firms within the industry to conduct business consistent with historical practices. Federal and state regulatory agencies also frequently adopt changes to their regulations or change the manner in which existing regulations are applied or enforced. We cannot predict the substance or impact of pending or future legislation, regulation or the application thereof. Compliance with such current and potential regulation and scrutiny may significantly increase our costs, impede the efficiency of our internal business processes, require us to increase our regulatory capital and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities in an efficient manner. A continuation of recent turmoil in the financial markets, particularly if economic conditions worsen more than expected, could have an adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. In recent periods, United States and global markets, as well as general economic conditions, have been disrupted and are volatile. This situation is continuing and, since the beginning of the third quarter of 2008, has worsened significantly. The impact of this situation, together with concerns regarding the financial strength of financial institutions, has led to distress in credit markets and liquidity issues for financial institutions. Some financial institutions around the world have failed; others have been forced to seek acquisition partners. The United States and other governments have taken unprecedented steps to try to stabilize the financial system, including investing in financial institutions. Our business and our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by (1) continued or accelerated disruption and volatility in financial markets, (2) continued capital and liquidity concerns regarding financial institutions generally and our counterparties specifically, (3) limitations resulting from further governmental action in an effort to stabilize or provide additional regulation of the financial system, or (4) recessionary conditions that are deeper or last longer than currently anticipated. A substantial decline in the value of our Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh common stock may adversely affect our financial condition. We own common stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh, or FHLB, in order to qualify for membership in the Federal Home Loan Bank system, which enables us to borrow funds under the Federal Home Loan Bank advance program. The carrying value and fair market value of our FHLB common stock was $6.1 million as of December 31, 2009. Published reports indicate that certain member banks of the Federal Home Loan Bank system may be subject to asset quality risks that could result in materially lower regulatory capital levels. In December 2008, the FHLB had notified its member banks that it had suspended dividend payments and the repurchase of capital stock until further notice is provided. In an extreme situation, it is possible that the capitalization of a Federal Home Loan Bank, including the FHLB, could be substantially diminished or reduced to zero. Consequently, given that there is no market for the FHLB common stock, we believe that there is a risk that this investment could be deemed other than temporarily impaired at some time in the future. If this occurs, it may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Increases in FDIC insurance premiums may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. During 2008 and 2009, higher levels of bank failures have dramatically increased resolution costs of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or FDIC, and depleted the deposit insurance fund. In addition, the FDIC and the U.S. Congress have taken action to increase federal deposit insurance coverage, placing additional stress on the deposit insurance fund. In order to maintain a strong funding position and restore reserve ratios of the deposit insurance fund, the FDIC increased assessment rates of insured institutions uniformly by seven cents for every $100 of deposits beginning with the first quarter of 2009, with additional changes beginning April 1, 2009, which require riskier institutions to pay a larger share of premiums by factoring in rate adjustments based on secured liabilities and unsecured debt levels. To further support the rebuilding of the deposit insurance fund, the FDIC imposed a special assessment on each insured institution, equal to five basis points of the institution’s total assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 10 Table of Contents 2009. For Graystone Tower Bank, this represented a charge of approximately $580 thousand, which was recorded as a pre-tax charge during the second quarter of 2009. The FDIC has indicated that future special assessments are possible, although it has not determined the magnitude or timing of any future assessments. Additionally, on November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule that required insured depository institutions to prepay, on December 30, 2009, their estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011, and 2012, along with their quarterly risk-based assessment for the third quarter of 2009. The amount of the prepayment attributable to the fourth quarter of 2009 and all of 2010 is based upon a bank’s total base assessment rate in effect on September 30, 2009, which would be increased by 3 basis points for 2011 and 2012. In order to determine the amount of the prepayment, the assessment rate (as adjusted) is applied to the assessment base for the third quarter of 2009, increased quarterly to reflect an estimated 5 percent annual growth rate through 2012. Under U.S. GAAP accounting rules, prepaid assessments, unlike special assessments, do not immediately affect bank earnings, although the prepayment reduced Graystone Tower Bank’s’s liquid assets by approximately $6.3 million. Banks record the entire amount of its prepaid assessment as a prepaid expense (asset) as of December 30, 2009 (the date of payment), and will record an expense (charge to earnings) for its regular quarterly assessment and an offsetting credit to the prepaid assessment until the asset is exhausted. We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures, we may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums. Our expenses for the year ended December 31, 2009 have been significantly and adversely affected by these increased and prepaid premiums and the special assessment. These increases and assessment and any future increases in insurance premiums or additional special assessments may materially adversely affect our results of operations. The soundness of other financial services institutions may adversely affect our credit risk. We rely on other financial services institutions through trading, clearing, counterparty, and other relationships. We maintain limits and monitor concentration levels of our counterparties as specified in our internal policies. Our reliance on other financial services institutions exposes us to credit risk in the event of default by these institutions or counterparties. These losses could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in interest rates could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to make a profit, like that of most financial institutions, substantially depends upon our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on interest earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and the interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Changes in interest rates can increase or reduce net interest income and net income. Different types of assets and liabilities may react differently, and at different times, to changes in market interest rates. When interest-bearing liabilities mature or reprice more quickly than interest-earning assets in a period, an increase in market rates of interest could reduce net interest income. When interest-earning assets mature or reprice more quickly than interest-bearing liabilities, falling interest rates could reduce net interest income. Changes in market interest rates are affected by many factors beyond our control, including inflation, unemployment, money supply, international events, and events in the United States and other financial markets. We attempt to manage risk from changes in market interest rates, in part, by controlling the mix of interest rate sensitive assets and interest rate sensitive liabilities. However, interest rate risk management techniques are not exact and a rapid increase or decrease in interest rates could adversely affect our financial performance. 11 Table of Contents Our loan portfolio includes a large number and amount of commercial and industrial loans, and commercial real estate related loans, which have a higher degree of risk than other types of loans. We provide lending services to various types of small businesses, their owners, professionals and other individuals. Commercial loans are generally considered to have a higher degree of risk of default or loss than other types of loans, such as residential real estate loans, because repayment may be affected by general economic conditions, interest rates, the quality of management of the business, and other factors that may cause a borrower to be unable to repay its obligations. The current economic downturn may increase this risk of default or loss, which may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. The severity and duration of the current recession and the composition of our loan portfolio could impact the level of loan charge-offs and the provision for loan losses and may affect our net income or loss. National and regional economic conditions could impact the loan portfolio of Graystone Tower Bank. For example, an increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values or increases in interest rates, as well as other factors, could further weaken the economies of the communities we serve. Weakness in the market areas it serves could depress our earnings and, consequently, our financial condition because: • borrowers may not be able to repay their loans; • the value of the collateral securing our loans to borrowers may decline; and • the overall quality of our loan portfolio may decline. Any of these scenarios could require that we charge-off a higher percentage of our loans and/or increase our provision for loan losses, which would negatively impact our results of operations. In this regard, in establishing the size of our allowance for loan losses, we makes various general assumptions and judgments about the quality and collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. The amount of our provision for loan losses and the percentage of loans we are required to charge-off may be impacted by adverse developments in and the overall risk composition of the loan portfolio. While we believe that our allowance for loan losses as of December 31, 2009 is sufficient to cover losses inherent in the loan portfolio on that date, we may be required to increase our loan loss provision or charge-off a higher percentage of loans due to adverse developments in or changes in the risk characteristics of the loan portfolio, thereby negatively impacting our results of operations. For example, a decrease in real estate values could cause higher loan losses and require higher loan loss provisions for loans that are secured by real estate. We are required to make a number of judgments in applying accounting policies and different estimates and assumptions in the application of these policies could result in a decrease in capital and/or other material changes to our reports of financial condition and results of operations. Material estimates that are particularly susceptible to significant change relate to the determination of the allowance for loan losses and reserve for unfunded lending commitments, the effectiveness of derivatives and other hedging activities, the fair value of certain financial instruments (securities, derivatives, and privately held investments), income tax assets or liabilities (including deferred tax assets and any related valuation allowance), share-based compensation, and accounting for acquisitions, including the fair value determinations and the analysis of goodwill impairment. While we have identified those accounting policies that are considered critical and have procedures in place to facilitate the associated judgments, different assumptions in the application of these policies could result in a decrease to net income and, possibly, capital and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Difficulties in integrating past or future acquisitions could adversely affect our business. We have spent and may continue to spend significant resources identifying businesses to acquire. The efficient and effective integration of any businesses Tower acquires into its organization is critical to our growth. Our 12 Table of Contents completed acquisition of Graystone Financial Corp., our pending acquisition of First Chester County Corporation, and any future acquisitions, involve numerous risks including difficulties in integrating the culture, operations, technologies and personnel of the acquired companies, the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns and the potential loss of customers. Failure to successfully integrate the operations of Graystone and First Chester could also harm our business, results of operations and cash flows. We plan to pursue a growth strategy and there are risks associated with rapid growth. Prior to our merger with Graystone Financial Corp., Graystone had experienced rapid growth since opening in November 2005. Tower’s management intends to continue to pursue a growth plan, which may include growth by acquisition, as well as leveraging our existing branch network and adding new branch locations in existing and new markets. Our ability to manage growth successfully will depend on our ability to attract qualified personnel and maintain cost controls and asset quality while attracting additional loans and deposits on favorable terms, as well as on factors beyond our control, such as economic conditions and competition. If we grow too quickly and are not able to attract qualified personnel, control costs and maintain asset quality, this continued rapid growth could materially adversely affect our financial performance. We may elect or need to seek additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when needed. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In the future, we may elect or need to raise additional capital. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital if needed on acceptable terms. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to expand our operations through internal growth or acquisitions could be materially impaired. Future acquisitions could dilute your ownership of our common stock and may cause us to become more susceptible to adverse economic events. We may issue shares of our common stock in connection with future acquisitions and other investments, which would dilute your ownership interest in Tower. While there is no assurance that these transactions will occur, or that they will occur on terms favorable to us, future business acquisitions could be material to us, and the degree of success achieved in acquiring and integrating these businesses into Tower could have a material effect on the value of our common stock. In addition, these acquisitions could require us to expend substantial cash or other liquid assets or to incur debt, which could cause us to become more susceptible to economic downturns and competitive pressures. Our controls and procedures may fail or could be circumvented. Our management has implemented a series of internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures in order to ensure accurate financial control and reporting. However, any system of controls, no matter how well designed and operated, can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and/or procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operation and financial condition. Loss of our senior executive officers or other key employees could impair our relationship with our customers and adversely affect our business. We have assembled a senior management team which has substantial background and experience in banking and financial services in the markets it serves. Loss of these key personnel could negatively impact our earnings because of their skills, customer relationships and/or the potential difficulty of promptly replacing them. 13 Table of Contents An interruption or breach in security with respect to our information systems, as well as information systems of our outsourced service providers, could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. We continually encounter technological change. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to effectively embrace technology efficiencies to better serve customers and reduce costs. Failure to keep pace with technological change could potentially have an adverse effect on our business operations and financial condition. Strong competition within our market area may limit our growth and profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. We compete actively with other Pennsylvania and Maryland financial institutions, many larger than us, as well as with financial and non-financial institutions headquartered elsewhere. Commercial banks, savings banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, and money market funds actively compete for deposits and loans. Such institutions, as well as consumer finance, insurance companies and brokerage firms, may be considered competitors with respect to one or more services they render. We will likely be generally competitive with all institutions in our service areas with respect to interest rates paid on time and savings deposits, service charges on deposit accounts, interest rates charged on loans and fees for trust and investment advisory services. Many of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits and may offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. Our profitability depends upon our ability to successfully compete in our market area. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. Tower and Graystone Tower Bank are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by certain state and federal agencies including the FDIC, as insurer of Graystone Tower Bank’s deposits, the Federal Reserve, as regulator of Tower, and the Pennsylvania Department of Banking, as regulator of Pennsylvania chartered banks. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily to ensure the safety and soundness of financial institutions. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on operations, the classification of assets and determination of the level of the allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and this may make it difficult for you to resell shares of common stock owned by you at times or at prices you find attractive. The price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market constantly changes. We expect that the market price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate and there can be no assurance about the market prices for our common stock. Our stock price may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • our financial condition, performance, creditworthiness and prospects; 14 Table of Contents • quarterly variations in our operating results or the quality of our assets; • operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance; • announcements of innovations, new products, strategic developments, significant contracts, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors; • the operating and securities price performance of other companies that investors believe are comparable to us; • future sales of our equity or equity-related securities; • the credit, mortgage and housing markets, the markets for securities relating to mortgages or housing, and developments with respect to financial institutions generally; • changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, stock, commodity or real estate valuations or volatility and other geopolitical, regulatory or judicial events; and • the relatively low trading volume of our common stock. The trading volume in our common stock is less than that of other financial services companies. Our common stock has been listed on the NASDAQ Global Market under the symbol “TOBC” since April 6, 2009. The average daily trading volume for shares of our common stock is less than other financial services companies. Given the lower trading volume of our common stock, the sale of a significant number of these shares, or the expectation of such sales, could adversely affect the market price of our stock. We may issue additional common stock or other equity securities in the future which could dilute the ownership interest of existing shareholders. In order to maintain our capital at desired or regulatory-required levels or to replace existing capital, we may issue additional shares of common stock, or securities convertible into, exchangeable for or representing rights to acquire shares of common stock. We are generally not restricted from issuing such additional shares. We may sell any shares that we issue at prices below the current market price of our common stock, and the sale of these shares may significantly dilute shareholder ownership. We could also issue additional shares in connection with acquisitions of other financial institutions. Offerings of debt, which would be senior to our common stock upon liquidation, and/or preferred equity securities which may be senior to our common stock for purposes of dividend distributions or upon liquidation, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We may attempt to increase our capital resources or, if our or Graystone Tower Bank’s capital ratios fall below the required minimums, we or the Bank could be forced to raise additional capital by making additional offerings of debt or preferred equity securities, including medium-term notes, trust preferred securities, senior or subordinated notes and preferred stock. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and shares of preferred stock and lenders with respect to other borrowings are likely to receive distributions of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing shareholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. Holders of our common stock are not entitled to preemptive rights or other protections against dilution. Our board of directors is authorized to issue one or more classes or series of preferred stock from time to time without any action on the part of the shareholders. Our board of directors also has the power, without shareholder approval, to set the terms of any such classes or series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting 15 Table of Contents rights, dividend rights, and preferences over our common stock with respect to dividends or upon our dissolution, winding up and liquidation and other terms. If we issue preferred stock in the future that has a preference over our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or if we issue preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of our common stock, the rights of holders of our common stock or the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Our ability to pay dividends is subject to limitations. Tower Bancorp is a bank holding company and its operations are principally conducted by its subsidiary bank, Graystone Tower Bank. Accordingly, our ability to pay dividends depends on the receipt of dividends from Graystone Tower Bank. As a state chartered bank, Graystone Tower Bank is subject to regulatory restrictions on the payment and amounts of dividends under the Pennsylvania Banking Code. Further, the ability of banking subsidiaries to pay dividends is also subject to their profitability, financial condition, capital expenditures and other cash flow requirements. There is no assurance that our subsidiaries will be able to pay dividends in the future or that we will generate adequate cash flow to pay dividends in the future. The failure to pay dividends on our common stock could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Our management controls a substantial percentage of our stock and therefore have the ability to exercise significant control over our affairs. Our directors and executive officers beneficially own in excess of 25% of our issued and outstanding common stock on a fully diluted basis. Such persons, as a group, will have sufficient votes to strongly influence the outcome of matters submitted to our shareholders, including the election of directors. This concentration of ownership might also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of Tower. Anti-takeover provisions and restrictions on ownership could negatively impact our shareholders. Provisions of Pennsylvania law and our amended and restated articles of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us or have the effect of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire control of us. These provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us even if an acquisition might be in the best interest of our shareholders. In addition, the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, or the BHCA, requires any bank holding company to obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve Board prior to acquiring more than 5% of our outstanding common stock. Any person other than a bank holding company is required to obtain prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board to acquire 10% or more of our outstanding common stock under the Change in Bank Control Act. Any holder of 25% or more of our outstanding common stock, other than an individual, is subject to regulation as a bank holding company under the BHCA. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 16 Table of Contents 