Item 1A. Risk Factors The performance of the Company is subject to various risks. We consider the risks described below to be the most significant risks we face, but such risks are not the only risk factors that could affect us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may be adversely affected by economic conditions in the local economies in which we conduct our operations, and in the United States in general. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions may adversely affect our business and profitability. Our business faces various material risks, including credit risk and the risk that the demand for our products and services will decrease. Foreign or domestic terrorism or geopolitical events could shock commodity and financial markets and cause an economic downturn. In an economic downturn, our credit risk and litigation expense would increase. Also, decreases in consumer confidence, real estate values, interest rates and investment returns, usually associated with a downturn, could make the types of loans we originate less profitable. We invest in pools of performing and nonperforming loans that comprise a significant component of our assets and generate substantial interest income with yields that may fluctuate considerably resulting in inconsistent profitability from period to period. As of December 31, 2006, approximately fourteen percent of the Company’s earning assets were invested in loan pools. For the year ended December 31, 2006, approximately seventeen percent of the Company’s gross total revenue was derived from the loan pools. The loan pool investment is a “non-traditional” activity that the Company has been involved with since 1988 that has historically provided a higher return than typical loans and investment securities. The return on the Company’s investment in loan pools and the effect on the Company’s profitability is somewhat unpredictable due to fluctuations in the balance of loan pools and collections from borrowers by the loan pool Servicer. Balances of the loan pools are affected by the ability to purchase additional loan pools to maintain the level of investment and by the payment and refinancing activities of the borrowers resulting in pay-offs of the underlying loans and reduction in the balances. Purchase of the new loan pools are subject to many factors that are outside the Company’s control including: availability, competition, credit and performance quality of assets offered for sale, asset size and type, and the economic and interest rate environment. Collections from the individual borrowers are managed by the Servicer and are affected by the borrower’s financial ability and willingness to pay, foreclosure and legal action, collateral value, and the economy in general. Any of these identified factors, and others not identified, can affect the Company’s return on the loan pool investment. We believe that the higher return historically realized on the loan pool investment compensates for the unpredictability of purchases and collections on the pools. Our growth strategy involves risks that may negatively impact our net income and we may experience difficulties in managing our growth. We may acquire banks and related businesses as part of our growth strategy that we believe provide a strategic and/or a geographic fit with our business. To the extent that we grow through acquisitions, we cannot assure you that we will be able to adequately and profitably manage this growth. There are risks typically associated with acquiring other banks and businesses, including the difficulty and expense of integrating operations and personnel, the possible loss of key customers and/or employees of the acquired business, potential asset quality issues, the potential disruption to our business, diversion of management’s time and attention, and the possibility of unknown or contingent liabilities. In addition to acquisitions, we may expand into new communities by opening “de novo” banks and/or branches. As we expand via the opening of de novo banks or branches, we are likely to incur higher operating expenses relative to operating income from the new operations, which may have an adverse effect on our net income, return on average equity and return on average assets. 9 Table of Contents Our ability to retain and attract qualified employees is critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance. Our people are our most important resource and competition for qualified employees is intense. In order to retain and attract qualified employees, we must compensate such employees at market levels. Typically, those levels have caused employee compensation to be our greatest noninterest expense. If we are unable to continue to retain and attract qualified employees, or if compensation costs required to retain and attract qualified employees becomes more expensive, our performance, including our competitive position, could be affected. Our allowance for loan losses may be insufficient to absorb possible losses in our loan portfolio. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loans in our portfolio that may not be repaid in their entirety. We believe that our allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level adequate to absorb probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio as of the corresponding balance sheet date. However, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially adversely affect our operating results. We are subject to substantial regulation which could adversely affect our business and operations. As a financial institution, we are subject to extensive regulation, which materially affects our business. Statutes, regulations and policies that we are subject to may be changed at any time, and the interpretation and the application of those laws and regulations by our regulators is also subject to change. There can be no assurance that future changes in regulations or in their interpretation or application will not adversely affect us. We have established policies, procedures and systems designed to comply with these regulatory and operational risk requirements. We do, however, face complexity and costs associated with our compliance efforts. Adverse publicity and damage to our reputation arising from the failure or perceived failure to comply with legal, regulatory or contractual requirements could affect our ability to attract and retain customers or could result in enforcement actions, fines, penalties and lawsuits. If we are not able to anticipate and keep pace with rapid changes in technology, or do not respond to rapid technological changes in our industry, our business can be adversely affected. The financial services industry continues to experience rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. As a result, we may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. We are subject to security and operational risks relating to our use of technology that could damage our reputation and our business. Security breaches in our internet banking activities could expose us to possible liability and damage our reputation. Any compromise of our security could also prevent customers from using our internet banking services that involve the transmission of confidential information. We rely on standard internet security systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of data. These precautions may not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of our security measures that could result in damage to our reputation and our business. 10 Table of Contents We are subject to operational risk and an operational failure that could materially adversely affect our business. Operational risk refers to the risk of loss arising from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, and/or systems. Operational risk also refers to the risk that external events, such as external changes (e.g., natural disasters, terrorist attacks and/or health epidemics), failures or frauds, will result in losses to our business. We seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a variety of financial, credit, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems. We employ risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, but those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application may not be adequate to deal with unexpected economic and financial events or the specifics and timing of such events. Employee errors and employee or customer misconduct could subject us to financial losses or regulatory sanctions and seriously harm our reputation. We maintain a system of internal control and insurance coverage to mitigate against operational risks, including data processing system failures and errors and customer or employee fraud. We experience intense competition for loans and deposits. The banking business is highly competitive and we experience competition in all of our markets from many other financial institutions. We compete with large regional banks, local community banks, credit unions, thrifts, securities and brokerage companies, mortgage companies, insurance companies, finance companies, money market mutual funds, and other non-bank financial service providers. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and making loans as well as in providing other financial services. Increased competition in our market may result in a decrease in amounts of our loans and deposits, reduced spreads between loan rates and deposit rates, or loan terms that are more favorable to the borrowers. Any of these could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow and remain profitable. Changing interest rates may adversely affect our profits. The spread between the interest rates earned on investments, loans and loan pools and the interest rates paid on deposits and other interest-bearing liabilities affects, in part, our profitability. Like other financial institutions, our net interest spread and margin will be affected by general economic conditions and other factors that influence market interest rates and our ability to respond to changes in such rates. Our assets and liabilities at any given time will be such that they are affected differently by a given change in interest rates. As a result, an increase or decrease in rates, the length of loan and certificate of deposit terms or the mix of adjustable and fixed rate loans in our portfolio could have a positive or negative effect on our profitability. We measure interest rate risk under various rate scenarios and using specific criteria and assumptions. This process is summarized under Item 7A of Part II of this Form 10-K. Although we believe our current level of interest rate sensitivity is reasonable and effectively managed, significant fluctuations in interest rates may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we do not continue to meet or exceed regulatory capital requirements and maintain our “well-capitalized” status, there could be an adverse effect on the manner in which we do business and on the confidence our customers have in us. Under regulatory capital guidelines, we must meet guidelines that involve quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements could have a material effect on our financial conditions and could subject us to a variety of enforcement actions, as well as certain restrictions on our business. Failure to maintain the status of “well-capitalized” under the regulatory framework could adversely affect the confidence that our customers have in us, which could lead to a decline in the demand for our products and affect the prices that we are able to charge for our products and services. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments NONE 11 Table of Contents 