ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks related to NVE and the Utilities’ Results of Operations Economic conditions could negatively impact our business. Our operations are affected by local, national and global economic conditions. Moreover, the growth of our business depends in part on continued customer growth and tourism demand in our service areas. Over the last several years, adverse economic conditions have created uncertainty within the capital and commodity markets, including availability and cost of credit, inflation rates, monetary policy, unemployment rates and legislative and regulatory uncertainty. A continued high rate of unemployment in Nevada may impact customers’ ability to pay their utility bills on a timely basis, increase customer bankruptcies, and lead to increased bad debt. A lower level of economic activity, changes in discretionary spending, conservation efforts by our customers, and decreased tourism activity in our service areas have resulted in a decline in energy consumption, which has and may continue to affect our future growth. Our operating results will likely fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis. Electric power generation is generally a seasonal business. In many parts of the country, including our service areas, demand for power peaks during the hot summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time. As a result, our operating results in the future will likely fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. In addition, we have historically sold less power, and consequently earned less income, when weather conditions in our service areas are milder. Unusually mild weather in the future could diminish our results of operations and harm our financial condition. Changes in consumer preferences, continuation of current economic conditions both nationally and globally, war, and the threat of terrorism or pandemics may harm our future growth and operating results. Changes in consumer preferences or discretionary consumer spending in the Las Vegas portion of our service area could continue to harm our business. We cannot predict the extent to which the current local economic environment or global economic environment, future terrorist and war activities, or pandemics, in the U.S. and elsewhere may affect us, directly or indirectly. An extended period of reduced discretionary spending and/or disruptions or declines in airline and other travel and business conventions could significantly harm the businesses in and the continued growth of the Las Vegas portion of our service area, which could harm our business and results of operations. Our business operations could be adversely affected by cyber attacks or security breaches. The Utilities are subject to cyber-security risks primarily related to breaches of security pertaining to sensitive customer, employee and vendor information maintained by the Utilities in the normal course of business, as well as breaches of their supervisory 28 Table of Contents control and data acquisition systems and other computer-based systems and networks used in the operation of their businesses. A loss of confidential or proprietary data or security breaches of other computer systems or networks could adversely affect the Utilities’ reputation, diminish customer confidence, adversely affect the Utilities’ ability to manage facilities, networks, systems, programs and data efficiently or effectively, disrupt operations, and subject the Utilities to possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. While the Utilities have procured insurance and have implemented protective measures designed to deter cyber attacks and security breaches and to mitigate their effects, there can be no assurance that such protective measures will be completely effective in protecting the Utilities from a cyber attack or security breach or the effects thereof or that insurance will be sufficient to compensate third parties from damages that result from cyber attacks or security breaches. The Utilities could be subject to penalties if they violate mandatory NERC reliability standards. The Energy Policy Act of 2005 amended the Federal Power Act to, among other matters, provide for mandatory reliability standards designed to assure the reliable operation of the bulk power system. NERC established, and FERC approved, reliability standards that impose certain operating, planning and cyber-security requirements applicable to the Utilities. The Utilities have been, and will continue to be, subject to routine audits and monitoring with respect to compliance with applicable NERC reliability standards, including standards requested by FERC to increase the number of assets (including cyber-security assets) subject to NERC cyber-security standards that are designated as “critical assets.” If the Utilities are found to be in violation of NERC’s mandatory reliability standards, the Utilities could be subject to civil fines imposed by the enforcement entities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Construction projects that we engage in are subject to a number of risks inherent in such projects, which could have adverse effects on our results of operations. The nature of our business requires us to engage in significant construction projects from time to time, and each such construction project is subject to usual construction risks which could adversely affect project costs and completion time. These risks include, but are not limited to, shortages of, the ability to obtain or the cost of labor or materials; the ability of the contractors to perform under their contracts; equipment, engineering and design failure; strikes; adverse weather conditions; the ability to obtain necessary operating permits in a timely manner; legal challenges; disputes with third parties; changes in applicable law or regulations; adverse interpretation or enforcement of permit conditions, laws and regulations by courts or the permitting agencies; other governmental actions; and events in the global economy. If we are unable to complete the development or construction of any construction project or decide to delay or cancel construction, we may not be able to recover our investment in the project and may incur substantial cancellation payments under equipment and construction contracts. Even if a construction project is completed, the total costs may be higher than estimated and/or higher than amounts approved by our regulators, and there is no guarantee that we will be allowed to recover these costs in rates. In addition, construction delays can result in the delay of revenues and, therefore, could affect our results of operations. The ownership and operation of certain power generation and transmission lines on Indian lands could result in uncertainty related to continued leases, easements and rights-of-way, which could have a significant impact on our business. Certain portions of the Utilities’ generating facilities and transmission lines that carry power from these facilities are located on Indian lands pursuant to leases, easements or other rights-of-way that are effective for specified periods. The Utilities are currently unable to predict the final outcome of discussions with the appropriate Indian tribes and approval by their respective governing bodies with respect to renewals of these leases, easements and rights-of-way. Risks related to NVE and the Utilities’ Regulatory Proceedings If the Utilities do not receive favorable rulings in their future GRCs or other regulatory filings, including energy efficiency recovery programs, such events may have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and future results of operations. The Utilities’ revenues and earnings are subject to change as a result of regulatory proceedings known as GRCs, which the Utilities file with the PUCN approximately every three years. In the Utilities’ GRCs, the PUCN establishes, among other things, their recoverable rate base, their ROE, overall ROR, depreciation rates and their cost of capital. For a discussion of NPC’s and SPPC’s recent GRCs, see Note 3, Regulatory Actions, of the Notes to Financial Statements. We cannot predict what the PUCN will direct in their orders on the Utilities’ future GRCs or other regulatory filings, including energy efficiency recovery programs. Inadequate rates may have a significant adverse effect on the Utilities’ financial condition and future results of operations and may cause downgrades of their securities by the rating agencies and make it 29 Table of Contents significantly more difficult or expensive to finance operations and construction projects and to buy fuel, natural gas and purchased power from third parties. If the Utilities do not receive favorable rulings in the deferred energy applications that they file with the PUCN and they are unable to recover their deferred purchased power, natural gas and fuel costs, including changes in prices due to suspension of hedging programs, they will experience an adverse impact on cash flow and earnings. Any significant disallowance of deferred energy charges in the future could materially adversely affect their cash flow, financial condition and liquidity. Under Nevada law, purchased power, natural gas and fuel costs in excess of those included in base rates are deferred as an asset on the Utilities’ balance sheets and are not shown as an expense until recovered from their retail customers. The Utilities are required to file DEAA applications with the PUCN at least once every twelve months so that the PUCN may verify the prudence of the energy costs. Nevada law also requires the PUCN to act on these cases within a specified time period. Any of these costs determined by the PUCN to have been imprudently incurred cannot be recovered from the Utilities’ customers. For a discussion of NPC’s and SPPC’s recent and pending deferred energy rate cases, see Note 3, Regulatory Actions, of the Notes to Financial Statements. Material disallowances of deferred energy costs or inadequate BTERs would have a significant adverse effect on the Utilities’ financial condition and future results of operations, could cause downgrades of NVE’s and the Utilities’ securities by the rating agencies and could make it more difficult or expensive to finance operations and construction projects and buy fuel, natural gas and purchased power from third parties. The Utilities purchase a portion of the power that they sell to their customers from power suppliers. If the Utilities’ and/or their power suppliers’ credit ratings are downgraded, the Utilities may experience difficulty entering into new power supply contracts, and to the extent that they must rely on the spot market, they may experience difficulty obtaining such power from suppliers in the spot market in light of their financial condition, or the financial condition of their power suppliers. In addition, if the Utilities experience unexpected failures or outages in their generation facilities, they may need to purchase a greater portion of the power they provide to their customers. If access to liquidity is limited to obtain their power requirements, particularly for NPC at the onset of the summer months, and the Utilities are unable to obtain power through other means, their business, operations and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. If the Utilities cannot maintain the required level of renewable energy or procure sufficient solar energy to meet Nevada’s increasing Portfolio Standard, the PUCN may, among other things, impose an administrative fine for noncompliance. Nevada law sets forth the Portfolio Standard requiring providers of electric service to acquire, generate or save from renewable energy systems or energy efficiency measures a specific percentage of its total retail sales from renewable energy sources or efficiency measures, which increases over time. The standard also includes a specific requirement for solar energy that must be met on an annual basis by both Utilities. The required amount of renewable energy and available supply can fluctuate widely based on multiple factors, including customer energy use, changes in law or regulation, renewable resource availability, and the financial stability of renewable counter parties, making the ability to anticipate future renewable energy needs and supplies difficult. In the event the Utilities do not fully meet the standards in a given year, if the PUCN does not exempt them, they will be required to make up the PEC deficiency in subsequent years and may be subject to a financial penalty. In 2011, the Utilities were required to obtain an amount of PECs equivalent to 15% of their total retail energy from renewables. The Portfolio Standard remains at 15% for 2012, increases to 18% for 2013 and 2014, and reaches 20% in 2015, after which it increases again to 22% for the years 2020 through 2024, and to 25% for 2025 and beyond. Moreover, not less than 5% of the total Portfolio Standard must be met from solar resources until 2016, when a minimum of 6% must be solar. In the event the Utilities do not fully meet the standard in a given year, if the PUCN does not exempt them, they will be required to make up the PEC deficiency in subsequent years. Due to periodic increases in the Portfolio Standard and increasing retail sales, the Utilities must acquire increasing amounts of renewable energy. Since most of the Utilities’ renewable energy requirement is met by deliveries from third party suppliers, the Utilities’ success in meeting the increasing Portfolio Standard remains largely dependent on the ability of those third parties to meet minimum contractual obligations over the duration of the contract. Similarly, self-owned generation and expected contributions from qualified conservation and energy efficiency measures would need to deliver and be certified by the PUCN as forecasted in each forecast year. In 2011, the PUCN issued an order certifying that both Utilities had met the Portfolio Standard (and the solar requirement) and that NPC had eliminated any previous deficiency from 2010. While both Utilities were successful in 2011 with respect to the Portfolio Standard, the intermittent and variable nature of the renewable portfolio, together with the increasing required renewable percentage, means that future years may still be subject to uncertainty around the Utilities’ ability to comply with the Portfolio Standard. 30 Table of Contents The Utilities’ ability to access the capital markets is dependent on their ability to obtain regulatory approval to do so. The Utilities will need to continue to support capital expenditures and to refinance maturing debt through external financing. The Utilities must obtain regulatory approval in Nevada in order to borrow money or to issue securities and are therefore dependent on the PUCN to issue favorable orders in a timely manner to permit them to finance their operations, construction and acquisition costs and to purchase power and fuel necessary to serve their customers. As of December 31, 2011, NPC has financing authority from the PUCN for the period ending December 31, 2013, consisting of authority (1) to issue additional long-term debt securities of up to $725 million; (2) to refinance up to approximately $322.5 million of long-term debt securities; and (3) ongoing authority to maintain a revolving credit facility of up to $1.3 billion. As of December 31, 2011, SPPC has financing authority from the PUCN for the period ending December 31, 2012, consisting of authority to (1) issue additional long-term debt securities of up to $350 million; (2) to refinance approximately $348 million of long-term debt securities; and (3) ongoing authority to maintain a revolving credit facility of up to $600 million. However, we cannot assure you that in the future the PUCN will issue such favorable orders or that such favorable orders will be issued on a timely basis. Risks related to NVE and the Utilities’ Environmental Matters If Federal and/or State requirements are imposed on the Utilities mandating further emission reductions, including greenhouse gases and other pollutants, or if national ambient air quality standards are modified, such requirements could make some electric generating units uneconomical to maintain or operate. Emissions of nitrogen and sulfur oxides, mercury and particulates from fossil fueled generating plants are potentially subject to increased regulations, controls and mitigation expenses. Certain congressional leaders, environmental advocacy groups and regulatory agencies in the U.S. have also been focusing considerable attention on emissions from power generation facilities and their potential role in climate change and/or regional air quality. Moreover, there are many legislative and rulemaking initiatives pending at the federal and state level that are aimed at the reduction of fossil plant emissions, as well as modification of the NAAQS for ozone and other pollutants. We cannot predict the outcome of pending or future legislative and rulemaking proposals. Future changes in environmental laws or regulations governing emissions reductions could make certain electric generating units, especially those utilizing coal for fuel, uneconomical to construct, maintain or operate or could require design changes or the adoption of new technologies that could significantly increase costs or delay in-service dates. In addition, any legal obligation that would require the Utilities to substantially reduce their emissions beyond present levels could require extensive mitigation efforts and, in the case of CO2 legislation or regulation, would raise uncertainty about the future viability of fossil fuels, particularly coal, as an energy source for new and existing electric generation facilities. The Utilities are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations that may increase our cost of operations, impact or limit our business plans, expose us to environmental liabilities, or make some electric generating units uneconomical to maintain or operate. The Utilities are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations can result in increased capital, construction, operating, and other costs. These laws and regulations generally require us to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals, and may be enforced by both public officials and private individuals. We cannot predict the outcome or effect of any action or litigation that may arise from applicable environmental regulations. In addition, either of the Utilities may be identified as a responsible party for environmental cleanup by environmental agencies or regulatory bodies. We cannot predict with certainty the amount or timing of future expenditures related to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating clean up costs. There is also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liabilities on all potentially responsible parties. Environmental regulations may also require us to install pollution control equipment at, or perform environmental remediation on, our facilities. Existing environmental regulations regarding air emissions (such as NOX, SO2 or mercury emissions), water quality, coal combustion by products and other pollutants may be revised or new climate change laws or regulations may be adopted or become applicable to us. Revised or additional laws or regulations, which may result in increased compliance costs, including the adoption of new technologies or additional operating restrictions, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from our customers. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain or maintain all environmental regulatory approvals necessary to our business. If there is a delay in obtaining any required environmental regulatory approval or if we fail to obtain, maintain or comply with any such approval, operations at our affected facilities could be delayed, halted or subjected to additional costs. 31 Table of Contents Risks related to NVE and the Utilities’ Liquidity and Capital Resources Lower than expected investment returns on pension and other postretirement plan assets and other factors may increase NVE’s pension and other postretirement plan liability and funding requirements. Substantially all of NVE employees are covered by a single employer defined benefit pension and other postretirement plan. At present, the pension and other postretirement plan is underfunded in that the projected benefit obligations exceed the aggregate fair value of plan assets. The funded status of the plan can be affected by contributions to plan assets, plan design, investment returns on plan assets, discount rates, mortality rates of plan participants, pension reform legislation and a number of other factors. There can be no assurance that the value of NVE’s pension and other postretirement plan assets will be sufficient to cover future liabilities. Although NVE has made significant contributions to its pension and other postretirement plan in recent years, it is possible that NVE could incur a significant pension and other postretirement liability adjustment, or could be required to make significant additional cash contributions to its plan, which would reduce the cash available for operating activities, and have a material impact on earnings. Refer to Note 11, Retirement Plan and Post-Retirement Benefits, of the Notes to Financial Statements. As a result of the suspension of the Utilities’ hedging programs, the Utilities are subject to fuel and wholesale electricity pricing risks, which could result in unanticipated liabilities and cash flow requirements or increased volatility in our earnings, and to related credit and liquidity risks. Beginning in October 2009, the Utilities suspended their hedging programs; however, prior to the suspension, it was the general policy of the Utilities to purchase hedges three seasons ahead. As a result certain hedges entered into prior to the suspension in October 2009, did not terminate until 2011. As of November 2011, all hedging transactions have expired or terminated and the Utilities remain unhedged. If deemed prudent, the Utilities may still purchase hedging instruments in the event circumstances occur that may have the potential to increase the cost of fuel and purchased power. As such, fluctuating commodity prices could have a material adverse effect on their cash flows and their ability to operate and, consequently, on our financial condition. The Utilities’ business and operations are subject to changes in purchased power prices and fuel costs that may cause increases in the amounts they must pay for power supplies on the wholesale market and the cost of producing power in their generation plants. Prices for electricity, fuel and natural gas may fluctuate substantially over relatively short periods of time and expose the Utilities to significant commodity price risks. Increasing energy commodity prices, particularly with respect to natural gas, have a significant effect on our short-term liquidity. Although the Utilities are entitled to recover their prudently incurred power, natural gas and fuel costs through deferred energy rate case filings with the PUCN, if current commodity prices increase, the Utilities’ deferred energy balances will increase, which will negatively affect our cash flow and liquidity until such costs are recovered from customers. The Utilities are also subject to credit risk for losses that they incur as a result of non-performance by counterparties of their contractual obligations to deliver fuel, purchased power, natural gas (for resale) or settlement payments. The Utilities often extend credit to counterparties and customers and they are exposed to the risk that they may not be able to collect amounts owed to them. Credit risk includes the risk that a counterparty may default due to circumstances relating directly to it, and also the risk that a counterparty may default due to circumstances that relate to other market participants that have a direct or indirect relationship with such counterparty. Should a counterparty, customer or supplier fail to perform, the Utilities may be required to replace existing contracts with contracts at then-current market prices or to honor the underlying commitment. The Utilities are also subject to liquidity risk resulting from the exposure that their counterparties perceive with respect to the possible non-performance by the Utilities of their physical and financial obligations under their energy, fuel and natural gas contracts. These counterparties may under certain circumstances, pursuant to the Utilities’ agreements with them, seek assurances of performance from the Utilities in the form of letters of credit, prepayment or cash deposits, or reduce availability under the Utilities’ revolving credit facilities for negative mark-to-market positions. In periods of price volatility, the Utilities’ exposure levels can change significantly, which could have a significant negative impact on our liquidity and earnings. In the event the Utilities’ credit ratings are downgraded below investment grade, the maximum amount of collateral the Utilities would be required to post is approximately $64.7 million. Additionally, the Utilities shall reduce their availability under their revolving credit facilities for negative mark-to-market positions on hedging contracts with counterparties who are lenders under the revolving credit facilities provided that the reduction of availability under the revolving credit facilities shall at no time exceed 50% of the total commitments then in effect under the credit facilities. 32 Table of Contents If NVE is precluded from receiving dividends from the Utilities, its financial condition, and its ability to meet its debt service obligations, pay dividends and make capital contributions to its subsidiaries, will be materially adversely affected. Since NVE is a holding company, substantially all of its cash flow is provided by dividends paid to NVE by NPC and SPPC on their common stock, all of which is owned by NVE. Since NPC and SPPC are public utilities, they are subject to regulation by the PUCN, which impose limits on investment returns or otherwise impact the amount of dividends that the Utilities may declare and pay. In addition, certain agreements entered into by the Utilities set restrictions on the amount of dividends they may declare and pay and restrict the circumstances under which such dividends may be declared and paid. As a result of the Utilities’ credit rating on their senior secured debt at investment grade by S&P and Moody’s, these restrictions are suspended and no longer in effect so long as the debt remains investment grade by both rating agencies. In addition to the restrictions imposed by specific agreements, the Federal Power Act prohibits the payment of dividends from “capital accounts.” Although the meaning of this provision is unclear, the Utilities believe that the Federal Power Act restriction, as applied to their particular circumstances, would not be construed or applied by the FERC to prohibit the payment of dividends for lawful and legitimate business purposes from current year earnings, or in the absence of current year earnings, from other/additional paid-in capital accounts. If, however, the FERC were to interpret this provision differently, the ability of the Utilities to pay dividends to NVE could be jeopardized. We cannot assure investors that future dividend payments on our Common Stock will be made or, if made, in what amounts they may be paid. Dividends are considered periodically by NVE’s BOD and are subject to factors that ordinarily affect dividend policy, such as current and prospective financial condition, earnings and liquidity, prospective business conditions, regulatory factors, and dividend restrictions in NVE’s and the Utilities’ financing agreements. The BOD will continue to review these factors on a periodic basis to determine if and when it would be prudent to declare a dividend on NVE’s Common Stock; however, there is no guarantee that dividends will be paid in the future, or that, if paid, the dividends will be paid in the same amount or with the same frequency as in the past. NVE’s indebtedness is effectively subordinated to the liabilities of its subsidiaries, particularly NPC and SPPC. NVE and the Utilities have the ability to issue a significant amount of additional indebtedness under the terms of their various financing agreements. Because NVE is a holding company, its indebtedness is effectively subordinated to the Utilities’ existing indebtedness and other future liabilities, including claims by the Utilities’ trade creditors, debt holders, secured creditors, taxing authorities, and guarantee holders. NVE conducts substantially all of its operations through its subsidiaries, and thus NVE’s ability to meet its obligations under its indebtedness and to pay any dividends on its common stock will be dependent on the earnings and cash flows of those subsidiaries and the ability of those subsidiaries to pay dividends or to advance or repay funds to NVE. As of December 31, 2011, the Utilities had approximately $4.6 billion of debt outstanding. The terms of NVE’s indebtedness restrict the amount of additional indebtedness that NVE and the Utilities may issue. Based on NVE’s December 31, 2011 financial statements, NVE’s indebtedness restrictions would allow NVE and the Utilities to issue up to approximately $2.8 billion of additional indebtedness in the aggregate, plus indebtedness that is specifically permitted under the terms of NVE’s indebtedness. In addition, NPC and SPPC are subject to restrictions under the terms of their various financing agreements on their ability to issue additional indebtedness. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 33 Table of Contents 