ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS If NPC and/or SPPC do not receive favorable rulings in their future GRCs, it will have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and future results of operations. The Utilities’ revenues and earnings are subject to change as a result of regulatory proceedings known as GRCs, which the Utilities file with the PUCN approximately every three years. In the Utilities’ GRCs, the PUCN establishes, among other things, their recoverable rate base, their return on common equity, overall rate of return, depreciation rates and their cost of capital. For a discussion of NPC’s and SPPC’s recent GRCs, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Regulatory Proceedings (Utilities)”. We cannot predict what the PUCN will direct in their orders on the Utilities’ pending or future GRCs. Inadequate base energy rates would have a significant adverse effect on the Utilities’ financial condition and future results of operations and could cause downgrades of their securities by the rating agencies and make it significantly more difficult or expensive to finance operations and construction projects and to buy fuel, natural gas and purchased power from third parties. The Utilities plan to make significant capital expenditures to construct new generation and transmission facilities. If we are unable to finance such construction or limit the amount of capital expenditures associated with those facilities to forecasted levels, our financial condition and results of operation could be adversely affected. Our long term business objectives include plans to construct new generation and transmission facilities. Such construction will require significant capital expenditures that the Utilities may finance through significant additional borrowings under the Utilities’ respective credit facilities, through additional debt financings in private or public offerings or through debt or equity financings by SPR. We cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain financing for such capital expenditures on favorable terms, or at all. Neither can we be sure that we will be successful in limiting capital expenditures to planned amounts, particularly in the event of escalating costs for materials, labor and environmental compliance, including the escalating costs for materials, labor and environmental compliance in connection with the construction of coal generation facilities as a result of timing delays and other economic factors. If we cannot obtain favorable financing arrangements for our planned capital expenditures, limit such capital expenditures to forecasted amounts and/or recover amounts spent on construction through future filings with the PUCN, our financial condition and results of operation would be adversely affected. If Federal and/or State requirements are imposed on NPC and SPPC mandating further emission reductions, including limitations on carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions, such requirements could make some electric generating units, including the proposed Ely Energy Center, uneconomical to construct, maintain or operate. Emissions of nitrogen and sulfur oxides, mercury and particulates from fossil fueled generating plants are potentially subject to increased regulations, controls and mitigation expenses. Certain Congressional leaders, environmental advocacy groups and regulatory agencies in the United States have also been focusing considerable attention on carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions from power generation facilities and their potential role in climate change. Particular attention has been focused on proposals for new coal-fired generation facilities, such as the Ely Energy Center, and a number of such proposed facilities have been delayed or cancelled. Moreover, there are many legislative and rulemaking initiatives pending at the federal and state level that are aimed at the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. We cannot predict the outcome of pending or future legislative and rulemaking proposals, their effect on the permitting requirements for the Ely Energy Center, or their effect otherwise on the project overall, including future PUCN review and approval. Future changes in environmental laws or regulations governing emissions reductions could make certain electric generating units, especially those utilizing coal for fuel, uneconomical to construct, maintain or operate or could require design changes or the adoption of new technologies that could significantly increase costs or delay in-service dates. In addition, any legal obligation that would require the Utilities to substantially reduce their emissions beyond present levels could require extensive mitigation efforts and, in the case of CO2 legislation, would raise uncertainty about the future viability of fossil fuels, particularly coal, as an energy source for new and existing electric generation facilities. 26 If the Ely Energy Center is delayed or if the current planning assumptions for the project change materially, the Utilities would need to explore alternative sources of power for meeting the projected electricity demand in their service territories. The most likely alternative to coal generation would involve increased use of natural gas, either through increased use of natural gas fueled purchased power or the construction of additional Utility-owned natural gas generating facilities, or a combination of both. Such increased use of natural gas likely would further subject the Utilities and their customers to natural gas price volatility, as well as to any potential regional supply adequacy issues. The Utilities are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations that may increase our cost of operations, impact or limit our business plans, or expose us to environmental liabilities. The Utilities are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations can result in increased capital, construction, operating, and other costs. These laws and regulations generally require us to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals, and may be enforced by both public officials and private individuals. We cannot predict the outcome or effect of any action or litigation that may arise from applicable environmental regulations. In addition, either of the Utilities may be required to be a responsible party for environmental clean up at sites identified by environmental agencies or regulatory bodies. We cannot predict with certainty the amount or timing of future expenditures related to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating clean up costs. There is also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on all potentially responsible parties. Environmental regulations may also require us to install pollution control equipment at, or perform environmental remediation on, our facilities. Existing environmental regulations regarding air emissions (such as NOx, SO2 or mercury emissions), water quality and other toxic pollutants may be revised or new climate change laws or regulations may be adopted or become applicable to us. Revised or additional laws or regulations, which result in increased compliance costs, increased construction costs or additional operating restrictions, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from our customers and/or if such regulations make currently contemplated construction projects technologically obsolete or economically non-viable. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain or maintain all environmental regulatory approvals necessary to our business. If there is a delay in obtaining any required environmental regulatory approval or if we fail to obtain, maintain or comply with any such approval, operations at our affected facilities could be delayed, halted or subjected to additional costs. The Utilities are subject to fuel and wholesale electricity pricing risks, which could result in unanticipated liabilities and cash flow requirements or increased volatility in our earnings, and to related credit and liquidity risks. The Utilities’ business and operations are subject to changes in purchased power prices and fuel costs that may cause increases in the amounts they must pay for power supplies on the wholesale market and the cost of producing power in their generation plants. As evidenced by the western utility crisis that began in 2000, prices for electricity, fuel and natural gas may fluctuate substantially over relatively short periods of time and expose the Utilities to significant commodity price risks. Among the factors that could affect market prices for electricity and fuel are: • prevailing market prices for coal, oil, natural gas and other fuels used in generation plants, including associated transportation costs, and supplies of such commodities; • further concentration of gas as a source if the Utilities cannot diversify into coal; • changes in the regulatory framework for the commodities markets that they rely on for purchased power and fuel; • liquidity in the general wholesale electricity market; • the actions of external parties, such as the FERC or independent system operators, that may impose price limitations and other mechanisms to address volatility in the western energy markets; • weather conditions impacting demand for electricity or availability of hydroelectric power or fuel supplies; • union and labor relations; • natural disasters, wars, acts of terrorism, embargoes and other catastrophic events; and • changes in federal and state energy and environmental laws and regulations. As a part of the Utilities’ risk management strategy, they focus on executing contracts for power deliveries to the Utilities’ physical points of delivery to mitigate the commodity-related risks listed above. To the extent that open positions exist, fluctuating commodity prices could have a material adverse effect on their cash flows and their ability to operate and, consequently, on our financial condition. 27 Increasing energy commodity prices, particularly with respect to natural gas, have a significant effect on our short-term liquidity. Although the Utilities are entitled to recover their prudently incurred power, natural gas and fuel costs through deferred energy rate case filings with the PUCN, if current commodity prices increase, the Utilities’ deferred energy balances will increase, which will negatively affect our cash flow and liquidity until such costs are recovered from customers. The Utilities are also subject to credit risk for losses that they incur as a result of non-performance by counterparties of their contractual obligations to deliver fuel, purchased power, natural gas (for resale) or settlement payments. The Utilities often extend credit to counterparties and customers and they are exposed to the risk that they may not be able to collect amounts owed to them. Credit risk includes the risk that a counterparty may default due to circumstances relating directly to it, and also the risk that a counterparty may default due to circumstances that relate to other market participants that have a direct or indirect relationship with such counterparty. Should a counterparty, customer or supplier fail to perform, the Utilities may be required to replace existing contracts with contracts at then-current market prices or to honor the underlying commitment. The Utilities are also subject to liquidity risk resulting from the exposure that their counterparties perceive with respect to the possible non-performance by the Utilities of their physical and financial obligations under their energy, fuel and natural gas contracts. These counterparties may under certain circumstances, pursuant to the Utilities agreements with them, seek assurances of performance from the Utilities in the form of letters of credit, prepayment or cash deposits. In periods of price volatility, the Utilities’ exposure levels can change significantly, which could have a significant negative impact on our liquidity and earnings. As of February 22, 2007, NPC had approximately $594.9 million available under its $600 million revolving credit facility and SPPC has approximately $330.5 million available under its $350 million revolving credit facility. The combined effects of higher natural gas prices, significant deferred energy balances and ongoing under-recovery of fuel, energy and natural gas costs may have a negative effect on our short-term liquidity. If NPC and/or SPPC do not receive favorable rulings in the deferred energy applications that they file with the PUCN and they are unable to recover their deferred purchased power, natural gas and fuel costs, they will experience an adverse impact on cash flow and earnings. Any significant disallowance of deferred energy charges in the future could materially adversely affect their cash flow, financial condition and liquidity. Under Nevada law, purchased power, natural gas and fuel costs in excess of those included in base rates are deferred as an asset on the Utilities’ balance sheets and are not shown as an expense until recovered from their retail customers. The Utilities are required to file deferred energy accounting adjustment applications with the PUCN at least once every twelve months so that the PUCN may verify the prudence of the energy costs. Nevada law also requires the PUCN to act on these cases within a specified time period. Any of these costs determined by the PUCN to have been imprudently incurred cannot be recovered from the Utilities’ customers. Past disallowances in the Utilities’ deferred energy cases have been significant, especially the 2002 disallowance of $434 million in NPC’s deferred energy rate case, which resulted in ratings downgrades of our debt securities and adversely affected our liquidity and access to capital markets. For a discussion of NPC’s and SPPC’s recent and pending deferred energy rate cases, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Regulatory Proceedings (Utilities)”. Material disallowances of deferred energy costs, gas costs or inadequate base tariff energy rates would have a significant adverse effect on the Utilities’ financial condition and future results of operations, could cause downgrades of SPR’s and the Utilities’ securities by the rating agencies and could make it more difficult or expensive to finance operations and construction projects and buy fuel, natural gas and purchased power from third parties. Historically, the Utilities have purchased a significant portion of the power that they sell to their customers from power suppliers. If the Utilities’ and/or their power suppliers’ credit ratings are downgraded, the Utilities may experience difficulty entering into new power supply contracts, and to the extent that they must rely on the spot market, they may experience difficulty obtaining such power from suppliers in the spot market in light of their financial condition, or the financial condition of their power suppliers. In addition, if the Utilities experience unexpected failures or outages in their generation facilities, they may need to purchase a greater portion of the power they provide to their customers. If they do not have sufficient funds or access to liquidity to obtain their power requirements, particularly for NPC at the onset of the summer months, and are unable to obtain power through other means, their business, operations and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. If SPR is precluded from receiving dividends from the Utilities, its financial condition, and its ability to meet its debt service obligations, pay dividends and make capital contributions to its subsidiaries, will be materially adversely affected. SPR is a holding company with no significant operations of its own. Its cash flows are substantially derived from dividends paid to it by the Utilities, which are typically utilized to service SPR’s debt and reinvested in SPR’s subsidiaries as contributions to capital. Subject to various factors to be considered periodically by SPR’s Board of Directors, a portion of SPR’s cash flow may be used to make dividend payments on its common stock. 28 The Utilities are subject to restrictions on their ability to pay dividends to SPR under the terms of certain of their respective financing agreements. In addition, certain provisions of the Federal Power Act could, depending on the interpretation thereof, limit or prohibit the payment of dividends to SPR. Assuming that the Utilities meet the requirements to pay dividends under the Federal Power Act, under their material dividend restrictions, each of the Utilities may pay dividends to SPR if each such Utility can meet a 2 to 1 fixed charge coverage ratio test. If that condition is met, the amount of dividends that can be paid is an amount less than 50% of such Utility’s consolidated net income plus the amount of capital contributions made to such Utility by SPR for the period from the date of issuance of the respective series of debt securities to the end of the most recently ended fiscal quarter. If they do not meet these conditions, the Utilities can still pay SPR’s reasonable fees and expenses, provided that each such Utility has a cash flow to fixed charge coverage ratio of at least 1.75:1 over the prior four fiscal quarters. Due to the cumulative calculation of this restriction, NPC’s Series G Notes and SPPC’s Series H Notes are effectively the most restrictive dividend limitations. In addition, under the most restrictive of their dividend restrictions, each of the Utilities has a carve-out that permits them to pay up to $25 million to SPR from the date of issuance of the applicable debt securities, regardless of whether the other conditions to paying dividends have been met. Although each Utility currently meets the conditions described above, a significant loss by either Utility could cause that Utility to be precluded from paying dividends to SPR until such time as that Utility again meets the coverage test. In 2007, SPR received approximately $42.5 million in dividends from the Utilities to meet its debt service obligations. We cannot assure investors that future dividend payments on our Common Stock will be made or, if made, in what amounts they may be paid. On July 28, 2007, SPR’s Board of Director’s declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.08 per share of Common Stock, payable on September 12, 2007 to shareholders of record on August 24, 2007. This dividend was the first declared by the Board since February 2002. On November 1, 2007, the Board declared a quarterly dividend on SPR’s Common Stock of $0.08 per share. This dividend of approximately $17.7 million was paid on December 12, 2007 to shareholders of record on November 19, 2007. Additionally, on February 7, 2008, SPR’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.08 per share payable on March 12, 2008 to common shareholders of record on February 22, 2008. Dividends are considered periodically by SPR’s Board of Directors and are subject to factors that ordinarily affect dividend policy, such as current and prospective financial condition, earnings and liquidity, prospective business conditions, regulatory factors, and dividend restrictions in SPR’s and the Utilities’ financing agreements. The Board will continue to review these factors on a periodic basis to determine if and when it would be prudent to declare a dividend on SPR’s Common Stock. There is no guarantee that dividends will be paid in the future, or that, if paid, the dividends will be paid in the same amount or with the same frequency as in the past. SPR’s indebtedness is effectively subordinated to the liabilities of its subsidiaries, particularly NPC and SPPC. SPR and the Utilities have the ability to issue a significant amount of additional indebtedness under the terms of their various financing agreements. Because SPR is a holding company, its indebtedness is effectively subordinated to the Utilities’ existing indebtedness and other future liabilities, including claims by the Utilities’ trade creditors, debt holders, secured creditors, taxing authorities, and guarantee holders. SPR conducts substantially all of its operations through its subsidiaries, and thus SPR’s ability to meet its obligations under its indebtedness and to pay any dividends on its common stock will be dependent on the earnings and cash flows of those subsidiaries and the ability of those subsidiaries to pay dividends or to advance or repay funds to SPR. As of December 31, 2007, the Utilities had approximately $3.7 billion of debt outstanding. The terms of SPR’s indebtedness restrict the amount of additional indebtedness that SPR and the Utilities may issue. Based on SPR’s December 31, 2007 financial statements, assuming an interest rate of 7%, SPR’s indebtedness restrictions would allow SPR and the Utilities to issue up to approximately $1.1 billion of additional indebtedness in the aggregate, unless the indebtedness being issued is specifically permitted under the terms of SPR’s indebtedness. In addition, NPC and SPPC are subject to restrictions under the terms of their various financing agreements on their ability to issue additional indebtedness. Whether SPR can procure sufficient renewable energy to meet Nevada’s increasing renewable energy Portfolio Standard. Nevada law sets forth the renewable energy portfolio standard (Portfolio Standard) requiring providers of electric service to acquire, generate, or save from renewable energy systems or energy efficiency measures a specific percentage of its total retail energy sales from renewable energy sources, including biomass, geothermal, solar, waterpower and wind projects. The Portfolio Standard requires the energy acquired from a renewable energy system be transmitted or distributed via a power line which is connected to a facility or system, owned, operated or controlled by the Utilities. Other restrictions are placed on energy acquired from energy efficiency measures which may not exceed more than 25 percent of the Portfolio Standard and half of those savings must come from residential customers. In years 2007 and 2008, the Portfolio Standard requires that nine percent (9%) of total retail energy sales come from renewable energy. The Portfolio Standard increases by 3% every other year until it reaches 20% in 2015. Moreover, not less than 5% of the total Portfolio Standard must be met by solar resources. Due to periodic increases in the Portfolio Standard and increasing retail sales, the Utilities must acquire increasing amounts of renewable energy. The Utilities’ success in meeting the increasing Portfolio Standard remains largely dependent on their ability to acquire additional renewable energy from either self-owned renewable generation facilities or the purchase of renewable energy from third-party developers and a decrease in demand through qualified conservation and energy efficiency measures. The Utilities’ ability to access the capital markets is dependent on their ability to obtain regulatory approval to do so. The Utilities will need to continue to support working capital and capital expenditures, and to refinance maturing debt, through external financing. The Utilities must obtain regulatory approval in Nevada in order to borrow money or to issue securities and will therefore be dependent on the PUCN to issue favorable orders in a timely manner to permit them to finance their operations, construction and acquisition costs and to purchase power and fuel necessary to serve their customers. We cannot assure you that the PUCN will issue such orders or that such orders will be issued on a timely basis. 29 Our operating results will likely fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis. Electric power generation is generally a seasonal business. In many parts of the country, including our service areas, demand for power peaks during the hot summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time. As a result, our operating results in the future will likely fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. In addition, we have historically sold less power, and consequently earned less income, when weather conditions in our service areas are milder. Unusually mild weather in the future could diminish our results of operations and harm our financial condition. Changes in consumer preferences, war and the threat of terrorism or epidemics may harm our future growth and operating results. The growth of our business depends in part on continued customer growth and tourism demand in the Las Vegas portion of our service area. Changes in consumer preferences or discretionary consumer spending in the Las Vegas portion of our service area could harm our business. We cannot predict the extent to which future terrorist and war activities, or epidemics, in the United States and elsewhere may affect us, directly or indirectly. An extended period of reduced discretionary spending and/or disruptions or declines in airline travel and business conventions could significantly harm the businesses in and the continued growth of the Las Vegas portion of our service area, which could harm our business and results of operations. In addition, instability in the financial markets as a result of war, terrorism or epidemics may affect our ability to raise capital. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS SPR, NPC and SPPC have received no written comments regarding their periodic or current reports from the SEC staff that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of their 2007 fiscal year and that remain unresolved. ITEM 