Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders Item 4A. Executive Officers of Registrant PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6. Selected Consolidated Financial Data Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9. Changes In and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13. Certain Relationships, Related Transactions, and Director Independence Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules SIGNATURES Exhibit 21 - Subsidiaries of Technology Research Corporation Exhibit 23 - Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Exhibit 31.1 - Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 Exhibit 31.2 - Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 Exhibit 32.1 - Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 Exhibit 32.2 - Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 As used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, “we”, “our”, “us”, the “Company” and “TRC” all refer to Technology Research Corporation and its subsidiary unless the context otherwise requires. DISCLOSURE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and any forward looking statements made herein are based on our current expectations, involve a number of risks and uncertainties and should not be considered as guarantees of future performance. Such statements may be identified by terminology such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “expects,” “scheduled,” “plans,” “intends,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “potential,” or “continue,” or the negative of such terms, or other comparable terminology. These statements are only predictions, and actual events as well as results may differ materially. In evaluating these statements, you should specifically consider the information described in the “Risk Factors” and other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission such as our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our current reports on Form 8-K. Other key factors include, but are not limited to, the acceptance of any new products, such as Fire Shield®, the effective utilization of our Honduran manufacturing facility and Far East contract manufacturers, changes in manufacturing efficiencies, the impact of competitive products and pricing and interruptions of or cancellation of existing orders or contracts. We cannot provide any assurance that predicted future results, levels of activity, performance or goals will be achieved, and we disclaim any obligation to revise any forward-looking statements subsequent to events or circumstances or the occurrence of unanticipated events. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof and of information currently and reasonably known. All references to fiscal years apply to our fiscal years, which ended March 31, 2009, March 31, 2008 and March 31, 2007. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS OVERVIEW Technology Research Corporation is an internationally recognized leader in the design, manufacture and marketing of electrical safety products that save lives, protect people against serious injury from electrical shock and/or prevent electrical fires in the home and workplace. Based on our core technology in ground fault sensing and leakage current detection, our products are designed to meet the needs of the consumer, commercial and industrial markets worldwide. TRC also designs and supplies power monitoring and control equipment to the United States military and its prime contractors for its tactical vehicles, naval vessels and mobile electric generators. TRC was incorporated in Florida in 1981. Our principal offices are located at 5250-140th Avenue North, Clearwater, Florida 33760, our telephone number is (727) 535-0572 and our website can be accessed at www.trci.net. Information contained or referenced on our website is not incorporated by reference into, and does not form a part of, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our operating strategy is to grow revenue and improve operating margin in our military, recreational vehicle, industrial and consumer markets as well as closely aligned markets if they share similar products or have other synergies. We plan to achieve these growth goals through internal development of new products, acquisitions, strategic partnerships and licensing. We have undertaken a number of initiatives to lower costs, improve asset turnover and reduce our risk. These initiatives include, but are not limited to, product line simplification, establishing product platforms in design, greater utilization of our operations in Honduras, utilizing new designs and operations software to improve quality, accelerate product development and reduce the cost of redesigned products. We plan to pursue our operating strategy; however, actual results could differ materially from those projected or assumed in any of our forward-looking statements within this report. Our future financial condition and results of operations, as well as our operational and financial expectations, are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties. Some, but not all, of the factors impacting these risks and uncertainties are set forth below in the section entitled “Risk Factors.” We file reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K. Copies of our reports filed with the SEC may be obtained by the public at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549, or by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The information provided on our website is not part of this report, and is therefore not incorporated by reference unless such information is otherwise specifically referenced elsewhere in this report. GENERAL We make available free of charge through our website at www.trci.net, via a link to the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. You may also obtain free copies of these materials by contacting our Chief Financial Officer, Thomas G. Archbold, at our mailing address of 5250 - 140th Avenue North, Clearwater, Florida 33760, telephone (727) 535-0572. Revenue (in thousands) contributed by commercial and military products and royalties from license agreements are as follows: Year ended March 31, Commercial % Military % Royalties % Total 2009 $ 18,582 55.1 $ 14,674 43.5 $ 477 1.4 $ 33,733 2008 22,680 61.0 14,152 38.1 328 0.9 37,160 2007 26,471 69.7 11,521 30.3 - 0.0 37,992 2006 32,250 70.7 13,370 29.3 - 0.0 45,620 2005 27,022 68.5 12,269 31.1 142 0.4 39,433 Our backlog of unshipped orders as of March 31, 2009 was approximately $15.2 million, as compared to approximately $8.6 million as of March 31, 2008. This backlog consists of approximately 9% of commercial product orders and approximately 91% of military product orders, all of which are expected to ship within the year ended March 31, 2010. The increase in backlog is principally due our prime military customer releasing full calendar year orders prior to the closing of our fiscal year. Our unshipped backlog orders include orders for products where written customer requests have been accepted and the delivery of products is anticipated within the next 12 months. Our policy is to make adjustments to our backlog to reflect, among other things, customer delivery date changes as well as order cancellations. We schedule production based upon purchase orders in backlog and our customer’s delivery requirements. Generally, our orders may be changed, rescheduled or cancelled with limited penalties prior to shipment, although our military backlog is generally non-cancellable. For these reasons, our backlog at any particular date is not necessarily indicative of future sales for any succeeding period. Commercial Products and Markets Core Commercial Products. Our core commercial business was developed out of the demand for the following Underwriters Laboratories (“UL”) classifications of ground fault protective devices: Ground Fault Circuit Interrupters (“GFCI”); Equipment Leakage Current Interrupters (“ELCI”); Portable Residual Current Devices (“PRCD”); and Leakage Current Detection Interrupters (“LCDI”). Ground fault protective devices help protect against the hazards of fire and electrical shock that result when water comes in contact with electrically “live” conductors or when faulty electrical grounding is found in old or damaged extension cords, appliance cords, house wiring and electrical equipment. The demand for our commercial products has resulted from the National Electrical Code (“NEC”) requirements, UL product standards and voluntary efforts by industry to improve the electrical safety of commercial products. Electrical safety is compromised when a ground fault occurs, which is a condition where electric current finds an abnormal path to ground, such as when a power tool comes in contact with water while plugged into a live outlet or when it is damaged in such a way as to cause internal wiring to come in contact with exposed metal parts allowing electricity to pass through the user of that power tool. Upon such occurrence, the entire device can become as electrically alive as the power line to which it is attached. If a person is touching such a live device while grounded (by being in contact with the ground or, for example, a metal pipe, gas pipe, drain or any attached metal device), that person can be seriously or fatally injured by electric shock. Fuses or circuit breakers do not provide adequate protection against such shock, because the amount of current necessary to injure or kill a human or animal is far below the level of current required for a fuse to blow or a circuit breaker to trip. Our GFCI, ELCI and PRCD are all ground fault devices providing protection from dangerous electrical shock by sensing leakage of electricity and cutting off power. Ground fault devices are currently available in three types: circuit breaker, receptacle and portable. We specialize in the portable types of these products. Ground fault devices constantly monitor electric current, and as long as the amount of current returning from the device is equal to the amount that is directed to the device, the GFCI performs no activities. Conversely, if there is less current coming back than there is flowing into the device, some portion must be taking a path through a foreign body, thereby creating a hazard. Upon recognizing that condition, the ground fault device terminates the flow of electricity instantaneously. Ground fault devices range in rating from 120V/15A to 600V/80A (the largest are from our unique HD-PRO family of products). Our LCDI devices are intended to reduce the risk of electrical fires by disconnecting power when sensing current leakage between conductors of power cords. Our Fire Shield® product lines are approved in the UL classification of LCDIs. Several years ago, both government and industry research into the major causes of fire led to a search for new, cost-effective methods to prevent electrical fires. In response to this need, we developed and patented Fire Shield®, a product designed to prevent fires caused by damaged or aging appliance power supply cords and extension cords, which have been identified as a leading cause of electrical fires. Our Fire Shield® technology currently addresses four distinct market applications: (i) the Fire Shield® Power Surge Strip - a consumer product; (ii) the Fire Shield® Safety Circuit - an OEM product; (iii) the Fire Shield® Power Cord - an OEM product; and (iv) the Fire Shield® Safety Extension Cord - a consumer product. We will continue to sell the finished good products to the consumer and institutional markets. Total sales for the Room Air Conditioner (“RAC”) market were again lower in fiscal 2009 as a result of shifting our focus to a limited number of customers and exploring opportunities for licensing our intellectual property to service the market. For fiscal 2010, we expect to see further declines in our RAC market as we continue our efforts to focus on a limited number of customers. Our line of Surge Guard™ and Surge Guard Plus™ products are designed to meet the rigorous requirements of the recreational vehicle (“RV”) market. These products provide power protection and have both OEM and after-market applications. In addition, we have introduced the Surge Guard Automatic Transfer Switch, which incorporates a transfer switch into the functionality of our Surge Guard products, thus eliminating the need for two separate products. In December 2008, we introduced the 30 Amp and 50 Amp Surge Guard RV Voltage Regulators to our recreational vehicle power protection product line. The Surge Guard Voltage Regulators are intended for use with RVs to provide a reliable source of power when experiencing low RV park input voltage. This product will automatically and continually monitor line voltage conditions and boost voltage to an acceptable level to help prevent low voltage damage to the RV’s appliances and electronic devices. The Surge Guard Voltage Regulators will be sold exclusively at Camping World stores nationwide until August 2009. We expect considerable sales to other RV retailers and catalogers after August. Research, Development and Engineering We place substantial emphasis on new product development and believe that continued investment in product development is required to maintain and improve our competitive position. Our product development activities emphasize new proprietary products, enhancement of existing products and process technologies. Our research and development and product development activities occur in Clearwater, Florida. Our Engineering Department is engaged in designing and developing new commercial and military products and improving existing products to meet the needs of our customers. In connection with our efforts to develop new products, we have directed our focus on “Engineer to Engineer” type solutions. What this means is that we are working on long term type contracts where we supply our technology to other OEMs for the equipment and products they manufacture. The OEM equipment can be for commercial, industrial or military applications, but is usually application specific in nature. In addition to these applications, we are enhancing our line of Recreational Vehicle (RV) power-type products to include more sophisticated devices through new and existing channels. We have developed a power management system architecture that uses a new RVIA approved protocol called RV-C that can be used for power management of lighting, transfer switches, room slide-outs, pumps, awnings security features, diagnostics and other user information. We are scheduled for our first system implementation in June 2009. We also developed and introduced new RV aftermarket products including a Voltage Regulator and a Plastic Lock Hasp. During the past year we have improved our engineering capabilities by hiring additional engineers with advance capabilities in electronics simulation, firmware and mechanical engineering. We have also introduced new tools for mechanical simulation and finite element analysis, electronics modeling simulation, vibration testing and an advanced documentation database. In addition to our focus on new product development, we continue to look at ways to reduce cost and improve the value proposition to our customers with our existing products. We are currently redesigning the critical components in our GFCI products to reduce cost and increase quality and reliability. We spent $2.4 million, $1.9 million and $2.0 million in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, on research, development and engineering activities, and we anticipate spending levels at approximately 7% of revenue in fiscal 2010. All engineering activities are expensed as incurred. Marketing, Sales and Distribution Our products are sold throughout the world, primarily through an in-house sales force, through product licensing agreements and sales and marketing agreements. We will continue to market existing and new products through these channels. In addition, we are looking for other viable channels through which to market our products. We rely heavily upon the marketing skills and experience, as well as the business experience, of our management personnel in marketing our products. We complement our sales and marketing activities through the use of additional distributors and sales representative organizations. Our sales efforts in the industrial/construction market is supported by utilizing approximately 30 independent sales representatives who sell to over 1,500 electrical, industrial and safety distributors. The majority of our sales, however, are made through our in-house sales force. We exhibit our products at numerous trade shows, which have resulted in new commercial markets including the recreational vehicle industry and the appliance industry. We also market through OEMs, both domestically and internationally, that sell our products as a component of an end user product or under their own brand names (“private label”). We continue to implement a “value-add” upgrade strategy, which provides a finished product to those who private label our products and who are currently only receiving subassembly modules. Our plastic and receptacle molding capabilities are a key factor in providing “value add” upgrades to our customers. Commercial/Industrial Markets. We market and sell our GFCI, ELCI (including the heavy duty HD-PRO products), LCDI and our cable protection and management products to the commercial/industrial market. This market is served through over 1,500 electrical and safety distributors and a number of catalogers. These electrical distributors include branches of major chains as well as smaller independent distributors. Catalogers range from safety to industrial and electrical suppliers. We also private label products for a number of industry leaders to help penetrate this market. Consumer/Retail Markets. We currently market and sell various portable GFCI, LCDI and other specialty products to the consumer market. Our major retail customers include Wal-Mart, Home Depot, Meijers, and Ace Hardware, as well as with many independent retailers. Our products are also being offered through magazines, catalogs and E-commerce retailers such as Amazon.com. We continue to have success selling our aftermarket RV Surge Guard products through retailers such as Camping World and distributors. We are now one of Camping World’s top 30 suppliers. In fiscal 2009, we continued our growth and marketing in niche markets such as in the college and university segment of the consumer market with our Fire Shield® LCDI products. A number of colleges and universities are either mandating, or strongly suggesting the use of LCDI protected extension cords and surge strips on campus. In turn, this helps drive our revenue through retailers. Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs). We also sell products to OEMs, both domestically and internationally, that sell our products as a component of an end user product. We primarily sell GFCI, ELCI, LCDI and RV Surge Guard and Surge Guard Plus products to this market. The OEM market can also be significantly impacted by new and revised product standards as outlined below: Impact of New and Revised Product Standards. The NEC requires ground fault protection on many applications, which are enforced by OSHA and local government building codes and adhered to by most manufacturers. We presently focus our marketing efforts in certain spot markets, which have developed in response to NEC imposed requirements. The NEC requirements are often incorporated into UL product standards. In addition, Article 625 of the NEC requires electric vehicle (“EV”) charging systems to include a system that will protect people against serious electric shock in the event of a ground fault. We have shipped product to the majority of the major automobile manufacturers in support of their small EV production builds. Sales for our EV safety products remain relatively low due to the small number of electric vehicles produced. Improvements in battery technology along with mandates from individual states for zero emission vehicles, will determine whether this will be a viable market in the future. An important change in OSHA Regulations in 2007 broadened the requirements for using portable GFCIs in most industries. This new regulation extends GFCI use requirements for the first time to OSHA’s General Industry category of businesses which cover most of the rest of U.S. industry with the exception of agriculture, mining and maritime. Now, in order to comply with OSHA Regulations, a great deal of maintenance, remodeling or repair activities involving buildings, structures or equipment must be done with workers using GFCI protected equipment. Our sales personnel and representative organizations are finding a significant amount of new opportunities for sales of the Company’s Shock Shield® and TRC Power products to industrial supply distributors. Other distribution channels catering to buyers of equipment and supplies throughout U.S. industry are also being targeted. License Agreements. From time to time, we enter into license and sales and marketing agreements concerning our portable GFCI, ELCI and LCDIs products. These agreements are intended to assist our market penetration into those areas where it would be difficult for us to compete on a direct basis and provide the best return on investment to us. Military Products and Markets We design and manufacture products for sale to the military engine generator set controls market. Our expertise in this area is well known, and our performance in product quality and delivery to the United States military and its prime contractors have resulted in our being recognized as a leader in this industry. The Defense Logistics Agency established a program rating system for its suppliers in 1995 for product quality, packaging and on-time deliveries, and since its inception and for the thirteenth straight year, we have been honored as a Best Value Medalist for the highest rating Gold Category, which signifies our commitment to military contract performance. We are currently a supplier of control equipment used in engine generator systems purchased by the United States military and its prime contractors. The term “control equipment” refers to the electrical controls used to control the electrical power output of the generating systems. In general, the controls monitor and regulate the operation of engine generator mobile electric generating system sets. Electric generating systems are basic to all branches of the military, and demand is generally less volatile than products utilized in armaments and missiles. Sales are made either directly to the government for support parts or to prime contractors for new production electric generator sets which incorporate our products. We are a qualified supplier for more than 50 control equipment products as required by the U.S. Department of Defense and serve as a supplier of the following types of control equipment, among others: protective relays and relay assemblies, instrumentation transducer controls, fault locating panel indicators, current and power transformer assemblies for current sensing control and instrumentation, motor operated circuit breaker assemblies and electrical load board and voltage change board assemblies. These products are also furnished for spare parts support for existent systems in the military inventory. In 1989, we completed the redesign of the control equipment related to the 5/10/15/30/60KW Tactical Quiet Generator (“TQG”) Systems programs. We are actively supplying these parts to DRS Technologies, Inc. (“DRS”) and L-3 Communications Inc., who are the prime contractors. In addition, we are also supplying to DRS control equipment related to the 3KW and the 100-200KW TQG systems program which first began in November 1998. Sales to DRS were $ 10.3 million in fiscal 2009 and $7.0 million in both fiscal 2008 and 2007. We also supply products for maintenance and spare parts support directly to the U.S. military. Direct U.S. military sales, which include these products and those mentioned below increased from $3.6 million in fiscal 2007 to $6.4 million in fiscal 2008, an increase of 78%, and decreased to $3.5 million in 2009. Military revenue, other than to DRS and direct sales to the U.S. military, were $.9 million in fiscal 2009, up from $.8 million in fiscal 2008, an increase of 18%, while they were $.9 million in fiscal 2007. We furnish various types of A.C. power voltage and frequency monitors to the military for its U.S. Navy vessels. These monitors provide system protection for the 400 Hz. electrical distribution systems that are used on all classes of U.S. Navy surface vessels, such as minesweepers, destroyers, guided missile cruisers and aircraft carriers in addition to other types of naval vessels. The monitors meet the environmental and stringent U.S. Navy high shock, vibration and endurance testing requirements, and they are furnished for new vessel production, retrofit upgrades and existing vessel replacement parts support. In addition, we provide both A.C. and D.C. power monitoring systems, which include voltage regulators, power transformers, A.C. over current and short circuit protection monitor assemblies and current sensing transformers for the military's armored-tracked vehicles. These products must pass highly accelerated stress screening and vehicle road testing at the Aberdeen Proving Grounds of the United States Department of Defense. Our panel mount GFCI is the only GFCI device that is approved and qualified by the U.S. Department of Defense for use on its mobile-tactical generating systems. Our contracts with the U.S. Government are on a fixed-price bid basis. As with all fixed-price contracts, whether government or commercial, we may not be able to negotiate higher prices to cover losses should unexpected manufacturing costs be incurred. All government contracts contain a provision that allows for cancellation by the government “for convenience.” However, the government must pay for costs incurred and a percentage of profits expected if a contract is canceled. Testing and Qualification A number of our commercial products must be tested and approved by UL or an approved testing laboratory. UL publishes certain “Standards of Safety” which various types of products must meet and requires that specific tests be undertaken to ascertain whether the products meet the prescribed standards. If a product passes these tests, it receives UL approval. Once our products have been initially tested and qualified by UL, they are subject to regular field checks and quarterly reviews and evaluations. UL may withdraw its approval for such products if they fail to pass these tests and if prompt corrective action is not taken. Our portable electrical safety products have received UL approval. In addition, certain of our portable GFCI and ELCI products have successfully undergone similar testing procedures conducted by comparable governmental testing facilities in Europe, Canada and Japan. We are active in new UL, NEMA, IEC and RVIA standard creation. Our military products are subject to testing and qualification standards imposed by the U. S. Government. We have established a quality control system, which has been qualified by the United States Department of Defense to operate under the requirements of a particular specification (MIL-I-45208). To the extent we design a product that we believe meets those specifications, we submit the product to the responsible government-testing laboratory. Upon issue of the qualification approval and source listing, the product is rarely subject to re-qualification; however, the U. S. Government may disqualify a product if it is subject to frequent or excessive operational failures. In addition, our governmental contracts provide that the current specifications and requirements could be changed at any time, which could require us to redesign our existing products or to develop new products which would have to be submitted for testing and qualification prior to their approval for purchase by the military or its prime contractors. Certain contracts also require witness testing and acceptance by government inspectors prior to shipment of the product. Our wholly-owned foreign subsidiary, TRC/Honduras S.A. de C.V., is an ISO 9000:2000 certified manufacturing facility and an approved supplier to several major corporations, and holds UL, Canadian Standards Association (“CSA”) and the German standards association, Verband Deutsher Elektrotechniker (“VDE”), approvals. In March, 2009, our manufacturing facility in Clearwater, Florida successfully completed the initial certification audit under ISO 9000:2008 and was recommended by the auditor for certification. This certification was issued on May 14, 2009. Environmental Regulations Our operations involve the use of hazardous and toxic materials and are subject to federal, state and local laws governing the use, storage and handling of such materials. We fall under the Conditionally Exempt Small Quantity Generators Rule as defined by the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) due to the small amounts of hazardous waste that we generate each year, and the cost of disposing such materials is not material to our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We believe that we are in general compliance with these regulations and that we have obtained all necessary permits to operate our business. Design and Manufacturing We currently design almost all of the products that we produce and generally will not undertake special design work for customers unless we receive a contract or purchase order to produce the resulting products. A significant number of our commercial and military electronic products are specialized in that they combine both electronic and magnetic features in design and production. The business of an electronics manufacturer primarily involves assembly of component parts. We mold most of our own plastic parts for our commercial product lines at our manufacturing facility in Honduras. The remainder of the products that we manufacture is assembled from component parts that are produced or distributed by other companies. Our wholly-owned subsidiary, TRC/Honduras, S.A. de C.V., manufactures most of our high-volume products sold in the U.S. TRC/Honduras, S.A. de C.V. leases 47,000 square feet of property which is located in ZIP San Jose, a free trade zone and industrial park, located in San Pedro Sula, Honduras. The benefits of being located in a free trade zone include no Honduran duties on imported raw materials or equipment, no sales or export tax on exported finished products, no U.S. income taxes incurred for any profits generated by the subsidiary, and various other benefits. We utilize our subsidiary in Honduras and Asian contract manufacturers to provide quality products to customers at our most competitive prices. We continue to manufacture our military products and distribute certain of our commercial products, which are manufactured off-shore, through our 43,000 square foot facility in Clearwater, Florida. Patents and Trademarks Our policy is to seek patents on inventions relating to new or enhanced products and processes developed as part of our ongoing research, engineering, manufacturing and support activities. We seek to protect our products and technologies primarily through patents, trade secrecy measures, copyrights, trademark registrations, licensing restrictions, confidentiality agreements and other contractual arrangements that are designed to protect our proprietary information. No assurances can be given that others will not independently develop competitive technology that is not covered by our intellectual property rights or that any measures that we take to protect our proprietary products will be effective. We currently own and hold patents in the U.S. and in several other countries throughout the world related to our Fire Shield® technologies. We have also filed other patent applications and are awaiting action on those applications. Our U.S. patents are valid for either 20 years from filing or 17 years from date of issue in the United States. The term of our patents in all other countries vary from 15 to 20 years. There can be no assurance that pending patent applications or other application that may be filed will result in issued patents, or that any issued patents will survive challenges to their validity. The lives of certain patents, related to our GFCI devices, have expired, and others will expire within the next few years which could affect our business in certain markets. We believe that the success of our business depends on our technical and engineering expertise, and marketing and service abilities of our employees. We vigorously protect our patents, but there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop similar products, duplicate our products or design around the patents issued to us or that foreign intellectual property laws will protect our intellectual property rights in any foreign country. We have registered our TRC® trademark with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. Our Shock Shield®, Electra Shield® and Fire Shield® brand names are also U.S. registered trademarks. Patent and other proprietary rights infringement claims are common in our industry. Our industry is commonly exposed to claims and litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights, including claims for indemnification arising out of contractual arrangements with customers. Litigation is often necessary to enforce patent rights or other intellectual property rights. On December 29, 2006, we entered into a Settlement Agreement with Tower Manufacturing Corporation (“Tower”). Under the Settlement Agreement, the civil actions filed by both us and Tower, including Fedders Corporation, were dismissed. Under the terms of the settlement agreement, Tower agreed to pay $3.2 million over a two year period. We and Tower have also entered into a cross licensing agreement of the patents that were the subject of the lawsuits for the period they remain valid and enforceable. We received our final payment from Tower under the Settlement Agreement in January, 2009. On February 16, 2007, Shanghai ELE Manufacturing Corporation (“ELE”) filed a declaratory judgment action against us in the Central District of California alleging that our United States Patent No. 6,292,337 (“the 337 patent”) is invalid and not infringed by ELE. We had previously written a letter to ELE requesting that it cease all infringing activity relating to our '337 patent. On April 11, 2007 we filed a counterclaim against ELE asserting that the patent is valid and that ELE's Leakage Current Detectors and Interrupters (“LCDIs”), among other things, infringe our '337 patent. We also sought monetary damages against ELE for past infringement of the '337 patent. The '337 patent underlies our Fire Shield® technology for cord fire prevention. On August 4, 2008, we entered into a Settlement Agreement with ELE. Under the Settlement Agreement, the civil action involving TRC and ELE was dismissed. As part of the Settlement Agreement, we entered into a cross-licensing arrangement with ELE for our ‘337 patent and ELE’s Chinese patents Nos. ZL200420096315.2, ZL 200520118736.5 and ZL200520118737.X for the period such patents remain valid and enforceable. The parties agreed to make payments to each other for sales of products made prior to July 1, 2008, thereby resulting in us receiving a net payment from ELE as part of the terms of the confidential Settlement Agreement. Under this licensing arrangement, we will receive royalty payments for periods beginning after June 30, 2008, based on the number of designated ELE Leakage Current Detector Interrupter Products sold. Major Customers and Exports Significant customers who accounted for 10% or more of our revenue, and aggregate exports were: Years ended March 31, (In thousands) Customer 2009 2008 2007 U.S. Military (direct sales) $ 3,517 6,400 3,623 DRS Technologies, Inc., a U.S. Government Prime Contractor 10,251 6,986 7,000 Total Revenue for major customers $ 13,768 13,386 10,623 Exports: Africa $ 1 1 2 Australia 2 1 9 Canada 63 62 243 Europe 2,000 1,921 2,866 Far East 1,548 2,189 5,146 Mexico 125 526 639 Middle East 28 17 29 South America 27 13 22 Total exports $ 3,794 4,730 8,956 Our military product sales are primarily to military procurement logistic agencies for field service support on previously shipped military equipment and to OEM prime contractors of electric generators. In fiscal 2009, military revenue was approximately 44% of total revenue, compared to approximately 38% in fiscal 2008 and 30% in fiscal 2007. In fiscal 2009 year to year direct sales to the U.S. military decreased approximately 45%, sales to DRS increased approximately 47%, and overall, military revenue increased approximately 3% from fiscal 2008 to fiscal 2009. When comparing fiscal 2008 with fiscal 2007, direct sales to the U.S. military increased approximately 77%, sales to DRS were approximately the same in fiscal 2008 as fiscal 2007, and overall, military revenue increased approximately 26%. Direct U.S. military revenue accounted for approximately 10% of our total revenue while DRS accounted for approximately 30% of our total revenue for fiscal 2009, as compared to approximately 17% and 19%, respectively, for fiscal 2008, and approximately 10% and 18%, respectively, for fiscal 2007. Our exports were down approximately 21% in fiscal 2009, as compared to the prior year, primarily due to lower RAC product shipments to customers located in the Far East. We offer our customers no specific product liability protection except with regard to those customers that are specifically named as “Broad Form Vendors” under our product liability coverage. We do extend protection to purchasers in the event there is a claimed patent infringement that pertains to our portion of the final product that is purchased. We also carry product and general liability insurance for protection in such cases. Competition Our commercial and military business is highly competitive. In the commercial market, we have significant competition. As a result, we may not be able to maintain current profit margins due to price erosion. We believe, however, that our product knowledge, patented technology, ability to respond quickly to customer requirements, positive customer relations, technical background, industry experience and implementation of our global manufacturing strategy and cost reduction efforts are major operational areas where we are able to effectively compete. In the military market, we must compete with other companies, some being larger and some smaller than we are and acting as suppliers of similar products to prime government contractors. We believe that our knowledge of the procurement process, engineering and technical support, price and delivery are major competitive factors in the military market. We believe that we have competitive strengths in all of these areas due to senior management's involvement in the government procurement process and experience in the design engineering requirements for military equipment. A substantial portion of spare parts procurement by the U.S. Department of Defense is set aside for small business concerns, which are defined in general as entities that do not exceed 750 employees. Because we are classified as a small business concern, we qualify for such set aside procurements for which larger competitors are not qualified. The entry barriers to the military market are significant because of the need, in most cases, for products to pass stringent government tests and qualifications. Employees As of March 31, 2009, we employed 92 persons on a full time basis at our headquarters in Clearwater, Florida and 281 persons at our subsidiary in Honduras. Due to the seasonality of portions of our business and the production requirements placed on our facility in Honduras, the number of personnel may vary significantly from the first half of the fiscal year compared to the second half of the fiscal year. None of our employees are represented by a collective bargaining unit, and we consider our relations with our employees to be stable. While we believe we have established good relations with the local labor force in both the United States and Honduras, our reliance upon a foreign manufacturing facility subjects us to risks inherent in international operations. Competition for management, technical, manufacturing, sales and support personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Stockholders and investors should carefully consider the risk factors described below, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report, before making any investment decision with respect to our securities. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, or results of operation could be significantly impacted and the trading price of our common stock could decline: Our growth is subject to a number of economic risks. As widely reported, financial markets in the United States, Europe and Asia have been experiencing extreme disruption in recent months, including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. Governments have taken unprecedented actions intended to address extreme market conditions that include severely restricted credit and declines in real estate values. While currently these conditions have not impaired our ability to access credit markets and finance our operations, there can be no assurance that there will not be a further deterioration in financial markets and confidence in major economies. These economic developments affect businesses such as ours in a number of ways. The current tightening of credit in financial markets adversely affects the ability of customers and suppliers to obtain financing for significant purchases and operations and could result in a decrease in or cancellation of orders for our products and services. Our business is also adversely affected by decreases in the general level of economic activity, such as decreases in business and consumer spending, purchase of electrical safety equipment by consumers and businesses and military procurement. Failure to achieve our operating strategy could negatively affect our revenue and profits. Our operating strategy is to grow revenue and improve gross margin in our military, recreational vehicle, industrial, and consumer markets as well as closely aligned markets if they share similar products or have other synergies. We plan to achieve these growth goals through internal development of new products, acquisitions, strategic partnerships and licensing. We have undertaken a number of initiatives to lower costs, improve asset turnover and reduce our risk. These initiatives include, but are not limited to, product line simplification, establishing product platforms in design, greater utilization of our operations in Honduras, utilizing new designs and operations software to improve quality, accelerate product development and reduce the cost of redesigned products. Any or all of these objectives may not be realized or, if realized, may not result in increased revenue, profitability or market presence. Executing our strategy may also place a strain on our production, information technology systems and other resources. We rely on the availability of substantial working capital to finance our growth and meet our capital requirements. Our ability to continue the growth of our business requires a large amount of working capital. If we are unable to fund this growth, we may not be able to compete effectively. Our requirement for capital depends on the market’s acceptance of our products, the growth of our marketing effort, our ability to expand our customer base, our need for additional capital equipment to adopt new manufacturing methods and new products and for future acquisitions. We cannot be sure that additional financing, if needed, will be available or if such financing will be on favorable terms. Without access to these additional funds, we may not be able to remain competitive. The unavailability of and cost increases in raw materials and components could negatively affect our revenue and profits. Raw materials and components constitute a significant portion of our cost of sales. Factors that are largely beyond our control, such as movements in commodity prices for the specific materials required, may affect the future cost of raw materials and components. As an example, our products require a substantial amount of plastic. Because the primary resource used in manufactured plastics is petroleum, the cost and availability of plastic varies to a great extent with the price of petroleum. We have experienced fluctuations in prices of plastic, as well as steel, aluminum and especially copper, which could continue in fiscal 2010. In addition, the inability of our suppliers to timely deliver raw materials or components could be disruptive and costly. If we are unable to obtain raw materials on a timely basis at an affordable cost or if we experience any significant delays or interruptions of supply, our financial results could be significantly impacted. We depend upon a limited number of key suppliers. We purchase a significant volume of products from contract manufacturers in China. In fiscal 2009, for example, our purchases from Chinese vendors were more than $4 million but we expect this amount to decrease in fiscal 2010 as our RAC business has decreased and we have transferred some production to our facility in Honduras. The purchase price for these products is set in U.S. dollars. If the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and Chinese yuan changes so that the yuan appreciates significantly against the dollar, the cost of building our products could increase significantly. We anticipate that outsource providers will play key roles in our manufacturing operations. Although we aim at selecting reputable providers, it is possible that one or more of these providers could fail to perform as we expect and such failure could have an adverse impact on our business. Because of this expanded role of our outsource providers, we will need to monitor the performance of these suppliers and adopt new procedures to deal with and manage the performance of these outsource providers. Any delay or failure in the implementation of our operational changes and monitoring of these relationships could adversely affect our customer relationships and/or have a negative effect on our operating results. The loss of or significant decrease in sales to large customers would adversely affect our revenue and profits. We rely upon a continuous flow of new orders from our large customers. Failure to obtain anticipated orders or delays or cancellations of orders or significant pressure to reduce prices from key customers could have a material adverse effect on us. Our largest customer accounted for 30% of our net revenue for the year ended March 31, 2009. Any reduction in, or cancellation of, orders placed by this customer would at least temporarily, and possibly longer, cause a material reduction in our net revenue, income from operations and net income. In addition, as a result of the desire to more closely manage inventory levels, there is a growing trend in business, especially in our commercial markets, to make purchases on a “just-in-time” basis. This requires us to shorten our lead time for production in certain cases and more closely anticipate demand, which could in the future require the carrying of additional inventories or require additional expenses to expedite delivery. Our long-term contracts may not be renewed. We currently have contracts with the U.S. military to provide control equipment used in engine generator systems. These contracts currently run through 2012. We also are a key supplier of control equipment to DRS, a prime contractor with the U.S. military. As a result of the war in Iraq, demand for these military products has remained strong. If the war ends or significantly winds down or if our contracts with the military expire and are not renewed, demand for these products could be greatly reduced. We may face cancellations, reductions or delays in our product orders that could adversely affect our operating results. From time to time we receive commercial orders from customers that require us to manufacture products on short notice and have such products available for shipment, even though the order may be reduced, cancelled or delayed. Some orders may be designed to meet the unique needs of a particular customer. As a result, changes, delays or cancellations of orders could result in an inventory of unsalable products and possible inventory write-downs that could adversely affect our operating results. Adverse changes in the operations of global manufacturing facilities could decrease our manufacturing capacity. We manufacture a significant number of products in Honduras and obtain a significant proportion of the raw materials and sub-assembly components used in the manufacturing of our products outside the United States. International operations are subject to risks including, among others:  labor unrest;  political instability;  lack of developed infrastructure;  longer payment cycles and greater difficulty in collecting accounts;  import and export duties and quotas;  changes in domestic and international customs and tariffs;  unexpected changes in regulatory environments;  difficulty in complying with a variety of foreign laws;  difficulty in obtaining distribution and support;  potentially adverse tax consequences; and  changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the foreign currency. Labor in Honduras has historically been readily available and at lower cost than available in many other nations; however, we cannot be assured that labor will continue to be available in Honduras at costs consistent with historical levels. A substantial increase in labor costs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation. Interruptions in manufacturing operations could disrupt our business. Approximately 55% of our revenue is derived from products manufactured or assembled at our manufacturing facility in Honduras and by contract manufacturers located in China. These manufacturing operations, as well as our manufacturing plant in Clearwater, Florida, are subject to hazards that could result in material damage to any such facilities. Such damage to or prolonged interruption in the operations of such facilities for repairs, labor disruption, hurricanes, typhoons or other reasons, could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, our contract manufacturing agreements can be terminated on short notice. If our contract manufacturers located in China are unable or unwilling to manufacture and deliver products to enable us to meet the delivery schedules and quality that we require, we could be forced to seek additional suppliers, thereby resulting in further delays and additional expenses in shipping products to our customers. We depend upon our subsidiary in Honduras for a substantial portion of our manufacturing capacity. Managing a distant subsidiary and fully integrating it into our business is challenging. We rely on local supervising officers, managers and staff to carry out our manufacturing operations. The challenge of language differences and cultural factors involved in our operations can stretch our administrative capabilities. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property. We believe that our rights in owned and licensed trademarks are of increasing importance to our business success and that our ability to create demand for our products is dependent to a large extent on our ability to exploit these trademarks, such as our SurgeGuard and Fire Shield® brand name. There can be no assurance as to the breadth or degree of protection that these trademarks may afford us, or that we will be able to successfully leverage our trademarks in the future. The costs associated with protecting our intellectual property rights, including litigation costs, may be material. We also cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully assert our intellectual property rights or that these rights will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. Any inability to do so, particularly with respect to trademarks in which we have made significant capital investments, or a successful intellectual property challenge or infringement proceeding against us, could have a material adverse effect on us. Our success also depends in part on our proprietary technology and patent rights. If we fail to adequately protect this technology and our patent rights, we may lose our competitive position or face significant expense to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights. We intend to continue to protect our proprietary technology through patents, copyrights and trade secrets. Despite this intention, we may not be successful in achieving adequate protection. Claims allowed on any of our patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology and any patents issued to us also may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. With respect to our pending applications for patents, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining patents from these applications. The loss of patent protection could impact our operating results. We currently hold patents on several products, the main patent being the ‘337 patent underlying our Fire Shield ® technology for cord fire prevention. This patent provides legal protection against competitors who could unlawfully copy our technology. Once these patents expire, competitors will be able to legally utilize our technology and competition could increase, resulting in lower prices in the marketplace. If we are unable to develop new patented technologies we may be unable to maintain our profit margins and we could lose our technological advantage in the marketplace. Our business can be adversely affected by competitors’ patents. Competitors may register new patents on products that make it very difficult for us to effectively compete in certain markets. As a result, our current products could become obsolete or uneconomical. For example, our products could become difficult to market as a result of a competitor’s patented products that provides equal or superior performance at a lower cost. If we are not able to meet these competitive challenges, we could lose revenue or be forced to write down the value of our inventory. Seasonality can impact our revenue. Our business can vary significantly from quarter to quarter. This seasonality may also result in cash outlays or additional interest expense due to an increased need to borrow funds to maintain sufficient working capital to support such increased demand. We face competition from companies that produce similar products. The markets for our products are highly competitive. We believe that competition is based upon several factors, including price, quality, access to retail shelf space, product features and enhancements, brand names, new product introductions, marketing support and distribution systems. We compete with established companies, a number of which have substantially greater facilities, personnel, financial and other resources. Some competitors may be willing to reduce prices and accept lower profit margins to compete with us. As a result of this competition, we could lose market share and sales, or be forced to reduce our prices to meet competition. In such cases, we could be required to write down our inventory to market value. Additionally, our current products could become obsolete as a result of new customer demands or competitors’ new products. For example, our products could become unmarketable as a result of a new product that provides superior performance at a lower cost. If we cannot adapt to these competitive challenges, we may not be able to effectively compete. Our design and manufacture of products for sale to the United States military, combined with our international supply chain, subjects us to certain governmental regulations, such as the International Traffic in Arms Regulations ("ITAR"). Certain of our products that we sell to the United States military are subject to ITAR, which is administered by the U.S. Department of State. ITAR regulates the export of related technical data and defense services as well as foreign production. Given the current global political climate, there is increased focus by regulators and companies such as ours on ITAR and the actions that it regulates. We are currently enhancing our ITAR controls and implementing improvements in our internal compliance program. As we implement these enhancements and improvements, we are addressing certain of our business practices, which could lead to an increase in our costs. In October 2008, we received approval from the U.S. government for our manufacturing license agreement between the Company and our Honduran subsidiary and we have begun to transfer work to our facility in Honduras. Also, if we discover issues that are sufficiently material, the U.S. Department of State could impose fines on us, investigate our business practices or impose other remedies upon us which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, the conduct and resolution of any such issues that are sufficiently material could be time consuming, expensive and distracting from the conduct of our business. In addition, if our ITAR-related enhancements and improvements were to fail or be ineffective for a prolonged period of time, it could have a materially adverse effect on our operating results. Our business may be affected by government contracting risks. U.S. government contracts are subject to termination by the government, either for the convenience of the government or for default as a result of our failure to perform under the applicable contract. If terminated by the government as a result of our default, we could be liable for additional costs the government incurs in acquiring undelivered goods or services from another source and any other damages it suffers. If we or one of our business units were charged with wrongdoing as a result of any U.S. government investigation (including violation of certain environmental or export laws), the U.S. government could suspend us from bidding on or receiving awards of new U.S. government contracts pending the completion of legal proceedings. If convicted or found liable, the U.S. government could subject us to fines, penalties, repayments and treble and other damages. The U.S. government could void any contracts found to be tainted by fraud. The U.S. government also reserves the right to debar a contractor from receiving new government contracts for fraudulent, criminal or other seriously improper conduct. Debarment generally does not exceed three years. Independently, failure to comply with U.S. laws and regulations related to the export of goods and technology outside the United States could result in civil or criminal penalties and suspension or termination of our export privileges. Our ability to expand or revenue depends, in part, on newly acquired businesses or product lines. We may acquire partial or full ownership in businesses or may acquire rights to market and distribute particular products or lines of products. The acquisition of a business or of the rights to market specific products or use specific product names may involve a financial commitment, either in the form of cash or stock consideration. There is no guarantee that the acquired businesses or product lines will contribute positively to earnings. The anticipated synergies may not materialize, cost savings may be less than expected, sales of products may not meet expectations, and acquired businesses may carry unexpected liabilities. Because we have a small management team, we may not be able to effectively assimilate the operations, technologies, personnel and products from the acquired company or our management team may be diverted from our other business concerns. We depend on new products that are technical in nature. Our products are technical in nature and require significant engineering in order to develop. Rapid technological changes in our industry subject us to increased pressure to develop technological advances in our products. We believe that our future success depends in part upon our ability to develop and offer new products with improved capabilities and add additional features and adaptations of our existing products for new uses. If we are unable to develop sufficient new products to remain competitive, or if our products experience reliability problems, our business could be impacted. Although products are tested prior to being sold, unanticipated or latent performance issues could be experienced subsequent to release. If new products have reliability or quality problems, our performance may be impacted by reduced orders, higher manufacturing costs, and additional service and warranty expenses. Additionally, if we incur significant numbers of quality issues, we could initiate a formal product recall which could result in significant additional costs. Our failure to complete commercialization of these products in a timely manner could result in unanticipated costs and inventory obsolescence, which would adversely affect our financial results. Our stock price has been volatile. In recent years, the price of our common stock has fluctuated greatly. The price of our common stock could continue to be volatile and fluctuate in response to a variety of factors including, but not limited to, the following:  general and global economic fluctuation;  quarter-to-quarter variations in our operating results;  material differences in revenue or earnings from levels expected by investors;  announcements of restructurings, technological innovations, reductions in force, departure of key employees, consolidations of operations or introduction of new products;  development in, or claims relating to, patent or other proprietary rights;  success or failure of our new and existing products;  disruptions with key customers or suppliers; or  political, economic or environmental events occurring globally. Government regulations could adversely impact our operations. Throughout the world, most federal, state, provincial and local authorities require Underwriters Laboratory, Inc. or other safety regulation certification prior to marketing electrical products in those jurisdictions. Most of our products have such certifications; however, there can be no assurance that our products will continue to meet such specifications. Many foreign, federal, state and local governments also have enacted laws and regulations that govern the labeling and packaging of products and limit the sale of product containing certain materials deemed to be environmentally sensitive. A determination that our products are not in compliance with such rules and regulations could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. Product liability and product recalls could harm our reputation, revenue and financial condition. We design and manufacture or have manufactured for use our standard products and we assemble these products for delivery to our customers. We also rely on component parts that are manufactured or distributed by other suppliers. In the event that a flaw or deficiency in such products or components is found, we could face product liability claims, recall efforts or we could voluntarily initiate a recall. If a flaw or deficiency in a product or component is discovered before any damages or injury occurs, we may need to initiate a product recall effort. Any such recall initiative could entail substantial costs and adversely affect our reputation, revenue and financial condition. To the extent that claims are brought for personal injury or property damages, we could incur liability for such damages and be required to compensate persons who have suffered injury. Our business and results of operations could be impacted by the implementation of Sarbanes Oxley. Under current rules, we were required to complete an assessment of the adequacy of internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 as of March 31, 2009. We also must include in our assessment, a report detailing management’s assessment of the design effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as well as the operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Although we will devote significant resources into developing and updating the required documentation and perform the required testing, there can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with all of Section 404’s requirements. Additionally, our independent registered public accounting firm must issue an attestation report on the operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of March 31, 2010. If our internal control over financial reporting is not designed or operating effectively, our independent registered public accounting firm may either disclaim an opinion or may issue a qualified opinion as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If this should occur, there could be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn, could cause a decline in the market price of our common stock. The risks listed above are not the only risks that we face. Additional risks that are not yet known or that we believe to be immaterial may also impair business operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 