ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS For the purposes of this section, the terms “we,” “us” and “our” refer to SPR on a consolidated basis (including NPC and SPPC). The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that we currently believe to be less significant may also adversely affect us. The Utilities may not be able to mitigate fuel and wholesale electricity pricing risks which could result in unanticipated liabilities or increased volatility in our earnings. The Utilities’ business and operations are subject to changes in purchased power prices and fuel costs that may cause increases in the amounts they must pay for power supplies on the wholesale market and the cost of producing power in their generation plants. As evidenced by the western utility crisis that began in 2000, prices for electricity, fuel and natural gas may fluctuate substantially over relatively short periods of time and expose the Utilities to significant commodity price risks. Among the factors that could affect market prices for electricity and fuel are: • prevailing market prices for coal, oil, natural gas and other fuels used in generation plants, including associated transportation costs, and supplies of such commodities; • changes in the regulatory framework for the commodities markets that they rely on for purchased power and fuel; • liquidity in the general wholesale electricity market; • the actions of external parties, such as the FERC or independent system operators, that may impose price limitations and other mechanisms to address some of the volatility in the western energy markets; • weather conditions impacting demand for electricity or availability of hydroelectric power or fuel supplies; • union and labor relations; • natural disasters, wars, embargoes and other catastrophic events; and • changes in federal and state energy and environmental laws and regulations. As a part of the Utilities’ risk management strategy, they focus on executing contracts for power deliveries to the Utilities’ physical points of delivery to mitigate the commodity-related risks listed above. To the extent that open positions exist, fluctuating commodity prices could have a material adverse effect on their cash flows and their ability to operate and, consequently, on our financial condition. 26 Table of Contents Increasing energy commodity prices, particularly with respect to natural gas, have a significant effect on our short-term liquidity. Although the Utilities are entitled to recover their prudently incurred power, natural gas and fuel costs through deferred energy rate case filings with the PUCN, if current commodity prices hold or increase, the Utilities’ deferred energy balances will increase, which will negatively affect our cash flow and liquidity until such costs are recovered from customers. The Utilities are also subject to credit risk for losses that they incur as a result of non-performance by counterparties of their contractual obligations to deliver fuel, purchased power or settlement payments. The Utilities often extend credit to counterparties and customers and they are exposed to the risk that they may not be able to collect amounts owed to them. Credit risk includes the risk that a counterparty may default due to circumstances relating directly to it, and also the risk that a counterparty may default due to circumstances that relate to other market participants that have a direct or indirect relationship with such counterparty. Should a counterparty, customer or supplier fail to perform, the Utilities may be required to replace existing contracts with contracts at then-current market prices or to honor the underlying commitment. The Utilities are also subject to liquidity risk resulting from the exposure that their counterparties perceive with respect to the possible non-performance by the Utilities of their physical and financial obligations under their energy and fuel contracts. These counterparties may under certain circumstances, pursuant to the Utilities agreements with them, seek assurances of performance from the Utilities in the form of letters of credit, prepayment or cash deposits. In periods of price volatility, the Utilities’ exposure levels can change significantly, which could have a significant negative impact on our liquidity and earnings. As of February 24, 2006 NPC had approximately $170.4 million available under its $500 million revolving credit facility and SPPC has approximately $216 million available under its $250 million revolving credit facility. The combined effects of higher natural gas prices, significant deferred energy balances and ongoing under-recovery of fuel, energy and natural gas costs may have a negative effect on our short-term liquidity. If NPC and/or SPPC do not receive favorable rulings in the deferred energy applications that they file with the PUCN and they are unable to recover their deferred purchased power, gas and fuel costs, we will experience an adverse impact on cash flow and earnings. Any significant disallowance of deferred energy charges in the future could materially adversely affect our cash flow, financial condition and liquidity. The rates that the Utilities charge their customers and certain aspects of their operations are subject to the regulation of the PUCN, which significantly influences the Utilities’ operating environment and affects their ability to recover costs from their customers. Under Nevada law, purchased power, gas and fuel costs in excess of those included in base rates are deferred as an asset on their balance sheets and are not shown as an expense until recovered from their retail customers. The Utilities are required to file deferred energy applications with the PUCN at least once every twelve months so that the PUCN may verify the prudence of the energy costs and allow them to clear their deferred energy accounts. Nevada law also requires the PUCN to act on these cases within a specified time period. Any of these costs determined by the PUCN to have been imprudently incurred cannot be recovered from the Utilities’ customers. Past disallowances in the Utilities’ deferred energy cases have been significant. On January 17, 2006, NPC filed its annual deferred energy rate case seeking to recover past costs of $171.5 million and to increase going-forward rates by $138 million. The filing, if approved by the PUCN, would result in an overall 9% increase to recover costs already incurred and a 8% increase to account for current and anticipated future costs. On December 1, 2005, SPPC filed its annual deferred energy rate case seeking to recover past costs of $46.7 million and to increase going forward rates by $53 million. Decisions on NPC’s and SPPC’s deferred energy rate cases are expected in the second quarter of 2006. As of December 31, 2005, NPC’s and SPPC’s unapproved deferred energy costs, including claims for terminated energy supply contracts, were $282 million and $69.1 million, respectively, and SPPC’s unapproved gas deferred energy costs were $2.1 million. Material disallowances of deferred energy costs, gas costs or inadequate base tariff energy rates would have a significant adverse effect on the Utilities’ financial condition and future results of operations, could cause downgrades of SPR’s and the Utilities’ securities by the rating agencies and would make it more difficult to finance operations and buy fuel and purchased power from third parties. If NPC and/or SPPC do not receive favorable rulings in their future general rate cases, it will have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and future results of operations. The Utilities’ revenues and earnings are subject to changes in regulatory proceedings known as general rate cases, which the Utilities file with the PUCN approximately every two years. In the Utilities’ general rate cases, the PUCN establishes, among other things, their recoverable rate base, their return on common equity, overall rate of return, depreciation rates and their cost of capital. On October 3, 2005, SPPC filed a gas and electric general rate case requesting a $27 million increase in its electric rates, for an overall increase of 3.4%, and a $8.3 million increase in its natural gas rates, for an overall increase of 5.4%. On January 23, 2006, 27 Table of Contents SPPC reduced the amount requested in its electric filing to $3.2 million, for an overall increase of 0.4% in electric rates. A decision on SPPC’s gas and electric general rate case is expected early in the second quarter of 2006. NPC’s next general rate case will be filed in the fourth quarter of 2006. We cannot predict what the PUCN will direct in their orders on the Utilities’ pending or future general rate cases. Inadequate base energy rates would have a significant adverse effect on the Utilities’ financial condition and future results of operations and could cause additional downgrades of their securities by the rating agencies and make it significantly more difficult to finance operations and to buy fuel and purchased power from third parties. Past regulatory decisions significantly adversely affected our liquidity. Adverse regulatory decisions could cause downgrades of our credit ratings which, in turn, could limit our access to the capital markets and make it difficult for the Utilities to obtain power necessary for their operations. On March 29, 2002, the PUCN issued a decision in NPC’s deferred energy rate case disallowing $434 million of its request to recover deferred purchased power and fuel costs through rate increases to its customers. Following this decision by the PUCN, each of Standard & Poor’s Rating Services (“S&P”) and Moody’s Investor Service, Inc. (“Moody’s”) lowered our unsecured debt ratings to below investment grade. As a result of these downgrades, our ability to access the capital markets to raise funds to service our debt obligations and refinance our maturing debt became limited. Since that time, SPR and the Utilities have completed a series of financings that have extended the debt maturities, reduced interest costs, improved their capital structure, increased liquidity and enhanced the credit of SPR and the Utilities. As a result, Moody’s improved the credit ratings of SPR and the Utilities, S&P changed our credit outlook to “positive” from “negative,” and Fitch Ratings Ltd. (“Fitch”) commenced credit coverage at the equivalent ratings as Moody’s. Currently, S&P, Moody’s and Fitch have our credit ratings on “stable” outlook. SPR and the Utilities will continue to look for opportunities to improve their financial strength and improve their credit quality. However, any future downgrades would increase our cost of capital and limit our access to the capital markets. Historically, the Utilities have purchased a significant portion of the power that they sell to their customers from power suppliers. If their credit ratings are downgraded, they may experience difficulty entering into new power supply contracts, and to the extent that they must rely on the spot market, they may experience difficulty obtaining such power from suppliers in the spot market in light of their financial condition. In addition, if the Utilities experience unexpected failures or outages in their generation facilities, they may need to purchase a greater portion of the power they provide to their customers. If they do not have sufficient funds or access to liquidity to obtain their power requirements, particularly for NPC at the onset of the summer months, and are unable to obtain power through other means, their business, operations and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. The Utilities plan to make significant capital expenditures to construct new transmission and generating facilities. If we are unable to finance such construction or limit the amount of capital expenditures associated therewith to forecasted levels, our financial condition and results of operation could be adversely affected. Our long term business objectives include plans to construct new generating and transmission facilities. Such construction will require significant capital expenditures that the Utilities may finance through significant additional borrowings under the Utilities’ respective credit facilities, through additional debt financings in private or public offerings or through debt or equity financings by SPR. We cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain financing for such capital expenditures on favorable terms, or at all. Neither can we be sure that we will be successful in limiting capital expenditures to planned amounts. Failure to obtain favorable financing arrangements for our planned capital expenditures and to be able to limit such capital expenditures to forecasted amounts would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. The Utilities’ ability to access the capital markets is dependent on their ability to obtain regulatory approval to do so. The Utilities must obtain regulatory approval in Nevada in order to borrow money or to issue securities and will therefore be dependent on the PUCN to issue favorable orders in a timely manner to permit them to finance their operations, construction and acquisition costs and to purchase power and fuel necessary to serve their customers. We cannot assure you that the PUCN will issue such orders or that such orders will be issued on a timely basis. SPR and the Utilities have substantial indebtedness that they may be required to refinance. The failure to refinance indebtedness would have an adverse effect on us. SPR and the Utilities have indebtedness that must be repaid, purchased, remarketed or refinanced. If the Utilities do not have sufficient funds from operations and/or SPR does not have sufficient funds from dividends to repay such indebtedness at maturity, we will have to refinance the indebtedness through additional financings in private or public offerings. If, at the time of any financing or refinancing, prevailing interest rates or other factors result in higher interest rates on the refinanced debt, the increase in interest expense associated with the refinancing could adversely affect our cash flow, and, consequently, the cash available for payments on 28 Table of Contents our other indebtedness. If the Utilities are unable to refinance or extend outstanding borrowings on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, they may have to: • reduce or delay capital expenditures planned for replacements, improvements and expansions; and/or • dispose of assets on disadvantageous terms, potentially resulting in losses and adverse effects on cash flow from their operating activities. We cannot assure you that the Utilities could effect or implement any of these alternatives on satisfactory terms, if at all. If SPR or the Utilities are unable to refinance indebtedness as it matures, our cash flow, financial conditions and liquidity could be materially adversely affected. If SPR is precluded from receiving dividends from the Utilities, its financial condition and ability to meet its debt service obligations will be materially adversely affected. SPR is a holding company with no significant operations of its own. Its cash flows are substantially derived from dividends paid to it by the Utilities, which are typically utilized to service SPR’s debt and pay dividends on SPR’s common stock, with the balance, if any, reinvested in our subsidiaries as contributions to capital. The Utilities are subject to restrictions on their ability to pay dividends to SPR under the terms of certain of their respective financing agreements and, in the case of SPPC, under the terms of its restated articles of incorporation. In addition, certain provisions of the Federal Power Act could, depending on the interpretation thereof, limit or prohibit the payment of dividends to SPR. Assuming that the Utilities meet the requirements to pay dividends under the Federal Power Act, the most restrictive of the dividend restrictions applicable to the Utilities individually can be found, for NPC, in NPC’s Series E Notes and, for SPPC, in SPPC’s Series H Notes. Under their material dividend restrictions, each of the Utilities may pay dividends to SPR if each such Utility can meet a 2 to 1 fixed charge coverage ratio test. If that condition is met, the amount of dividends that can be paid is less than 50% of such Utilities’ consolidated net income plus the amount of capital contributions made to such Utility by SPR for the period from the date of issuance of the respective series of Notes to the end of the most recently ended fiscal quarter. If they do not meet these conditions, in order for either of the Utilities to pay dividends to SPR, other than to pay SPR’s reasonable fees and expenses, the Utility must have a cash flow to fixed charge coverage ratio of at least 1.75:1 over the prior four fiscal quarters as a condition to their payment of dividends. In addition, under the most restrictive of their dividend restrictions, NPC and SPPC are limited to paying no more than $15 million and $25 million, respectively, to SPR, from the date of issuance of the applicable debt securities. Although each Utility currently meets the conditions described above, a significant loss by either Utility could cause that Utility to be precluded from paying dividends to SPR until such time as that Utility again meets the coverage test. In 2005, SPR received approximately $59.2 million in dividends from the Utilities to meet its debt service obligations. SPR’s indebtedness is effectively subordinated to the liabilities of its subsidiaries, particularly NPC and SPPC. SPR and the Utilities have the ability to issue a significant amount of additional indebtedness under the terms of their various financing agreements. Because SPR is a holding company, its indebtedness is effectively subordinated to the Utilities’ existing and future liabilities. SPR conducts substantially all of its operations through its subsidiaries, and thus SPR’s ability to meet its obligations under its indebtedness will be dependent on the earnings and cash flows of those subsidiaries and the ability of those subsidiaries to pay dividends or to advance or repay funds to SPR. Holders of SPR’s indebtedness will generally have a junior position to claims of SPR’s subsidiaries creditors of, including trade creditors, debt holders, secured creditors, taxing authorities, guarantee holders and preferred stockholders. As of January 31, 2006, the Utilities had approximately $3.6 billion of debt outstanding and SPPC had approximately $50 million stated value of preferred stock outstanding. The terms of SPR’s indebtedness restrict the amount of additional indebtedness that SPR and the Utilities may issue. Based on SPR’s December 31, 2005 financial statements, assuming an interest rate of 6.0%, SPR’s indebtedness restrictions would allow SPR and the Utilities to issue up to approximately $482 million of additional indebtedness in the aggregate, unless the indebtedness being issued is specifically permitted under the terms of SPR’s indebtedness. In addition, NPC and SPPC are subject to restrictions under the terms of their various financing agreements on their ability to issue additional indebtedness. The Utilities are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations that may increase our cost of operations, impact or limit our business plans, or expose us to environmental liabilities. The Utilities are subject to extensive federal, state and local statutes, rules and regulations relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations can result in increased capital, operating, and other costs, particularly with regard to enforcement efforts focused on power plant emissions obligations. These laws and regulations generally require us to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals, and may be enforced by both public 29 Table of Contents officials and private individuals. We cannot predict the outcome or effect of any action or litigation that may arise from applicable environmental regulations. In addition, either of the Utilities may be required to be a responsible party for environmental clean up at sites identified by environmental agencies or regulatory bodies. We cannot predict with certainty the amount or timing of future expenditures related to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating clean up costs. There is also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on all potentially responsible parties. Environmental regulations may also require us to install pollution control equipment at, or perform environmental remediation on, our facilities. Existing environmental regulations may be revised or new regulations may be adopted or become applicable to us. Revised or additional regulations, which result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from our customers. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain or maintain all environmental regulatory approvals necessary to our business. If there is a delay in obtaining any required environmental regulatory approval or if we fail to obtain, maintain or comply with any such approval, operations at our affected facilities could be halted or subjected to additional costs. Further, at some of our older facilities the cost of installing the necessary equipment may cause us to shut down those generation units. Our operating results will likely fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis. Electric power generation is generally a seasonal business. In many parts of the country, including our service areas, demand for power peaks during the hot summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time. As a result, our operating results in the future will likely fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. In addition, we have historically sold less power, and consequently earned less income, when weather conditions in our service areas are milder. Unusually mild weather in the future could diminish our results of operations and harm our financial condition. War and the threat of terrorism or epidemics may harm our future growth and operating results. The growth of our business depends in part on continued customer growth and tourism demand in the Las Vegas portion of our service area. Changes in consumer preferences or discretionary consumer spending in the Las Vegas portion of our service area could harm our business. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 had a negative impact on travel and leisure expenditures, including lodging, gaming and tourism. Although activity levels in the Las Vegas area have recovered significantly since then, we cannot predict the extent to which future terrorist and war activities, or epidemics, in the United States and elsewhere may affect us, directly or indirectly. An extended period of reduced discretionary spending and/or disruptions or declines in airline travel and business conventions could significantly harm the businesses in and the continued growth of the Las Vegas portion of our service area, which could harm our business and results of operations. In addition, instability in the financial markets as a result of war, terrorism or epidemics may affect our ability to raise capital. A continued military presence in Iraq or any other military strikes may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, such as increased security measures and disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, particularly oil. Uncertainty surrounding retaliatory military strikes or a sustained military campaign may affect our business in unpredictable ways, including disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, and the possibility that our infrastructure facilities (which include our pipelines, production facilities, and transmission and distribution facilities) could be direct targets or indirect casualties of an act of terror. War and the possibility of a prolonged military presence in Iraq may have an adverse effect on the economy in general, which could adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS SPR, NPC and SPPC have received no written comments regarding their periodic or current reports from the SEC staff that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of their 2005 fiscal year and that remain unresolved. 30 Table of Contents 