ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Stockholders and investors should carefully consider the risk factors described below, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report, before making any investment decision with respect to our securities. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, or results of operation could be significantly impacted and the trading price of our common stock could decline: Our growth is subject to a number of economic risks. As widely reported, financial markets in the United States, Europe and Asia have been experiencing extreme disruption in recent months, including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. Governments have taken unprecedented actions intended to address extreme market conditions that include severely restricted credit and declines in real estate values. While currently these conditions have not impaired our ability to access credit markets and finance our operations, there can be no assurance that there will not be a further deterioration in financial markets and confidence in major economies. These economic developments affect businesses such as ours in a number of ways. The current tightening of credit in financial markets adversely affects the ability of customers and suppliers to obtain financing for significant purchases and operations and could result in a decrease in or cancellation of orders for our products and services. Our business is also adversely affected by decreases in the general level of economic activity, such as decreases in business and consumer spending, purchase of electrical safety equipment by consumers and businesses and military procurement. Failure to achieve our operating strategy could negatively affect our revenue and profits. Our operating strategy is to grow revenue and improve gross margin in our military, recreational vehicle, industrial, and consumer markets as well as closely aligned markets if they share similar products or have other synergies. We plan to achieve these growth goals through internal development of new products, acquisitions, strategic partnerships and licensing. We have undertaken a number of initiatives to lower costs, improve asset turnover and reduce our risk. These initiatives include, but are not limited to, product line simplification, establishing product platforms in design, greater utilization of our operations in Honduras, utilizing new designs and operations software to improve quality, accelerate product development and reduce the cost of redesigned products. Any or all of these objectives may not be realized or, if realized, may not result in increased revenue, profitability or market presence. Executing our strategy may also place a strain on our production, information technology systems and other resources. We rely on the availability of substantial working capital to finance our growth and meet our capital requirements. Our ability to continue the growth of our business requires a large amount of working capital. If we are unable to fund this growth, we may not be able to compete effectively. Our requirement for capital depends on the market’s acceptance of our products, the growth of our marketing effort, our ability to expand our customer base, our need for additional capital equipment to adopt new manufacturing methods and new products and for future acquisitions. We cannot be sure that additional financing, if needed, will be available or if such financing will be on favorable terms. Without access to these additional funds, we may not be able to remain competitive. 10 Table of Contents The unavailability of and cost increases in raw materials and components could negatively affect our revenue and profits. Raw materials and components constitute a significant portion of our cost of sales. Factors that are largely beyond our control, such as movements in commodity prices for the specific materials required, may affect the future cost of raw materials and components. As an example, our products require a substantial amount of plastic. Because the primary resource used in manufactured plastics is petroleum, the cost and availability of plastic varies to a great extent with the price of petroleum. We have experienced fluctuations in prices of plastic, as well as steel, aluminum and especially copper, which could continue in fiscal 2011. In addition, the inability of our suppliers to timely deliver raw materials or components could be disruptive and costly. If we are unable to obtain raw materials on a timely basis at an affordable cost or if we experience any significant delays or interruptions of supply, our financial results could be significantly impacted. We depend upon a limited number of key suppliers. We purchase a significant volume of products from contract manufacturers in China. In fiscal 2010, for example, our purchases from vendors in China were $0.9 million and we expect this amount to decrease in fiscal 2011 as we have exited the RAC business. The purchase price for these products is set in U.S. dollars. If the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and Chinese yuan changes so that the yuan appreciates significantly against the dollar, the cost of building our products could increase significantly. We anticipate that outsource providers will play key roles in our manufacturing operations. Although we aim at selecting reputable providers, it is possible that one or more of these providers could fail to perform as we expect and such failure could have an adverse impact on our business. Because of the role of our outsource providers, we will need to monitor the performance of these suppliers and adopt new procedures to deal with and manage the performance of these outsource providers. Any delay or failure in the implementation of our operational changes and monitoring of these relationships could adversely affect our customer relationships and/or have a negative effect on our operating results. The loss of or significant decrease in sales to large customers would adversely affect our revenue and profits. We rely upon a continuous flow of new orders from our large customers. Failure to obtain anticipated orders or delays or cancellations of orders or significant pressure to reduce prices from key customers could have a material adverse effect on us. Our largest customer accounted for 33% of our net revenue for the year ended March 31, 2010. Our largest customer also contracted with us through various subcontractors. If those revenues were included, our largest customer accounted for 37% of our revenue in fiscal 2010. Any reduction in, or cancellation of, orders placed by this customer would at least temporarily, and possibly longer, cause a material reduction in our net revenue, income from operations and net income. In addition, as a result of the desire to more closely manage inventory levels, there is a growing trend in business, especially in our commercial markets, to make purchases on a “just-in-time” basis. This requires us to shorten our lead time for production in certain cases and more closely anticipate demand, which could in the future require the carrying of additional inventories or require additional expenses to expedite delivery. Our long-term contracts may not be renewed. We currently have contracts with the U.S. military to provide control equipment used in engine generator systems. These contracts currently run through 2012. We also are a key supplier of control equipment to DRS, a prime contractor with the U.S. military. As a result of the war in Iraq, demand for these military products has remained strong. If the war ends or significantly winds down or if our contracts with the military expire and are not renewed, demand for these products could be greatly reduced. We may face cancellations, reductions or delays in our product orders that could adversely affect our operating results. From time to time we receive commercial orders from customers that require us to manufacture products on short notice and have such products available for shipment, even though the order may be reduced, cancelled or delayed. Some orders may be designed to meet the unique needs of a particular customer. As a result, changes, delays or cancellations of orders could result in an inventory of unsalable products and possible inventory write-downs that could adversely affect our operating results. Adverse changes in the operations of global manufacturing facilities could decrease our manufacturing capacity. We manufacture a significant number of products in Honduras and obtain a significant proportion of the raw materials and sub-assembly components used in the manufacturing of our products outside the United States. International operations are subject to risks including, among others: • labor unrest; • political instability; • lack of developed infrastructure; 11 Table of Contents • longer payment cycles and greater difficulty in collecting accounts; • increases in investment and other restrictions or requirements by foreign governments in order to operate in the country or own the subsidiary; • import and export duties and quotas; • changes in domestic and international customs and tariffs; • unexpected changes in regulatory environments; • difficulty in complying with a variety of foreign laws; • difficulty in obtaining distribution and support; • the difficulty in management and operation of an enterprise in another country; • potentially adverse tax consequences; and • changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the foreign currency. Labor in Honduras has historically been readily available and at lower cost than available in many other nations; however, we cannot be assured that labor will continue to be available in Honduras at costs consistent with historical levels. A substantial increase in labor costs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation. Interruptions in manufacturing operations could disrupt our business. Approximately 42% of our revenue is derived from products manufactured or assembled at our manufacturing facility in Honduras and by contract manufacturers located in China. These manufacturing operations, as well as our manufacturing plant in Clearwater, Florida, are subject to hazards that could result in material damage to any such facilities. Such damage to or prolonged interruption in the operations of such facilities for repairs, labor disruption, hurricanes, typhoons or other reasons, could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, our contract manufacturing agreements can be terminated on short notice. If our contract manufacturers located in China are unable or unwilling to manufacture and deliver products to enable us to meet the delivery schedules and quality that we require, we could be forced to seek additional suppliers, thereby resulting in further delays and additional expenses in shipping products to our customers. We depend upon our subsidiary in Honduras for a substantial portion of our manufacturing capacity. Managing a distant subsidiary and fully integrating it into our business is challenging. We rely on local supervising officers, managers and staff to carry out our manufacturing operations. The challenge of language differences and cultural factors involved in our operations can stretch our administrative capabilities. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property. We believe that our rights in owned and licensed trademarks are of increasing importance to our business success and that our ability to create demand for our products is dependent to a large extent on our ability to exploit these trademarks, such as our SurgeGuard and Fire Shield® brand name. There can be no assurance as to the breadth or degree of protection that these trademarks may afford us, or that we will be able to successfully leverage our trademarks in the future. The costs associated with protecting our intellectual property rights, including litigation costs, may be material. We also cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully assert our intellectual property rights or that these rights will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. Any inability to do so, particularly with respect to trademarks in which we have made significant capital investments, or a successful intellectual property challenge or infringement proceeding against us, could have a material adverse effect on us. Our success also depends in part on our proprietary technology and patent rights. If we fail to adequately protect this technology and our patent rights, we may lose our competitive position or face significant expense to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights. We intend to continue to protect our proprietary technology through patents, copyrights and trade secrets. Despite this intention, we may not be successful in achieving adequate protection. Claims allowed on any of our patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology and any patents issued to us also may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. With respect to our pending applications for patents, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining patents from these applications. The loss of patent protection could impact our operating results. We currently hold patents on several products, the main patent being the ‘337 patent underlying our Fire Shield® technology for cord fire prevention. This patent provides legal protection against competitors who could unlawfully copy our technology. Once these patents expire, competitors will be able to legally utilize our technology and competition could increase, resulting in lower prices in the marketplace. If we are unable to develop new patented technologies we may be unable to maintain our profit margins and we could lose our technological advantage in the marketplace. Our business can be adversely affected by competitors’ patents. Competitors may register new patents on products that make it very difficult for us to effectively compete in certain markets. As a result, our current products could become obsolete or uneconomical. For example, our products could become difficult to market as a result of a competitor’s patented products that provides equal or superior performance at a lower cost. If we are not able to meet these competitive challenges, we could lose revenue or be forced to write down the value of our inventory. 12 Table of Contents Seasonality can impact our revenue. Our business can vary significantly from quarter to quarter. This seasonality may also result in cash outlays or additional interest expense due to an increased need to borrow funds to maintain sufficient working capital to support such increased demand. We face competition from companies that produce similar products. The markets for our products are highly competitive. We believe that competition is based upon several factors, including price, quality, access to retail shelf space, product features and enhancements, brand names, new product introductions, marketing support and distribution systems. We compete with established companies, a number of which have substantially greater facilities, personnel, financial and other resources. Some competitors may be willing to reduce prices and accept lower profit margins to compete with us. As a result of this competition, we could lose market share and sales, or be forced to reduce our prices to meet competition. In such cases, we could be required to write down our inventory to market value. Additionally, our current products could become obsolete as a result of new customer demands or competitors’ new products. For example, our products could become unmarketable as a result of a new product that provides superior performance at a lower cost. If we cannot adapt to these competitive challenges, we may not be able to effectively compete. Our design and manufacture of products for sale to the United States military, combined with our international supply chain, subjects us to certain governmental regulations, such as the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (“ITAR”). Certain of our products that we sell to the United States military are subject to ITAR, which is administered by the U.S. Department of State. ITAR regulates the export of related technical data and defense services as well as foreign production. Given the current global political climate, there is increased focus by regulators and companies such as ours on ITAR and the actions that it regulates. In October 2008, we received approval from the U.S. government for our manufacturing license agreement between the Company and our Honduran subsidiary and we have begun to transfer work to our facility in Honduras. Also, if we discover issues that are sufficiently material, the U.S. Department of State could impose fines on us, investigate our business practices or impose other remedies upon us which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, the conduct and resolution of any such issues that are sufficiently material could be time consuming, expensive and distracting from the conduct of our business. In addition, if our ITAR-related enhancements and improvements were to fail or be ineffective for a prolonged period of time, it could have a materially adverse effect on our operating results. The introduction of new products involves risks and we may not realize the degree or timing of benefits initially anticipated. We seek to achieve growth through the design, development, production and sale of innovative products. We regularly invest substantial amounts in research and development efforts that pursue new products. Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of these new products depends on a variety of factors, including meeting development, production, certification and regulatory approval schedules; execution of internal performance plans; availability of internal and supplier-produced parts and materials; achieving cost targets and production efficiencies and the level of customer interest in new products. These factors involve significant risks and uncertainties. We may encounter difficulties in developing and producing these new products, and may not realize the degree or timing of benefits initially anticipated. We depend on military contracts for a substantial portion of our revenues and the loss of a military contract or a delay or decline in funding of existing or future military contracts could adversely affect our revenues, cash flow and ability to fund our growth. For the year ended March 31, 2010, 56.6% of our revenue came from military product orders, as compared to 43.5% and 38.1% of total revenues for the fiscal years ended 2009 and 2008, respectively. Because of the growing importance of our military product sales, we are vulnerable if a key military contract is delayed or cancelled for budgetary reasons. The factors that could cause us to lose these contracts or could otherwise materially harm our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations include: • re-allocation of government resources as the result of actual or threatened terrorism or hostile activities or for other reasons; 13 Table of Contents • budget constraints affecting government spending generally, or specific departments such as the U.S. Department of Defense, and changes in fiscal policies or a reduction of available funding; • the adoption of new laws or regulations pertaining to government procurement; • government appropriations delays or shutdowns; • suspension or prohibition from contracting with the government or any significant agency with which we conduct business; • impairment of our reputation or relationships with any significant government agency with which we conduct business; and • delays in the payment of our invoices by government payment offices. Our business may be affected by government contracting risks. U.S. government contracts are subject to termination by the government, either for the convenience of the government or for default as a result of our failure to perform under the applicable contract. Many of the U.S. Government related military orders we have received either as a contractor or subcontractor may extend over a period of years. The U.S. Government military programs are normally funded, however, on an annual basis. Under our contract agreements, the U.S. Government generally has the right to exercise options to extend or expand our contract orders and may modify, suspend or cancel sub orders at its convenience. If terminated by the government as a result of our default, we could be liable for additional costs the government incurs in acquiring undelivered goods or services from another source and any other damages it suffers. If we or one of our business units were charged with wrongdoing as a result of any U.S. government investigation (including violation of certain environmental or export laws), the U.S. government could suspend us from bidding on or receiving awards of new U.S. government contracts pending the completion of legal proceedings. If convicted or found liable, the U.S. government could subject us to fines, penalties, repayments and treble and other damages. The U.S. government could void any contracts found to be tainted by fraud. The U.S. government also reserves the right to debar a contractor from receiving new government contracts for fraudulent, criminal or other seriously improper conduct. Debarment generally does not exceed three years. Independently, failure to comply with U.S. laws and regulations related to the export of goods and technology outside the United States could result in civil or criminal penalties and suspension or termination of our export privileges. We are required to comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administrations and performance of U.S. Government contracts, which affect how we do business with our customers. The laws and regulations for which we are subject include: • Federal Acquisition Regulations govern the formation, administration and performance of U.S. Government contracts; • the Truth in Negotiations Act and implementing regulations require certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiations; • U.S. Government Cost Accounting Standards impose accounting requirements that govern the right to seek reimbursement under certain U.S. Government contracts; • the Civil False Claims Act provides substantial civil penalties that may be assessed for submitting a false or fraudulent claim to the U.S. Government for payment or approval; and • changes in regulations toward contractors such as regulations related to organizational conflicts of interest (OCI) or award protests. Any material failure to comply with applicable laws affecting our military contracts could result in contract termination, price reductions or debarment from contracting. Our ability to expand our revenue depends, in part, on newly acquired businesses or product lines. We may acquire partial or full ownership in businesses or may acquire rights to market and distribute particular products or lines of products. The acquisition of a business or of the rights to market specific products or use specific product names may involve a financial commitment, either in the form of cash or stock consideration. There is no guarantee that the acquired businesses or product lines will contribute positively to earnings. The anticipated synergies may not materialize, cost savings may 14 Table of Contents be less than expected, sales of products may not meet expectations, and acquired businesses may carry unexpected liabilities. Because we have a small management team, we may not be able to effectively assimilate the operations, technologies, personnel and products from the acquired company or our management team may be diverted from our other business concerns. We depend on new products that are technical in nature. Our products are technical in nature and require significant engineering in order to develop. Rapid technological changes in our industry subject us to increased pressure to develop technological advances in our products. We believe that our future success depends in part upon our ability to develop and offer new products with improved capabilities and add additional features and adaptations of our existing products for new uses. If we are unable to develop sufficient new products to remain competitive, or if our products experience reliability problems, our business could be impacted. Although products are tested prior to being sold, unanticipated or latent performance issues could be experienced subsequent to release. If new products have reliability or quality problems, our performance may be impacted by reduced orders, higher manufacturing costs, and additional service and warranty expenses. Additionally, if we incur significant numbers of quality issues, we could initiate a formal product recall which could result in significant additional costs. Our failure to complete commercialization of these products in a timely manner could result in unanticipated costs and inventory obsolescence, which would adversely affect our financial results. Our stock price has been volatile. In recent years, the price of our common stock has fluctuated greatly. The price of our common stock could continue to be volatile and fluctuate in response to a variety of factors including, but not limited to, the following: • general and global economic fluctuation; • quarter-to-quarter variations in our operating results; • material differences in revenue or earnings from levels expected by investors; • announcements of restructurings, technological innovations, reductions in force, departure of key employees, consolidations of operations or introduction of new products; • development in, or claims relating to, patent or other proprietary rights; • success or failure of our new and existing products; • disruptions with key customers or suppliers; or • political, economic or environmental events occurring globally. Government regulations could adversely impact our operations. Throughout the world, most federal, state, provincial and local authorities require Underwriters Laboratory, Inc. or other safety regulation certification prior to marketing electrical products in those jurisdictions. Most of our products have such certifications; however, there can be no assurance that our products will continue to meet such specifications. Many foreign, federal, state and local governments also have enacted laws and regulations that govern the labeling and packaging of products and limit the sale of product containing certain materials deemed to be environmentally sensitive. A determination that our products are not in compliance with such rules and regulations could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. Product liability and product recalls could harm our reputation, revenue and financial condition. We design and manufacture or have manufactured for use our standard products and we assemble these products for delivery to our customers. We also rely on component parts that are manufactured or distributed by other suppliers. In the event that a flaw or deficiency in such products or components is found, we could face product liability claims, recall efforts or we could voluntarily initiate a recall. If a flaw or deficiency in a product or component is discovered before any damages or injury occurs, we may need to initiate a product recall effort. Any such recall initiative could entail substantial costs and adversely affect our reputation, revenue and financial condition. To the extent that claims are brought for personal injury or property damages, we could incur liability for such damages and be required to compensate persons who have suffered injury. Our business and results of operations could be impacted by the implementation of Sarbanes Oxley. Under current rules, we were required to complete an assessment of the adequacy of internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 as of March 31, 2010. We also must include in our assessment, a report detailing management’s assessment of the design effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as well as the operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Although we will devote significant resources into developing and updating the required documentation and perform the required testing, there can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with all of Section 404’s requirements. Additionally, our independent registered public accounting firm must issue an attestation report on the operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of March 31, 2011. If our internal control over financial reporting 15 Table of Contents is not designed or operating effectively, our independent registered public accounting firm may either disclaim an opinion or may issue a qualified opinion as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If this should occur, there could be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn, could cause a decline in the market price of our common stock. We have undertaken and will continue to seek entry into acquisition transactions which, if unsuccessful, could negatively impact our financial position and business operations. To grow our business and implement our core objectives, we have relied upon and will seek to identify acquisition targets we believe will enable TRC to carry out its strategic objectives. These transactions require a significant investment of time, financial resources and may disrupt or impair management’s ability to effectively manage the business. Undertaking a material acquisition presents many other risks which include: • an acquired entity or business may not operate profitably, which could affect our operating income, profit margins and we may be unable to recover the investment we make in the acquisition; • we may be unable to retain major customers of the acquired business after the acquisition is complete; • we may encounter operational and performance problems with an acquired business, product line or product development efforts that had not been fully completed prior to the acquisition; • completing an acquisition may require us to deplete our cash resources, take on additional debt or issue additional shares of capital stock, thereby diluting the ownership interests of our shareholders; and • we may not be able to accurately estimate the financial effect of an acquisition on the profitability of our business or realize improved financial performance as anticipated prior to our entering into the acquisition. Successful integration of Patco into our Company is dependent on several factors, and the failure to realize the expected benefits of the acquisition of Patco could have an adverse effect on our operations. We acquired Patco on March 31, 2010, and, as a result, we significantly increased the size of our operations and business. We cannot assure you that we will be able to integrate the operations of Patco without encountering difficulties. Because Patco’s manufacturing operations are conducted at our leased facility located in Titusville, Florida, we will be required to coordinate a geographically separate manufacturing facility, integrate personnel with disparate business backgrounds and combine different company cultures as a result of the acquisition. Any unexpected difficulties in successfully integrating the operations of Patco into our operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects, and could lead to failure to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Moreover, our management will be required to dedicate substantial time and effort to the integration of Patco into our operations in fiscal 2011. During the integration process, these efforts could divert management’s focus and resources from other strategic opportunities and operational matters. We may not be able to realize the entire book value of goodwill and other intangible assets from acquisitions. As of March 31, 2010, we have approximately $5.5 million of goodwill and $3.9 million of intangible assets. We have implemented the relevant accounting guidance which requires that existing goodwill not be amortized, but instead be assessed annually for impairment or sooner if circumstances indicate a possible impairment. We will monitor for impairment of goodwill on past and future acquisitions. We perform our impairment testing in the fourth quarter of each year. In the event that the book value of goodwill is impaired, any such impairment would be charged to earnings in the period of impairment. There can be no assurances that future impairment of goodwill will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Management performs the goodwill valuation. The risks listed above are not the only risks that we face. Additional risks that are not yet known or that we believe to be immaterial may also impair business operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 