ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks related to NVE and the Utilities Results of Operations Economic conditions could negatively impact our business. Our operations are affected by local, national and global economic conditions. Moreover, the growth of our business depends in part on continued customer growth and tourism demand in the Las Vegas portion of our service area. The consequences of the current recession have included a lower level of economic activity and uncertainty regarding energy prices and the capital and commodity markets, including availability and cost of credit, inflation rates, monetary policy and unemployment rates. A lower level of economic activity, changes in discretionary spending, conservation efforts by our customers, and decreased tourism activity in Las Vegas have resulted in a decline in energy consumption, which has and may continue to adversely affect our revenues and future growth. Instability in the financial markets, as a result of recession or otherwise, also may affect the cost of capital and our ability to raise capital, including the Utilities’ options with respect to replacing their expiring credit facilities, which are discussed in greater detail in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources. Current economic conditions have and continue to be exacerbated by insufficient financial sector liquidity leading to potential increased unemployment, which may impact customers’ ability to pay on a timely basis, increase customer bankruptcies, and lead to increased bad debt. It is expected that commercial and industrial customers will be impacted first with residential customers following, if such circumstances occur. Our operating results will likely fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis. Electric power generation is generally a seasonal business. In many parts of the country, including our service areas, demand for power peaks during the hot summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time. As a result, our operating results in the future will likely fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. In addition, we have historically sold less power, and consequently earned less income, when weather conditions in our service areas are milder. Unusually mild weather in the future could diminish our results of operations and harm our financial condition. Changes in consumer preferences, current recessionary environment, war, and the threat of terrorism or pandemics may harm our future growth and operating results. Changes in consumer preferences or discretionary consumer spending in the Las Vegas portion of our service area could continue to harm our business. We cannot predict the extent to which the current recessionary environment, future terrorist and war activities, or pandemics, in the U.S. and elsewhere may affect us, directly or indirectly. An extended period of reduced discretionary spending and/or disruptions or declines in airline travel and business conventions could significantly harm the businesses in and the continued growth of the Las Vegas portion of our service area, which could harm our business and results of operations. In addition, instability in the financial markets as a result of the current recessionary environment, war, terrorism or pandemics may affect our ability to raise capital. Risks related to NVE and the Utilities’ Environmental Matters If Federal and/or State requirements are imposed on the Utilities mandating further emission reductions, including limitations on carbon dioxide (CO2) or other greenhouse gas emissions, and proposals to reduce the national standards for ozone and other pollutants, such requirements could make some electric generating units, uneconomical to maintain or operate. Emissions of nitrogen and sulfur oxides, mercury and particulates from fossil fueled generating plants are potentially subject to increased regulations, controls and mitigation expenses. Certain Congressional leaders, environmental advocacy groups and regulatory agencies in the United States have also been focusing considerable attention on carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions from power generation facilities and their potential role in climate change. Moreover, there are many legislative and rulemaking initiatives pending at the federal and state level that are aimed at the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, as well as the reduction of the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) for ozone and other pollutants. We cannot predict the outcome of pending or future legislative and rulemaking proposals. Future changes in environmental laws or regulations governing emissions reductions could make certain electric generating units, especially those utilizing coal for fuel, uneconomical to construct, maintain or operate or could require design changes or the adoption of new technologies that could significantly increase costs or delay in-service dates. In addition, any legal obligation that would require the Utilities to substantially reduce their emissions beyond present levels could require extensive mitigation efforts and, in the case of CO2 legislation, would raise uncertainty about the future viability of fossil fuels, particularly coal, as an energy source for new and existing electric generation facilities. 26 The Utilities are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations that may increase our cost of operations, impact or limit our business plans, expose us to environmental liabilities, or make some electric generating units uneconomical to maintain or operate. The Utilities are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations can result in increased capital, construction, operating, and other costs. These laws and regulations generally require us to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals, and may be enforced by both public officials and private individuals. We cannot predict the outcome or effect of any action or litigation that may arise from applicable environmental regulations. In addition, either of the Utilities may be identified as a responsible party for environmental cleanup by environmental agencies or regulatory bodies. We cannot predict with certainty the amount or timing of future expenditures related to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating clean up costs. There is also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on all potentially responsible parties. Environmental regulations may also require us to install pollution control equipment at, or perform environmental remediation on, our facilities. Existing environmental regulations regarding air emissions (such as NOx, SO2 or mercury emissions), water quality and other toxic pollutants may be revised or new climate change laws or regulations may be adopted or become applicable to us. Revised or additional laws or regulations, which may result in increased compliance costs, including the adoption of new technologies or additional operating restrictions, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from our customers. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain or maintain all environmental regulatory approvals necessary to our business. If there is a delay in obtaining any required environmental regulatory approval or if we fail to obtain, maintain or comply with any such approval, operations at our affected facilities could be delayed, halted or subjected to additional costs. Risks related to NVE and the Utilities’ Liquidity and Capital Resources The Utilities plan to make significant capital expenditures to construct new generation and transmission facilities. In addition, the Utilities require liquidity to bridge the cost of fuel and purchased power and other operating activities until recovered through rates. If we are unable to finance such construction or limit the amount of capital expenditures associated with those facilities to forecasted levels, finance or generate sufficient liquidity for fuel and purchased power including, risk management activities, and/or recover amounts spent on construction, fuel and purchased power and other operating activities through future filings with the PUCN, and/or maintain our credit ratings, our financial condition and results of operation could be adversely affected. Our long term business objectives include plans to construct new generation and transmission facilities. We do not currently generate sufficient cash flow to fund the construction plan. Significant construction capital requirements and liquidity to bridge the cost of fuel and purchased power and other operating activities, until recovered through rates, require that the Utilities may finance through significant additional borrowings under the Utilities’ respective credit facilities, through additional debt financings in private or public offerings or through debt or equity financings by NVE. See Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Liquidity and Capital Resources, NVE. We cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, or at all, since the availability and terms of financing depend on financial market conditions, including the effect of volatility in financial and credit markets, changes in availability and cost of capital either due to market conditions or as a result of the Utilities’ credit ratings, or interest rate fluctuations. Neither can we be sure that we will be successful in limiting capital expenditures to planned amounts, particularly in the event of escalating costs for materials, labor and environmental compliance, timing delays and other economic factors. If we cannot adequately replace our expiring credit facilities, obtain favorable financing arrangements for our planned capital expenditures, limit such capital expenditures to forecasted amounts, finance or generate sufficient liquidity for fuel and purchased power, including risk management activities and other operating costs, and/or recover or timely recover amounts spent on construction, fuel and purchased power and other operating activities through future filings with the PUCN, and/or maintain our credit ratings, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Lower than expected investment returns on pension plan assets and other factors may increase NVE’s pension liability and pension funding requirements. Substantially all of NVE employees are covered by a defined benefit pension plan. At present, the pension plan is underfunded in that the projected pension benefit obligation exceeds the aggregate fair value of plan assets. The funded status of the plan can be affected by contributions to plan assets, plan design, investment returns on plan assets, discount rates, mortality rates of plan participants, pension reform legislation and a number of other factors. There can be no assurance that the value of NVE’s pension plan assets will be sufficient to cover future liabilities. Although NVE has made significant contributions to its pension plan in recent years, it is possible that NVE could incur a significant pension liability adjustment, or could be required to make significant additional 27 cash contributions to its plan, which would reduce the cash available for operating activities, and have a material impact on earnings. Refer to Note 11, Retirement Plan and Post-Retirement Benefits of the Notes to Financial Statements. The Utilities are subject to fuel and wholesale electricity pricing risks, which could result in unanticipated liabilities and cash flow requirements or increased volatility in our earnings, and to related credit and liquidity risks. The Utilities’ business and operations are subject to changes in purchased power prices and fuel costs that may cause increases in the amounts they must pay for power supplies on the wholesale market and the cost of producing power in their generation plants. As evidenced by the western utility crisis that began in 2000, prices for electricity, fuel and natural gas may fluctuate substantially over relatively short periods of time and expose the Utilities to significant commodity price risks. Among the factors that could affect market prices for electricity and fuel are: · prevailing market prices for coal, oil, natural gas and other fuels used in generation plants, including associated transportation costs, and supplies of such commodities; · changes in the regulatory framework for the commodities markets that they rely on for purchased power and fuel; · liquidity in the general wholesale electricity market; · the actions of external parties, such as the FERC or independent system operators, that may impose price limitations and other mechanisms to address volatility in the western energy markets; · weather conditions impacting demand for electricity or availability of hydroelectric power or fuel supplies; · union and labor relations; · natural disasters, wars, acts of terrorism, embargoes and other catastrophic events; and · changes in federal and state energy and environmental laws and regulations. As a part of the Utilities’ risk management strategy, they focus on executing contracts for power deliveries to the Utilities’ physical points of delivery to mitigate the commodity-related risks listed above. To the extent that open positions exist, fluctuating commodity prices could have a material adverse effect on their cash flows and their ability to operate and, consequently, on our financial condition. Increasing energy commodity prices, particularly with respect to natural gas, have a significant effect on our short-term liquidity. Although the Utilities are entitled to recover their prudently incurred power, natural gas and fuel costs through deferred energy rate case filings with the PUCN, if current commodity prices increase, the Utilities’ deferred energy balances will increase, which will negatively affect our cash flow and liquidity until such costs are recovered from customers. The Utilities are also subject to credit risk for losses that they incur as a result of non-performance by counterparties of their contractual obligations to deliver fuel, purchased power, natural gas (for resale) or settlement payments. The Utilities often extend credit to counterparties and customers and they are exposed to the risk that they may not be able to collect amounts owed to them. Credit risk includes the risk that a counterparty may default due to circumstances relating directly to it, and also the risk that a counterparty may default due to circumstances that relate to other market participants that have a direct or indirect relationship with such counterparty. Should a counterparty, customer or supplier fail to perform, the Utilities may be required to replace existing contracts with contracts at then-current market prices or to honor the underlying commitment. The Utilities are also subject to liquidity risk resulting from the exposure that their counterparties perceive with respect to the possible non-performance by the Utilities of their physical and financial obligations under their energy, fuel and natural gas contracts. These counterparties may under certain circumstances, pursuant to the Utilities’ agreements with them, seek assurances of performance from the Utilities in the form of letters of credit, prepayment or cash deposits. In periods of price volatility, the Utilities’ exposure levels can change significantly, which could have a significant negative impact on our liquidity and earnings. In the event the Utilities’ credit ratings are downgraded below investment grade, the maximum amount of collateral the Utilities would be required to post is approximately $82.5 million. Refer to Management’s Discussion and Analysis, Factors Affecting Liquidity for NPC and SPPC. As of February 19, 2010, NPC had approximately $429.3 million available under its $589 million revolving credit facility and SPPC has approximately $291.2 million available under its $332 million revolving credit facility. The combined effects of higher natural gas prices, significant deferred energy balances and ongoing under-recovery of fuel, energy and natural gas costs may have a negative effect on our short-term liquidity. 28 If NVE is precluded from receiving dividends from the Utilities, its financial condition, and its ability to meet its debt service obligations, pay dividends and make capital contributions to its subsidiaries, will be materially adversely affected. Since NVE is a holding company, substantially all of its cash flow is provided by dividends paid to NVE by NPC and SPPC on their common stock, all of which is owned by NVE. Since NPC and SPPC are public utilities, they are subject to regulation by state utility commissions, which impose limits on investment returns or otherwise impact the amount of dividends that the Utilities may declare and pay. In addition, certain agreements entered into by the Utilities set restrictions on the amount of dividends they may declare and pay and restrict the circumstances under which such dividends may be declared and paid. As a result of the Utilities’ credit rating on their senior secured debt at investment grade by S&P and Moody’s, these restrictions are suspended and no longer in effect so long as the debt remains investment grade by both rating agencies. In addition to the restrictions imposed by specific agreements, the Federal Power Act prohibits the payment of dividends from “capital accounts.” Although the meaning of this provision is unclear, the Utilities believe that the Federal Power Act restriction, as applied to their particular circumstances, would not be construed or applied by the FERC to prohibit the payment of dividends for lawful and legitimate business purposes from current year earnings, or in the absence of current year earnings, from other/additional paid-in capital accounts. If, however, the FERC were to interpret this provision differently, the ability of the Utilities to pay dividends to NVE could be jeopardized. We cannot assure investors that future dividend payments on our Common Stock will be made or, if made, in what amounts they may be paid. On July 28, 2007, NVE’s BOD declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.08 per share of Common Stock, payable on September 12, 2007. This dividend was the first declared by the BOD since February 2002. Dividends are considered periodically by NVE’s BOD and are subject to factors that ordinarily affect dividend policy, such as current and prospective financial condition, earnings and liquidity, prospective business conditions, regulatory factors, and dividend restrictions in NVE’s and the Utilities’ financing agreements. The BOD will continue to review these factors on a periodic basis to determine if and when it would be prudent to declare a dividend on NVE’s Common Stock. Since the dividend on July 28, 2007 was declared, NVE’s BOD has declared in each of the successive quarters cash dividends; however, there is no guarantee that dividends will be paid in the future, or that, if paid, the dividends will be paid in the same amount or with the same frequency as in the past. NVE’s indebtedness is effectively subordinated to the liabilities of its subsidiaries, particularly NPC and SPPC. NVE and the Utilities have the ability to issue a significant amount of additional indebtedness under the terms of their various financing agreements. Because NVE is a holding company, its indebtedness is effectively subordinated to the Utilities’ existing indebtedness and other future liabilities, including claims by the Utilities’ trade creditors, debt holders, secured creditors, taxing authorities, and guarantee holders. NVE conducts substantially all of its operations through its subsidiaries, and thus NVE’s ability to meet its obligations under its indebtedness and to pay any dividends on its common stock will be dependent on the earnings and cash flows of those subsidiaries and the ability of those subsidiaries to pay dividends or to advance or repay funds to NVE. As of December 31, 2009, the Utilities had approximately $5.0 billion of debt outstanding. The terms of NVE’s indebtedness restrict the amount of additional indebtedness that NVE and the Utilities may issue. Based on NVE’s December 31, 2009 financial statements, assuming an interest rate of 7%, NVE’s indebtedness restrictions would allow NVE and the Utilities to issue up to approximately $1.2 billion of additional indebtedness in the aggregate, unless the indebtedness being issued is specifically permitted under the terms of NVE’s indebtedness. In addition, NPC and SPPC are subject to restrictions under the terms of their various financing agreements on their ability to issue additional indebtedness. Risks related to NVE and the Utilities’ Regulatory Proceedings If the Utilities do not receive favorable rulings in their future GRCs or other regulatory filings, it will have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and future results of operations. The Utilities’ revenues and earnings are subject to change as a result of regulatory proceedings known as GRCs, which the Utilities file with the PUCN approximately every three years. In the Utilities’ GRCs, the PUCN establishes, among other things, their recoverable rate base, their ROE, overall ROR, depreciation rates and their cost of capital. For a discussion of NPC’s and SPPC’s recent GRCs, see Note 3, Regulatory Actions of the Notes to Financial Statements. We cannot predict what the PUCN will direct in their orders on the Utilities’ future GRCs. Inadequate base energy rates would have a significant adverse effect on the Utilities’ financial condition and future results of operations and could cause downgrades of their securities by the rating agencies and make it significantly more difficult or expensive to finance operations and construction projects and to buy fuel, natural gas and purchased power from third parties. 29 If the Utilities do not receive favorable rulings in the deferred energy applications that they file with the PUCN and they are unable to recover their deferred purchased power, natural gas and fuel costs, including changes in prices due to temporary suspension of hedging programs, they will experience an adverse impact on cash flow and earnings. Any significant disallowance of deferred energy charges in the future could materially adversely affect their cash flow, financial condition and liquidity. Under Nevada law, purchased power, natural gas and fuel costs in excess of those included in base rates are deferred as an asset on the Utilities’ balance sheets and are not shown as an expense until recovered from their retail customers. The Utilities are required to file DEAA applications with the PUCN at least once every twelve months so that the PUCN may verify the prudence of the energy costs. Nevada law also requires the PUCN to act on these cases within a specified time period. Any of these costs determined by the PUCN to have been imprudently incurred cannot be recovered from the Utilities’ customers. Past disallowances in the Utilities’ deferred energy cases have been significant, which resulted in ratings downgrades of our debt securities and adversely affected our liquidity and access to capital markets. For a discussion of NPC’s and SPPC’s recent and pending deferred energy rate cases, see Note 3, Regulatory Actions of the Notes to Financial Statements. Material disallowances of deferred energy costs, gas costs or inadequate BTERs would have a significant adverse effect on the Utilities’ financial condition and future results of operations, could cause downgrades of NVE’s and the Utilities’ securities by the rating agencies and could make it more difficult or expensive to finance operations and construction projects and buy fuel, natural gas and purchased power from third parties. Historically, the Utilities have purchased a significant portion of the power that they sell to their customers from power suppliers. If the Utilities’ and/or their power suppliers’ credit ratings are downgraded, the Utilities may experience difficulty entering into new power supply contracts, and to the extent that they must rely on the spot market, they may experience difficulty obtaining such power from suppliers in the spot market in light of their financial condition, or the financial condition of their power suppliers. In addition, if the Utilities experience unexpected failures or outages in their generation facilities, they may need to purchase a greater portion of the power they provide to their customers. If they do not have sufficient funds or access to liquidity to obtain their power requirements, particularly for NPC at the onset of the summer months, and are unable to obtain power through other means, their business, operations and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. If the Utilities cannot maintain the required level of renewable energy or procure sufficient solar energy to meet Nevada’s increasing Portfolio Standard the PUCN may, among other things, impose an administrative fine for noncompliance. Nevada law sets forth the Portfolio Standard requiring providers of electric service to acquire, generate, or save from renewable energy systems or energy efficiency measures a specific percentage of its total retail energy sales from renewable energy sources, including biomass, geothermal, solar, waterpower, wind, and recovered energy generation projects. In 2009 and 2010 the Utilities are required to obtain an amount of PECs equivalent to 12% of their total retail energy from renewables. The Portfolio Standard increases to 15% for 2011 and 2012, to 18% for 2013 and 2014, and reaches 20% in 2015, after which it increases again to 22% for the years 2020 through 2024, and to 25% for 2025 and beyond. Moreover, not less than 5% of the total Portfolio Standard must be met from solar resources until 2016, when a minimum of 6% must be solar. In the event the Utilities do not fully meet the standard in a given year, if the PUCN does not exempt them, they will be required to make up the PEC deficiency in subsequent years. Due to periodic increases in the Portfolio Standard and increasing retail sales, the Utilities must acquire increasing amounts of renewable energy. The Utilities’ success in meeting the increasing Portfolio Standard remains largely dependent on their ability to acquire additional renewable energy from either self-owned renewable generation facilities or the purchase of renewable energy from third-party developers or other utilities and a decrease in demand through qualified conservation and energy efficiency measures. In 2009 the PUCN issued its order finding the Utilities fully compliant with the Portfolio Standard for 2008. The Utilities’ ability to access the capital markets is dependent on their ability to obtain regulatory approval to do so. The Utilities will need to continue to support working capital and capital expenditures, and to refinance maturing debt, through external financing. The Utilities must obtain regulatory approval in Nevada in order to borrow money or to issue securities and are therefore dependent on the PUCN to issue favorable orders in a timely manner to permit them to finance their operations, construction and acquisition costs and to purchase power and fuel necessary to serve their customers. On February 4, 2009, the PUCN approved financing authority for NPC to issue up to $1.25 billion of long-term debt securities over a two-year period ending December 31, 2010; ongoing authority to maintain a revolving credit facility of up to $1.3 billion and authority to refinance up to approximately $471 million of long term debt securities. On October 28, 2009, the PUCN approved financing authority for SPPC to issue up to $350 million of long-term debt securities over a three-year period ending December 31, 2012; ongoing authority to maintain a revolving credit facility of up to $600 million; and authority to refinance up to approximately $348 million of long-term debt securities. However, we cannot assure you that in the future the PUCN will issue such favorable orders or that such favorable orders will be issued on a timely basis. 30 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 