Item 1A: Risk Factors Our future performance is subject to a variety of risks. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business could be harmed and the trading price of our common stock could decline. In addition to the following disclosures, please refer to the other information contained in this report, including consolidated financial statements and the related notes. Risks Related to our Business and Operations Any reduction in Government spending on ISR could materially adversely impact our revenues, results of operations, and financial condition. Historically, defense and intelligence agencies of the United States Government have accounted for almost all of our revenues. There are risks associated with programs that are subject to appropriation by Congress, which could be potential targets for reductions in funding to pay for other programs. Future reductions in United States Government spending on global security or future changes in the kind of products or services required by the United States Government agencies could limit demand for our products and services, which could result in failure to achieve anticipated revenues, resulting in a materially adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. In the event there are shifts in responsibilities and functions among the Government agencies responsible for United States defense and intelligence, it could result in a reduction of orders for global security by the defense and intelligence agencies that have historically been our major customers. Our relationships with other Government agencies to which responsibilities and functions for our contracts have shifted may not be as strong as our relationships with current customer agencies. Accordingly, a reduction in contracts from our customer agencies may not be offset by contracts from other United States Government agencies. Even if other agencies increase spending for global security, we may not secure the same amount of work from these agencies. As a result, demand for our products and services could decline, resulting in a decrease in revenues, and could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition materially. We depend on revenues from a few significant contracts, and any loss, cancellation, reduction, or delay in these contracts could harm our business. From time to time, including recent periods, we have derived a material portion of our revenue from one or more individual contracts that could be terminated by the customer in full or in part at the customer’s discretion. In the past, we have experienced a significant reduction of, and stop work order on, one of our largest contracts. We expect that in future periods we may again enter into individual contracts with significant revenue concentrations. In addition, the majority of our contracts are with a limited number of Government agencies. If our individually large contracts were terminated or substantially reduced, we could fail to achieve expected revenues and net income. United States Government contracts are generally not fully funded at inception and funding may be terminated or reduced at any time. We act as a prime contractor or subcontractor for many different United States Government programs. Department of Defense and intelligence contracts typically involve long lead times for design and development and are subject to significant changes in contract scheduling. Programs can be partially funded initially, and additional funds may or may not be allocated. The termination or reduction of funding for a Government program would result in a loss of anticipated future revenues attributable to that program. Our backlog as of October 31, 2009, was approximately $139.1 million and includes orders under awards that in some cases extend several years. The actual receipt of revenues on awards included in backlog may never occur or may change because a program schedule could change or the program could be canceled, or a contract could be reduced, modified, or terminated early. We depend on revenues from a few significant customers; the loss of any significant customer could have an adverse effect on our business. Our success will depend on our continued ability to develop and manage relationships with significant customers. The markets in which we sell our products are dominated by a relatively small number of Governmental agencies and allies of the United States Government, thereby limiting the number of potential customers. Our dependence on large orders from a relatively small number of customers makes our relationship with each customer critical to our business. We cannot be sure that we will be able to retain our largest customers, that we will be able to attract additional customers, or that our customers will continue to buy our products and services in the same amounts as in prior years. The loss of one or more of our largest customers, any reduction or delay in sales to these customers, our inability to successfully develop relationships with additional customers, or future price concessions that we may have to make could significantly harm our business. Any decrease in expected product sales during a period could adversely impact our revenues, results of operations, and financial condition. From time to time, we have derived a significant portion of our revenue from product sales. In recent periods, however, we have been focusing on sales of systems and software, and targeting larger programs. In addition, we have experienced some seasonality in product sales to the United States Government, with more product sales occurring in the second half of the fiscal year than in the first. The amount and timing of Government purchases of products is unpredictable, and fluctuates significantly from period to period, making it difficult for us to predict the amount of revenue we will generate from product sales in any particular period, and causing our revenues to fluctuate from period to period. If we are not able to generate revenues from product sales as expected in a particular perio d, we may fail to meet our revenue expectations and the expectations of industry analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. If we are unable to recruit, train, and retain key personnel with required security clearances, our ability to develop, introduce, and sell our products may be adversely impacted. Our ability to execute our business plan is contingent upon successfully attracting and retaining qualified employees who obtain, or are able to obtain and retain, necessary Government security clearances. If we fail to attract and retain qualified employees who can obtain the necessary security clearances, our business could be significantly harmed. The loss of the services of our qualified employees, the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel in the future, or delays in hiring required personnel could negatively impact our ability to develop, introduce, and sell our products. In addition, employees may leave us and subsequently compete against us. Many of the personnel we hire will need United States Government security clearances in order to perform tasks required on our Government contracts, and without such clearances, employees cannot work on the majority of our projects. We have found that there is a shortage of qualified personnel possessing the necessary clearances, and new security clearances are taking longer to be granted. If we are not able to obtain security clearances for our personnel where required, they will be unable to perform tasks requiring clearances, and we may be unable to satisfy the terms of our contracts, resulting in customer dissatisfaction and possible loss of current or future contracts. Stop-work orders could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. Almost all of our contracts contain stop-work clauses that permit the Government or other contracting party, at any time, by written order, to stop work on all or any part of the work called for by the contract for a period of ninety days. Within the ninety-day period, the other contracting party may cancel the stop-work order and resume work or terminate all or part of the work covered by the stop-work order. There can be no assurance that stop-work orders will not be received in future periods. If we receive stop work orders, our orders and backlog may be reduced, and we may fail to achieve anticipated revenues. Unexpected contract terminations could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. Almost all of our contracts contain termination clauses that permit contract termination upon default or for the convenience of the other contracting party. In either case, termination could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2008, we received a termination for the convenience of the Government related to several delivery orders under the Stone Face II IDIQ contract. During fiscal year 2009, we reduced backlog by approximately $3.7 million as a result of the settlement of a portion of these terminated efforts. We anticipate the remaining balance of approximately $0.9 million will be settled in future periods. We received no such terminations in fiscal year 2007. If we are unable to comply with complex Government regulations governing security and contracting practices, we could be disqualified as a supplier to the United States Government. As a supplier to United States Government defense and intelligence agencies, we must comply with numerous regulations, including those governing security and contracting practices. Failure to comply with these procurement regulations and practices could result in fines being imposed against us or our suspension for a period of time from eligibility for bidding on, or for award of, new Government contracts. If we are disqualified as a supplier to Government agencies, we will lose most, if not all, of our customers, revenues from sales of our products would decline significantly, and our ability to continue operations would be seriously jeopardized. Among the causes for fines or disqualification are violations of various statutes, including those relat ed to procurement integrity, the Truth In Negotiations Act, export control, United States Government security regulations, employment practices, protection of the environment, accuracy of records in the recording of costs, and foreign corruption. In addition, the programs we support and systems we develop, install and maintain involve managing and protecting information involved in intelligence, national security and other classified Government functions. A security breach by us or our employees in the course of our development, production or service activities could cause serious harm to our business, damage our reputation and prevent us from being eligible for further work on critical classified systems for United States Government customers. The Government may investigate and make inquiries of our business practices and conduct audits of contract performance and cost accounting. The Government audits and investigations can take several years to complete. Depending on the results of these audits and investigations, the Government may make claims against us or take exception to certain costs we determined to be recoverable. In the period management determines recoverability is not likely, operating income would be reduced. For example, during fiscal year 2008, the Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA) advised us that we are considered a major contractor and are subject to more audits and oversight. The results of these and future audits could result in sustained claims against us. In those cases where we believe that the Government is likely to prevail, we have reduced operating income by establishing appropriate reserves for the estimated loss. We implemented a new multi-rate structure in fiscal year 2009 that we believe should have several positive effects on our business. The Defense Contract Audit Agency performed initial reviews of our new rate structure without taking exception. However, we believe this new rate structure is subject to further audit. If the United States Government does not agree with our approach, our revenues and operating income could be reduced. Our business depends upon our relationships with, and the performance of, our prime contractors. We expect to continue to depend on relationships with other contractors for a substantial portion of our revenues in the foreseeable future. Our business, prospects, financial condition, or operating results could be adversely affected if other contractors terminate or reduce their subcontracts or relationships with us, either because they choose to establish relationships with our competitors or because they choose to directly offer services that compete with our business. Our business also suffers if the prime contractor fails to win the contract, or if the Government terminates or reduces these other contractors’ programs or does not award them new or additional contracts. In addition, on those contracts for which we are not the prime contractor, the United States Government could terminate a prime contract under which we are subcontractor, regardless of the quality of our performance as a subcontractor. A prime contractor’s performance deficiencies could adversely affect our status as a subcontractor on the program, jeopardize our ability to collect award or incentive fees, cause customers to delay payments, and result in contract terminations. Continued competition in ISR may lead to a reduction in our revenues and market share. The global security market is highly competitive and we expect that competition will continue to increase in the future. Our current competitors have significantly greater technical, manufacturing, financial, and marketing resources than we do. We expect that more companies will enter the market for global security, possibly resulting in pricing pressures on our products and services. We may not be able to compete successfully against either current or future competitors. Increased competition could result in reduced revenue, lower margins, or loss of market share, any of which could significantly harm our business. Our competitors may introduce improved products with lower prices, and we would have to do the same to remain competitive. Unexpected increases in the cost to develop or manufacture our products under fixed-price contracts may cause us to experience unreimbursed cost overruns resulting in reduced profit margins or increased loss provisions. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from fixed-price contracts. Under fixed-price contracts, unexpected increases in the cost to develop or manufacture a product, whether due to inaccurate estimates in the bidding process, unanticipated increases in materials costs, unfavorable indirect rate variances, inefficiencies, or other factors, are borne by us. We have experienced cost overruns in the past that have resulted in losses on certain contracts, and may experience additional cost overruns in the future. Such cost overruns would increase our operating expenses, reduce our net income and earnings per share, and could have a material, adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition. Fixed-price contracts use percentage-of-completion accounting to determine profit margins. Under generally accepted accounting principles, unexpected cost over-runs can change the percentage completion estimates and result in reduced profit margins and the reversal of previously recognized profits in addition to reducing future period profits. Although we believe that our profit margins are fairly stated and that adequate provisions for losses for our fixed-price contracts are recorded in our financial statements as required under accounting principles generally accepted within the United States, there can be no assurance that our contract profit margins will not decrease or our loss provision will not increase in the future. Our market is subject to rapid technological change, and to compete effectively, we must continually introduce new signal processing solutions that achieve market acceptance. The market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology, frequent new product introductions, changes in customer requirements, and evolving industry standards. We believe that we have been successful to date in identifying certain global security needs early, investing in research and development to meet these needs, and delivering products before our competitors. We believe that our future success will depend upon continued development and timely introduction of products capable of satisfying emerging global security needs. However, we expect that new requirements will continue to emerge. Our future performance will depend on the successful development, introduction, and market acceptance of new and enhanced products that address these new requirements. The introduction of new and enhanced products may cause our customers to defer or cancel orders for existing products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to develop and market new products successfully in the future or respond effectively to new requirements, or that new products introduced by others will not render our products or technologies noncompetitive or obsolete. We also may not be able to develop the underlying core technologies necessary to create new products and enhancements or to license these technologies from third parties. Product development delays may result from numerous factors, including: Changing product specifications and customer requirements Difficulties in hiring and retaining necessary technical personnel Difficulties in reallocating engineering resources and overcoming resource limitations Difficulties with contract manufacturers Changing market or competitive product requirements Unanticipated engineering complexities The development of new, technologically advanced products is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation and highly skilled engineering and development personnel, as well as the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. We cannot ensure that we will be able to identify, develop, manufacture, market, or support new or enhanced products successfully, or on a timely basis, if at all. Further, we cannot ensure that our new products will gain market acceptance or that we will be able to respond effectively to product announcements by competitors, technological changes, or emerging industry standards. Any failure to respond to technological change would significantly harm our business. We derive revenue from royalties, the timing of which can be difficult to predict and sustain. We derive royalty income from the sale of products licensed to other third parties for sale, and expect to continue to derive royalty income in the future. Revenue derived from royalties provides greater profitability to us than revenue from the sale of our products and services. Accordingly, our operating income and earnings per share will be impacted by the comparative mix of revenue from our digital signal processing products, systems, and services and revenue derived from royalty income. Although we have licensed one of our products for sale by a third party, and expect to increase our efforts in future periods, we have not historically devoted significant resources to licensing our technologies. We believe there is a life cycle to the technology upon which this royalty revenue is based. We anticipate that royalty revenues from th is agreement could decline in future periods. Our future ability to generate royalty income depends upon: Our ability to secure patent coverage for our technologies and enter into license agreements with potential licensees The ability of our licensees to develop and commercialize successful products that incorporate our technologies The rate of adoption of our technologies by, and the incorporation of our technologies into products of, other parties In addition, royalty-based income is subject to the willingness and ability of licensees to design and assemble products using our technology, the pricing and demand for products incorporating our technology, and our ability to negotiate and enforce agreements for the determination and payment of royalties. It is difficult to predict when we will enter into additional license agreements, if at all. The timing of our receipt of royalty payments, including payments from our existing royalty-based arrangement, is also difficult to predict, and may fluctuate from period to period, causing our revenues to fluctuate from period to period, which may significantly impact our quarterly or annual operating results. If we are not able to generate royalty income as expected in a particular period, we may fail to meet our revenue expectations, our operating income may decline disproportionately, and we may fail to meet the expectations of industry analysts and inves tors, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our future revenues are inherently unpredictable, our operating results are likely to fluctuate from period to period, and if we fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price could decline significantly. Our quarterly and annual operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate significantly in the future due to a variety of factors, some of which are outside our control. Accordingly, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. Some of the factors that could cause our quarterly or annual operating results to fluctuate include conditions inherent in Government contracting and our business such as the timing of cost and expense recognition for contracts, the United States Government contracting and budget cycles, and contract closeouts. Because we base ou r operating expenses on anticipated revenue trends and a high percentage of our expenses are fixed in the short term, any delay in generating or recognizing forecasted revenues could significantly harm our business. Fluctuations in quarterly results, competition, or announcements of extraordinary events such as acquisitions or litigation may cause earnings to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In this event, the trading price of our common stock could significantly decline. In addition, there can be no assurance that an active trading market will be sustained for our common stock. The stock market in recent years has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices of many technology companies. These fluctuations, as well as general economic and market conditions, may adversely affect the future market price of our common stock. Delays in the receipt of contracts could negatively impact our business. During our history, the receipt of certain final contracts has periodically been delayed to periods later than originally expected. Delays in the receipt of such orders could result in revenues falling short of estimates. On some of these contracts, we will make expenditures in advance of receipt of the final contract in anticipation of meeting the expected timetables, and will from time to time hire personnel in anticipation of receipt of the contract. If the contract is delayed, these costs are not covered. In addition, gross margins and net income will decrease if we elect to hold our cost structure in place while awaiting the award of delayed contracts. We have been named as a party to securities class action and derivative action lawsuits, which may require significant management time and attention and legal expense, and may result in an unfavorable outcome, which could have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Applied Signal and one officer and one former officer have been named in a purported securities class action complaint filed in the United States District Court, Northern District of California In re Applied Signal Technology Inc. Securities Litigation, Master File No. 4:05-cv-1027 (SBA). The amended consolidated complaint is brought on behalf of a putative class of persons who purchased our securities during a class period of August 24, 2004, through February 22, 2005. The complaint alleges that false and misleading statements regarding us were issued during the class period. In addition, we have been named as a nominal defendant in a purported shareholder derivative action filed in the Superior Court, State of California as Shoemaker v. Devine et al., No. 1:08-CV-119810. It is brought on purported behalf of the Company, against current and former members of the Board of Directors, our Chief Financial Officer, and our former Chief Executive Officer, asserting that these individuals breached their fiduciary duties, based on essentially the same allegations as the class action case. Although the parties have agreed to a settlement, which will be paid by our insurers, and on August 3, 2009, the District Court gave final approval to a settlement of this case, a purported appeal of a ruling denying a motion to intervene has been filed. Accordingly, we expect to continue to incur legal fees in responding to these lawsuits, including expenses for the reimbursement of legal fees of present and former officers and directors under indemnification obligations. The expense of defending such lit igation may be significant. The amount of time to resolve this and any additional lawsuits is unpredictable and these actions may divert management’s attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and cash flows. Our results of operations could be negatively impacted if we are required to write off inventory deemed not saleable or usable. Some of our products or raw materials may become obsolete or unusable while in inventory. This could be due to changing customer specifications, decreases in demand for existing products, or changes in Government spending on signal intelligence. Work in process deemed not saleable is written off to contract costs in our statement of operations, while unusable raw materials are written off to general and administrative expenses. We may lose sales if our suppliers fail to meet our needs. Although we procure most of our parts and components from multiple sources or believe that these components are readily available from numerous sources, certain components are available only from sole sources or from a limited number of sources. While we believe that substitute components or assemblies could be obtained, use of substitutes would require development of new suppliers or would require us to re-engineer our products, or both, which could delay shipment of our products and could have a materially adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Our failure to protect our intellectual property may significantly harm our business. Our success and ability to compete is dependent in part on our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality agreements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We license certain of our proprietary technology to customers, and we rely largely on provisions of our licensing agreements to protect our intellectual property rights in this technology. To date, we have relied primarily on proprietary processes and know-how to protect our intellectual property. Although we have filed applications for several patents, five of which we currently hold, we cannot ensure that any patents will be issued as a result of pending patent applications or that our issued patents will be upheld. Any infringement of our proprietary rights could result in significant litig ation costs, and any failure to adequately protect our proprietary rights could result in our competitors offering similar products, potentially resulting in loss of a competitive advantage and decreased revenues. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, existing patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret laws afford only limited protection. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Attempts may be made to copy or reverse engineer aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Accordingly, we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our technology or deter others from developing similar technology. Furthermore, policing the unauthorized use of our products is difficult. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. This litigation c ould result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, and could significantly harm our business. The United States Government has rights to our technology that limits our intellectual property rights. Although we seek to protect the competitive benefits we derive from our patents, proprietary information, and other intellectual property, we do not have the right to prohibit the United States Government from using certain technologies developed or acquired by us or to prohibit third party companies, including our competitors, from using those technologies in providing products and services to the United States Government. The United States Government has the right to royalty-free use of technologies that we have developed under United States Government contracts. We may commercially exploit those Government-funded technologies and may assert our intellectual property rights against other non-Government users of technology developed by us, but we may not be successful in our efforts to do so. Claims that we infringe third-party intellectual property rights could result in significant expenses or restrictions on our ability to sell our products. It is possible that from time to time, other parties may assert patent, copyright, trademark, and other intellectual property rights to technologies and in various jurisdictions that are important to our business. Any claims asserting that our products infringe or may infringe proprietary rights of third parties, if determined adverse to us, could significantly harm our business. Any claims, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, cause product shipment delays, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, any of which could significantly harm our business. For example, we have filed a patent infringement claim and countersuits related to the claim have been filed against us. For fu rther details, please see “Item 3: Legal Proceedings”. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. In addition, our agreements with our customers typically require us to indemnify our customers from any expense or liability resulting from claimed infringement of third-party intellectual property rights. In the event a claim against us was successful and we could not obtain a license to the relevant technology on acceptable terms, license a substitute technology, or redesign our products to avoid infringement, our business would be significantly harmed. Risks Related to Acquisitions We intend to continue to pursue selective acquisitions of businesses or complementary technologies, which could involve costs and other risks, and may not provide the expected benefits. Over the last several years, we have made acquisitions and investments in areas complementary to our historic COMINT offerings, such as our acquisition of Dynamics Technology, Inc. and Pyxis Engineering LLC and our research and development into the ELINT market. As a result, we have expanded our product offerings, approached new customers, and entered into new markets for advanced digital signal processing products, systems, and services in support of ISR for global security. Although we intend to continue to grow by acquisition, expand into new markets, and invest in products and markets complementary to our existing and new businesses, we may be unable to realize the benefits of our investments. Acquisitions could require significant capital infusions and could involve many risks, including, but not limited to, the following: We may have to issue convertible debt or equity securities to complete an acquisition, which may dilute the interests of our stockholders and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock An acquisition may negatively impact our results of operations because it may require us to write down amounts related to goodwill and amortize other intangible assets, or incur or assume substantial debt or liabilities, or it may cause adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation, or deferred compensation charges We may encounter difficulties in assimilating and integrating the business, products, technologies, personnel, or operations of companies that we acquire Certain acquisitions may impact our relationship with existing or potential partners who are competitive with the acquired business, products, or technologies Acquisitions may require significant capital infusions and the acquired businesses, products, or technologies may not generate sufficient value to justify acquisition costs An acquisition may disrupt our ongoing business, divert resources, increase our expenses, and distract our management Acquisitions may involve the entry into a market in which we have little or no prior experience Key personnel of an acquired company may decide not to work for us If any of these risks occurred, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, we may be unable to identify potential future acquisition candidates, or reach agreement on acceptable terms with potential acquisition candidates, adversely impacting our ability to grow by acquisition. If we do pursue and complete any acquisitions, it is possible that we may not realize the anticipated benefits from such acquisitions or that the market will not view such acquisitions positively. We may not be successful in our expansion of our products and markets, and may not realize the benefits of our investments in new markets. We may be unable to successfully integrate the businesses of acquired companies. We will have to integrate the operations of any acquired company, including Pyxis Engineering, into our combined operations. Integration may require significant efforts, including the coordination of future development and sales and marketing efforts. We may find it difficult to integrate operations. Former customers of the acquired company may decline to do business with us. The challenges involved in the integration of the acquisition include, but are not limited to, the following: Retaining the customers and strategic partners of the acquired company and enhancing the relationship of the combined company with current and future customers and strategic partners of the acquired company Integrating and retaining the key employees from the acquired company, as well as retaining key employees of ours performing similar services to those offered by the acquired company prior to the acquisition Coordinating development activities to enhance the services offered by the acquired company and us Expanding the services offered by the combined company following the acquisition Effectively managing the diversion of management’s attention from business matters to integration issues Combining development, sales, and marketing activities effectively and quickly Combining our business culture with the business culture of the acquired company Enhancing the internal controls of the operations acquired in the acquisition Even if we are able to integrate the acquisition with our operations, there can be no assurance that the anticipated benefits will be achieved. The failure to achieve such benefits could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Since we have surpassed the 750 employee size standard eligibility for new awards under the Small Business Innovative Research (“SBIR”) program, any “small business” company we acquire will likely lose its eligibility to bid on new SBIR contracts once it is acquired by us. In addition, the imposition of Small Business Administration rules requiring small businesses to recertify as to their small business status before award of options or extensions to existing contracts may limit our ability to meet our growth objectives from acquired small businesses. For these or other reasons, we may be unable to retain key customers of acquired companies or to retain or renew contracts of acquired companies. Moreover, any acquired business may fail to generate the revenue or net income we expected or produce the efficiencies or cost-savings that we anticipated. Any of these outcomes could materially adversely affect our operating results. We expect to incur significant costs associated with the acquisition. We expect that our acquisitions could be of smaller companies, such as our acquisition of Pyxis, operating without a large infrastructure or robust internal controls. We will need to integrate the operations of these acquired companies, including Pyxis, with our own operations, and ensure the development of appropriate controls and procedures commensurate with the controls and procedures with which we operate all of our other operations. We expect that we will incur direct transaction costs associated with such acquisitions, including direct costs of the acquisition as well as liabilities to be accrued in connection with the acquisition. In addition, we may incur charges to operations, which are not currently reasonably estimable, in the quarter in which the acquisition is completed or the following quarters, to reflect costs associated with integrat ing the acquisition. There is no assurance that we will not incur additional material charges in subsequent quarters to reflect additional costs associated with the acquisition. If the benefits of the acquisition do not exceed the costs of the acquisition, our financial results may be adversely affected. We may incur significant amounts of goodwill associated with acquisitions. We expect that any acquisition we complete will be accounted for by using the purchase method of accounting, such as in our acquisition of Pyxis Engineering. A portion of the purchase price in such acquisitions will be allocated to identifiable tangible and intangible assets and assumed liabilities based on valuation analysis of fair values at the date of consummation of the acquisition. Any excess purchase price will be allocated to goodwill. Goodwill and certain other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortized but are reviewed at least annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications of impairment. All other intangible assets are subject to periodic amortization. We evaluate the remaining useful lives of other intangibles each quarter to determine whether events and circumstances warrant a revision to the remaining period of amortization. When the combined company performs future impairment tests, it is possible that the carrying value of goodwill or other intangible assets could exceed their implied fair value and therefore would require adjustment. Such adjustment would result in a charge to operating income in that period. Once adjusted, there can be no assurance that there will not be further adjustments for impairment in future periods. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments None. 