Item 1A: Risk Factors Our future performance is subject to a variety of risks. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business could be harmed and the trading price of our common stock could decline. In addition to the following disclosures, please refer to the other information contained in this report, including consolidated financial statements and the related notes. We may not be successful in our expansion of our products and markets, and may not realize the benefits of our investments in these new markets. We are subject to a number of special risks as a result of our acquisition of Dynamics Technology, Inc. (DTI). On July 1, 2005, we acquired DTI for approximately $30.1 million, plus estimated transaction costs. As a result of this acquisition, together with investments we are making in other areas complementary to our historic COMINT offerings, we are expanding our products, approaching new customers, and entering into new markets for advanced digital signal processing products, systems, and services in support of intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (ISR) for global security. Our operations during fiscal year 2006 were, and are expected to continue to be, substantially influenced by the operations of the businesses we acquired from DTI as well as from our continued investment in products and markets complementary to our existing and new businesses. This expansion subjects us to a number of risks and uncertainties, including: We are entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience. We may not be successful in these markets, and we may be unable to enter into new contracts for these new business lines or grow the combined business. We may not achieve the strategic objectives and other anticipated potential benefits of the acquisition of DTI or the investment in other products. Our failure to achieve these strategic objectives could have a material, adverse effect on our revenues, expenses, and operating results. As a result of the acquisition of DTI, we incurred debt in the amount of $10 million, of which $8.2 million remains outstanding as of October 31, 2006, and our failure to repay this debt when due would materially, adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may also be assuming unknown liabilities, risk the incurrence of expenses related to the future impairment of goodwill, or the incurrence of other large write-offs immediately or in the future. We may not achieve the anticipated benefits of our investments in new business opportunities and any such investments could have a negative, material impact on our operating results and financial condition. We have expanded our historical COMINT business into ELINT, and have expanded our signal processing capabilities as a result of our acquisition of DTI. This diversification requires us to invest additional capital, open new facilities, and incur additional R&D expenditures. In addition, diversification results in diversion of management’s attention from our historic business. Although we believe that entering into these new business areas will be important to remaining competitive in the defense electronics marketplace, there can be no assurance that we will derive benefits from this diversification, our core business could suffer, and we could incur significant unanticipated costs, which could have a material impac t on our results of operations. Any decrease in expected product sales during a period could adversely impact our revenues, results of operations, and financial condition. From time to time, we have derived a significant portion of our revenue from product sales. In recent periods, however, we have been focusing on sales of systems and software, and targeting larger programs. In addition, we have experienced some seasonality in product sales to the United States Government, with more product sales occurring in the second half of the fiscal year than the first. The amount and timing of Government purchases of products is unpredictable, and fluctuates significantly from period to period, making it difficult for us to predict the amount of revenue we will generate from product sales in any particular period, and causing our revenues to fluctuate from period to period. If we are not able to generate revenues from product sales as expected in a particular period, w e may fail to meet our revenue expectations and the expectations of industry analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. If we are unable to recruit, train, and retain key personnel with required security clearances, our ability to develop, introduce, and sell our products may be adversely impacted. Our ability to execute our business plan is contingent upon successfully attracting and retaining qualified employees who obtain, or are able to obtain and retain, necessary government security clearances. If we fail to attract and retain qualified employees who can obtain the necessary security clearances, our business could be significantly harmed. The loss of the services of our qualified employees, the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel in the future, or delays in hiring required personnel could negatively impact our ability to develop, introduce, and sell our products. In addition, employees may leave us and subsequently compete against us. Many of the personnel we hire will need United States Government security clearances in order to perform tasks required on our government contracts, and without such clearances, employees cannot work on the majority of our projects. We have found that there is a shortage of qualified personnel possessing the necessary clearances, and new security clearances are taking longer to be granted. If we are not able to obtain security clearances for our personnel where required, they will be unable to perform tasks requiring clearances, and we may be unable to satisfy the terms of our contracts, resulting in customer dissatisfaction and possible loss of current or future contracts. Stop-work orders could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. Almost all of our contracts contain stop-work clauses that permit the Government or other contracting party, at any time, by written order, to stop work on all or any part of the work called for by the contract for a period of ninety days. Within the ninety-day period, the other contracting party may cancel the stop-work order and resume work or terminate all or part of the work covered by the stop-work order. There can be no assurance that stop-work orders will not be received in future periods. If we receive additional stop work orders, our orders and backlog may be reduced, and we may fail to achieve anticipated revenues. Any reduction in government spending on ISR could materially adversely impact our revenues, results of operations, and financial condition. Historically, defense and intelligence agencies of the United States Government have accounted for almost all of our revenues. There are risks associated with programs that are subject to appropriation by Congress, which could be potential targets for reductions in funding to pay for other programs. Future reductions in United States Government spending on global security or future changes in the kind of products or services required by the United States Government agencies could limit demand for our products and services, which could result in failure to achieve anticipated revenues, resulting in a materially adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. In the event there are shifts in responsibilities and functions among the government agencies responsible for United States defense and intelligence, it could result in a reduction of orders for global security by the defense and intelligence agencies that have historically been our major customers. Our relationships with other Government agencies to which responsibilities and functions for our contracts have shifted may not be as strong as our relationships with current customer agencies. Accordingly, a reduction in contracts from our customer agencies may not be offset by contracts from other United States Government agencies. Even if other agencies increase spending for global security, we may not secure the same amount of work from these agencies. As a result, demand for our products and services could decline, resulting in a decrease in revenues, and could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition materially. If we are unable to comply with complex government regulations governing security and contracting practices, we could be disqualified as a supplier to the United States Government. As a supplier to United States Government defense and intelligence agencies, we must comply with numerous regulations, including those governing security and contracting practices. Failure to comply with these procurement regulations and practices could result in fines being imposed against us or our suspension for a period of time from eligibility for bidding on, or for award of, new government contracts. If we are disqualified as a supplier to government agencies, we will lose most, if not all, of our customers, revenues from sales of our products would decline significantly, and our ability to continue operations would be seriously jeopardized. Among the causes for disqualification are violations of various statutes, including those related to proc urement integrity, export control, United States Government security regulations, employment practices, protection of the environment, accuracy of records in the recording of costs, and foreign corruption. The government may investigate and make inquiries of our business practices and conduct audits of contract performance and cost accounting. Depending on the results of these audits and investigations, the government may make claims against us, and if it prevails, certain incurred costs would not be recoverable. We depend on revenues from a few significant contracts, and any loss, cancellation, reduction, or delay in these contracts could harm our business. From time to time, including recent periods, we have derived a material portion of our revenue from one or more individual contracts that could be terminated by the customer in full or in part at the customer’s discretion. We have in the past experienced a significant reduction of, and stop work order on, one of our largest contracts. We expect that in future periods we may again enter into individual contracts with significant revenue concentrations. In addition, the majority of our contracts are with a limited number of government agencies. If our individually large contracts were terminated or substantially reduced, we could fail to achieve expected revenues and net income. United States Government contracts are generally not fully funded at inception and funding may be terminated or reduced at any time. We act as a prime contractor or subcontractor for many different United States Government programs. Department of Defense and intelligence contracts typically involve long lead times for design and development and are subject to significant changes in contract scheduling. Programs can be partially funded initially, and additional funds may or may not be allocated. The termination or reduction of funding for a government program would result in a loss of anticipated future revenues attributable to that program. Our backlog as of October 31, 2006, was approximately $105 million and includes orders under awards that in some cases extend several years. The actual receipt of revenues on awards included in backlog may never occur or may change because a program schedule could change or the program could be canceled, or a contract could be reduced, modified, or terminated early. Our business depends upon our relationships with, and the performance of, our prime contractors. We expect to continue to depend on relationships with other contractors for a substantial portion of our revenues in the foreseeable future. Our business, prospects, financial condition, or operating results could be adversely affected if other contractors terminate or reduce their subcontracts or relationships with us, either because they choose to establish relationships with our competitors or because they choose to directly offer services that compete with our business. Our business also suffers if the prime contractor fails to win the contract, or if the Government terminates or reduces these other contractors’ programs or does not award them new or additional contracts. In addition, on those contracts for which we are not the prime contractor, the United States Government could terminate a prime contract under which we are subcontractor, regardless of the quality of our performance as a subcontractor. A prime contractor’s performance deficiencies could adversely affect our status as a subcontractor on the program, jeopardize our ability to collect award or incentive fees, cause customers to delay payments, and result in contract terminations. We depend on revenues from a few significant customers; the loss of any significant customer could have an adverse effect on our business. Our success will depend on our continued ability to develop and manage relationships with significant customers. The markets in which we sell our products are dominated by a relatively small number of governmental agencies and allies of the United States Government, thereby limiting the number of potential customers. Our dependence on large orders from a relatively small number of customers makes our relationship with each customer critical to our business. We cannot be sure that we will be able to retain our largest customers, that we will be able to attract additional customers, or that our customers will continue to buy our products and services in the same amounts as in prior years. The loss of one or more of our largest customers, any reduction or delay in sales to these customers, our i nability to successfully develop relationships with additional customers, or future price concessions that we may have to make could significantly harm our business. Continued competition in ISR may lead to a reduction in our revenues and market share. The global security market is highly competitive and we expect that competition will continue to increase in the future. Our current competitors have significantly greater technical, manufacturing, financial, and marketing resources than we do. We expect that more companies will enter the market for global security, possibly resulting in pricing pressures on our products and services. We may not be able to compete successfully against either current or future competitors. Increased competition could result in reduced revenue, lower margins, or loss of market share, any of which could significantly harm our business. Our competitors may introduce improved products with lower prices, and we would have to do the same to remain competitive. Unexpected increases in the cost to develop or manufacture our products under fixed-price contracts may cause us to experience unreimbursed cost overruns resulting in reduced profit margins or increased loss provisions. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from fixed-price contracts. Under fixed-price contracts, unexpected increases in the cost to develop or manufacture a product, whether due to inaccurate estimates in the bidding process, unanticipated increases in materials costs, unfavorable indirect rate variances, inefficiencies, or other factors, are borne by us. We have experienced cost overruns in the past that have resulted in losses on certain contracts, and may experience additional cost overruns in the future. Such cost overruns would increase our operating expenses, reduce our net income and earnings per share, and could have a material, adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial con dition. Fixed price contracts use percentage-of-completion accounting to determine profit margins. Under generally accepted accounting principles unexpected cost over-runs can change the percentage completion estimates and result in reduced profit margins and the reversal of previously recognized profits in addition to reducing future period profits. Although we believe that our profit margins are fairly stated and that adequate provisions for losses for our fixed-price contracts are recorded in our financial statements as required under accounting principles generally accepted within the United States, there can be no assurance that our contract profit margins will not decrease or our loss provision will not increase in the future. Unexpected contract terminations could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. Almost all of our contracts contain termination clauses that permit contract termination upon our default or for the convenience of the other contracting party. In either case, termination could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition; however, we received no such notifications in fiscal years 2006 or 2005. Our future revenues are inherently unpredictable, our operating results are likely to fluctuate from period to period, and if we fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price could decline significantly. Our quarterly and annual operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate significantly in the future due to a variety of factors, some of which are outside our control. Accordingly, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. Some of the factors that could cause our quarterly or annual operating results to fluctuate include conditions inherent in government contracting and our business such as the timing of cost and expense recognition for contracts, the United States Government contracting and budget cycles, and contract closeouts. Because we base our operating expenses on anticipated revenue trends and a high percentage of our expenses are fixed in the short term, any delay in generating or recognizing forecasted revenues could significantly harm our business. Fluctuations in quarterly results, competition, or announcements of extraordinary events such as acquisitions or litigation may cause earnings to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In this event, the trading price of our common stock could significantly decline. In addition, there can be no assurance that an active trading market will be sustained for our common stock. The stock market in recent years has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices of many technology companies. These fluctuations, as well as general economic and market conditions, may adversely affect the future market price of our common stock. Our market is subject to rapid technological change, and to compete effectively, we must continually introduce new signal processing solutions that achieve market acceptance. The market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology, frequent new product introductions, changes in customer requirements, and evolving industry standards. We believe that we have been successful to date in identifying certain global security needs early, investing in research and development to meet these needs, and delivering products before our competitors. We believe that our future success will depend upon continued development and timely introduction of products capable of satisfying emerging global security needs. However, we expect that new requirements will continue to emerge. Our future performance will depend on the successful development, introduction, and market acceptance of new and enhanced products that address these new requirements. The introduction of new and enhanced products may cause our customers to defer or cancel orders for existing products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to develop and market new products successfully in the future or respond effectively to new requirements, or that new products introduced by others will not render our products or technologies noncompetitive or obsolete. We also may not be able to develop the underlying core technologies necessary to create new products and enhancements or to license these technologies from third parties. Product development delays may result from numerous factors, including: Changing product specifications and customer requirements Difficulties in hiring and retaining necessary technical personnel Difficulties in reallocating engineering resources and overcoming resource limitations Difficulties with contract manufacturers Changing market or competitive product requirements Unanticipated engineering complexities The development of new, technologically advanced products is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation and highly skilled engineering and development personnel, as well as the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. We cannot ensure that we will be able to identify, develop, manufacture, market, or support new or enhanced products successfully, or on a timely basis, if at all. Further, we cannot ensure that our new products will gain market acceptance or that we will be able to respond effectively to product announcements by competitors, technological changes, or emerging industry standards. Any failure to respond to technological change would significantly harm our business. Our results of operations could be negatively impacted if we are required to write off inventory deemed not saleable or usable. Some of our products or raw materials may become obsolete or unusable while in inventory. This could be due to changing customer specifications, decreases in demand for existing products, or changes in government spending on signal intelligence. Work in process deemed not saleable is written off to contract costs in our statement of operations, while unusable raw materials are written off to general and administrative expenses. We may lose sales if our suppliers fail to meet our needs. Although we procure most of our parts and components from multiple sources or believe that these components are readily available from numerous sources, certain components are available only from sole sources or from a limited number of sources. While we believe that substitute components or assemblies could be obtained, use of substitutes would require development of new suppliers or would require us to re-engineer our products, or both, which could delay shipment of our products and could have a materially adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Our headquarters and most of our operations are located in California where natural disasters may occur, resulting in disruption to our business. Our corporate headquarters, including most of our research and development operations and production facilities, are located in the Silicon Valley area of Northern California, a region known for being vulnerable to natural disasters and other risks, such as earthquakes, fires, and floods, which at times have disrupted the local economy and posed physical risks to our property. A significant earthquake could materially affect operating results. We are not insured for most losses and business interruptions of this kind, and do not presently have redundant, multiple site capacity in the event of a natural disaster. In the event of such disaster, our business would suffer. Delays in the receipt of contracts could negatively impact our business. During our history, the receipt of certain final contracts has periodically been delayed to periods later than originally expected. Delays in the receipt of such orders could result in revenues falling short of estimates. On some of these contracts, we will make expenditures in advance of receipt of the final contract in anticipation of meeting the expected timetables, and will from time to time hire personnel in anticipation of receipt of the contract. If the contract is delayed, these costs are not covered. In addition, gross margins and net income will decrease if we elect to hold our cost structure in place while awaiting the award of delayed contracts. Our failure to protect our intellectual property may significantly harm our business. Our success and ability to compete is dependent in part on our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality agreements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We license certain of our proprietary technology to customers, and we rely largely on provisions of our licensing agreements to protect our intellectual property rights in this technology. To date, we have relied primarily on proprietary processes and know-how to protect our intellectual property. Although we have filed applications for several patents, four of which we currently hold, we cannot ensure that any patents will be issued as a result of pending patent applications or that our issued patents will be upheld. Any infringement of our proprietary rights could result in significant litiga tion costs, and any failure to adequately protect our proprietary rights could result in our competitors offering similar products, potentially resulting in loss of a competitive advantage and decreased revenues. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, existing patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret laws afford only limited protection. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Attempts may be made to copy or reverse engineer aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Accordingly, we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our technology or deter others from developing similar technology. Furthermore, policing the unauthorized use of our products is difficult. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. This litigation co uld result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, and could significantly harm our business. Claims that we infringe third-party intellectual property rights could result in significant expenses or restrictions on our ability to sell our products. It is possible that from time to time, other parties may assert patent, copyright, trademark, and other intellectual property rights to technologies and in various jurisdictions that are important to our business. Any claims asserting that our products infringe or may infringe proprietary rights of third parties, if determined adverse to us, could significantly harm our business. Any claims, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, cause product shipment delays, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, any of which could significantly harm our business. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. In addition, our agreem ents with our customers typically require us to indemnify our customers from any expense or liability resulting from claimed infringement of third-party intellectual property rights. In the event a claim against us was successful and we could not obtain a license to the relevant technology on acceptable terms, license a substitute technology, or redesign our products to avoid infringement, our business would be significantly harmed. Continued compliance with new regulatory and accounting requirements will be challenging and may cause our general and administrative expenses to increase and impact our future financial position and results of operations. As a result of compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as changes to listing standards adopted by the Nasdaq Stock Market, and the attestation and accounting changes required by the SEC, we are required to implement additional internal controls, to improve our existing internal controls, and to comprehensively document and test our internal controls. Although we successfully met our compliance with internal control evaluation and attestation at the end of fiscal year 2006, we continue to remain subject to these requirements, and as a result, expect to continue to obtain outside legal, accounting, and advisory services, all of which may add to our general and administrative costs. In addition, c hanges in the accounting rules, including legislative and other requirements to account for employee stock options as a compensation expense among others, could materially increase the expenses that we report under generally accepted accounting principles, which may adversely affect our operating results. Changes in stock option accounting rules have adversely impacted our operating results prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. We have historically used broad-based employee stock option programs to hire, incentivize, and retain our workforce in a competitive marketplace. In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS 123R, Share-Based Payment, which requires all companies to measure compensation cost for all share-based payments, including employee stock options, at fair value. These rules became applicable to us with the quarter ended January 28, 2006, and we have adopted Statement 123R beginning with the first quarter of our 2006 fiscal year, and implemented the new standard on a prospective basis. As a result of the adoption of SFAS 123R, we have incurred approximately $4,283,000 in stock compensation expense. We expect to continue to incur compensation expense in the future. Please refer to “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, Stock-Based Compensation.” Any increased review of our financial disclosure, including any future restatement of earnings, could increase litigation risks and adversely impact our stock price. A number of recent financial reporting issues and practices have recently received enormous public scrutiny, including practices concerning the accounting for employee stock option grant practices. If we are required to restate our financial statements as a result of a determination that we had incorrectly applied generally accepted accounting principles, that restatement could adversely affect our historic results, and the trading price of our securities. The recent scrutiny regarding financial reporting may also result in an increase in litigation involving companies with publicly traded securities, such as us. There can be no assurance that any such litigation against us would not materially adversely affect our business or the trading price of our securities. We face litigation risks as a result of our stock option review and restatement of our financial statements. Our historical stock option practices and the restatement of our prior financial statements have exposed us to greater risks associated with litigation, including the risk that derivative actions could be filed against us or certain current and former directors and officers based on allegations relating to our historical stock option practices. Litigation may be time consuming, expensive and distracting for management from the conduct of our business. The adverse resolution of any lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure that any future litigation relating to our historical stock option practices will result in the same conclusions reached by us. Furthermore, if we are subject to adverse findings in any of these matters, we could be requi red to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed upon us which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. We may in the future be subject to regulatory proceedings or actions arising in relation to our historical stock option practices and the restatement of our prior period financial statements. Any potential regulatory proceeding or action may be time consuming, expensive and distracting for management from the conduct of our business. The adverse resolution of any potential regulatory proceeding or action could adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. We cannot assure that any future regulatory action relating to our historical stock option practices, will result in the same conclusions reached by us. Furthermore, if we are subject to adverse findings in any of these matters, we could be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed upon us, including criminal penalties, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments None. 