ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS Risks Related to the Company Generally If we are unable to implement the plans outlined in our September 2006 strategic review, we may not realize the anticipated financial improvements. In September 2006, we completed a strategic review which resulted in detailed plans to implement expense management initiatives, along with related incremental revenue opportunities. The implementation period for these plans is expected to cover eight quarters. These plans, when fully implemented, are expected to result in approximately $17.5 million of additional operating income on an annual basis. If we are unable to complete some, or all, of the strategic review detailed plans, we may not realize the additional operating income expected as a result of their implementation. If the Company is unable to comply with the terms of its Loan & Security Agreement with CitiCapital Commercial Corporation dated October 10, 2006, the Company may not have sufficient cash to meet its operating and capital requirement needs. On October 10, 2006, the Company entered into a three year Loan and Security Agreement with CitiCapital Commercial Corporation. The agreement requires the Company to adhere to certain financial covenants, which are fully discussed in Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements contained in this annual report on Form 10-K. The amount of available borrowings under this facility is limited to 90% of eligible receivables, plus 65% of the fair market value of the Company’s headquarters, not to exceed $25 million in aggregate. The agreement contains one financial covenant whereby the Company must maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio of 1:1, if the available borrowing base, less amounts outstanding under the credit facility, is less than $10 million. The borrowing base at December 31, 2006 was $19.2 million. If the Company fails to comply with this financial covenant, the Company’s ability to borrow under this facility could be limited and have a negative effect on the Company’s ability to finance its operations. If we cannot maintain and upgrade our information technology platform so that our customers are able to readily access critical data related to their underwriting decisions or processing of claims, the competitiveness of our businesses will suffer. In each of our businesses, the speed with which we make information available to our customers is critical. As a result, we are dependent on our information technology platform and our ability to store, retrieve, process, manage and enable timely customer access to the health-related and other data we gather on behalf of our customers. Disruption of the operation of our IT systems for any extended period of time, loss of stored data, programming errors or other system failures could cause customers to turn elsewhere to address their service needs. In addition, we must continue to enhance our IT systems to keep pace with our competitors’ service and product enhancements. Acquisitions, alliances or other investments present many risks, and we may not realize the anticipated financial and strategic goals of any of our acquisitions or other investments. As part of our business strategy, we have pursued acquisitions and other strategic investments that will complement our existing services and leverage our existing capabilities. There is no guarantee that these activities will be profitable, or that we will continue to offset the decline in operating results of our Portamedic business through these types of activities. Any such acquisition or other investment involves a number of risks, including: · we may find that the acquired company or assets do not further our business strategy, or that we overpaid for the company or assets, or that economic conditions have changed, all of which may result in a future impairment charge; · we may have difficulty integrating the operations (including IT systems) and personnel of an acquired business and may have difficulty retaining its customers and/or key personnel; 12 · our ongoing business and management’s attention may be disrupted or diverted by transition or integration issues and the complexity of managing diverse locations; and · we may have difficulty maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies across locations. An ill-advised acquisition, business alliance or other investment could hurt our business, results of operations and financial condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a significant acquisition or multiple acquisitions in a short period of time. From time to time, we may enter into negotiations for acquisitions or other investments that are not ultimately consummated. Such negotiations could result in significant diversion of management’s time from our business as well as significant out-of-pocket costs. The consideration that we pay in connection with an acquisition or other investment could affect our financial condition. If we were to proceed with one or more significant acquisitions or other investments in which the consideration included cash, we could be required to use a substantial portion of our available cash to consummate such acquisitions. To the extent we issue shares of stock or other rights to purchase stock, including options or other rights, our then-existing shareholders may experience dilution in their share ownership in our company and their earnings per share may decrease. In addition, acquisitions or other investments may result in the incurrence of debt, large one-time write-offs and restructuring charges. They may also result in goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject to impairment tests, which could result in future impairment charges. Any of these factors may decrease our operating results and weaken our financial condition. Risks Related to Our Health Information Division We expect that the market for our life insurance risk assessment services will continue to contract. Each of our paramedical examination, tele-underwriting, attending physician statement (APS) retrieval, lab specimen testing and outsourced underwriting businesses is directly influenced by the level of life insurance application activity in the United States and in the United Kingdom. Based on available data, life insurance application activity in North America has declined in each of the last four years. The data are consistent with the fundamental changes that reportedly have been occurring within the life insurance industry over a number of years, changes that have resulted in the slow decline of the market for life insurance. We do not foresee a change in this trend. Our paramedical examination, lab specimen testing and APS retrieval businesses are also affected by decisions of life insurance carriers as to the policy amount thresholds, and the age of applicants and other criteria for which life insurance carriers require such services. In general, a raising of these thresholds and other criteria has a negative effect on the demand for our services. We may experience unintended negative consequences as a result of the elimination of geographic overlaps among some of our Portamedic branch offices. During 2006 and continuing into 2007, we will eliminate the geographic overlap that exists among some of our branch offices. The restructuring of Portamedic’s branch structure is motivated by the objective of lowering the division’s operating costs and improving efficiencies. However, the elimination of certain offices could have unintended negative consequences, including a loss of locally generated business and/or loss of employees. Further, we may not realize the anticipated levels of cost improvements, greater efficiencies and improved synergies from this restructuring. 13 Improper actions by our paramedical examiners or our physician practitioners could cause us to lose business and result in claims against us or our incurring expenses to indemnify our life insurance carrier customers. In the first quarter of 2006, a life insurance company client informed us that, after investigation, the client determined that it issued certain life insurance policies that were procured by fraudulent means employed by insurance applicants, the client’s agents, the Company’s sub-contracted examiners and others. As of the date of filing this Form 10-K, no claim has been asserted against the Company by the client, nor has the client produced any evidence pertaining to the matter. The service agreement between the Company and the client contains certain indemnification provisions which may be applicable. While the Company believes it is probable that the client will assert a claim against the Company for partial indemnification, it also believes that the Company has meritorious defenses to any such claim. However, the risk exists in this situation (and in other instances where allegations of wrongdoing are made regarding our paramedical examiners or physician practitioners) that the client relationship may be damaged, such that we experience a drop-off in the volume of business from the client or the loss of the client’s business. We have experienced downward pricing pressure from our life insurance carrier customers, which has hurt our operating margins and otherwise adversely affected our operating results. For the past several years, we have experienced downward pricing pressure from our life insurance carrier customers. We attribute this pressure to the carriers’ efforts to address cost items in a more rigorous manner in an attempt to maintain their profitability and level of return to their investors and other stakeholders. With price having become the primary basis of competition in the paramedical examination business, we have experienced declines in our average revenue per exam. This has been a significant factor in the decline in revenues derived by our core paramedical examination business in each of the last three years, and the related declines in operating margins and cash flow from operating activities. Although the Company recently instituted increased pricing for certain customers in response to improved levels of service, price increases may not be widely accepted by our customers and may not be sufficient to reverse past pricing declines. Our Health Information Division’s ten largest customers represented approximately 39% of division revenues in 2006. The loss of a significant volume of business from any of these customers could be expected to result in a material reduction in our revenues and negatively affect our cash flows from operating activities. In 2006, our Health Information Division’s top 10 customers represented, in the aggregate, approximately 39% of the division’s revenues (excluding UK volume). The loss of a significant volume of business from any of these customers could be expected to result in a material reduction in our revenues and negatively affect our cash flows from operating activities. Heritage Labs’ failure to provide accurate laboratory test results may result in claims against us. Our Heritage Labs subsidiary processes the blood, urine and other specimens obtained in connection with a portion of our paramedical examinations, as well as specimens provided by third-party health information service providers. Our insurance company clients and these third-party health information service providers rely on the accuracy of the test results and other data in connection with their insurance underwriting, treatment and other decisions. In addition, federal and state laws regulate the disclosure of specimen test results and other nonpublic medical-related personal information. If Heritage Labs does not provide accurate test results or does not protect the confidentiality of such results in accordance with applicable laws, we could face significant liability. 14 Our classification of most of our paramedical examiners outside of the States of California, Montana and Oregon as independent contractors, rather than employees, exposes us to possible litigation and legal liability. We classify most of our paramedical examiners outside the States of California, Montana and Oregon as independent contractors, making such examiners personally responsible for their employment taxes and workers’ compensation. In the past, some state agencies have claimed that we improperly classified our examiners as independent contractors, rather than employees, for purposes of state unemployment tax laws and that we were, therefore, liable for arrears of taxes or for penalties for failure to comply with these laws. Should any jurisdictions in which we conduct operations determine that our paramedical examiners are employees, we may be exposed to liability, as well as increased operating costs. Risks Related to Our Claims Evaluation Division There are signs that the outsourced medical claims management market in the United States may be contracting, which may limit the potential growth of our Claims Evaluation Division’s business. Our management perceives that the outsourced medical claims management market in the United States, including the market for the Claims Evaluation Division’s claims evaluation services, may be contracting. There are a number of factors that may be contributing to the trend including the decrease in manufacturing employment levels in the United States and the associated decline in the rates of workplace injuries and, in turn, workers’ compensation claims, the reported decline in the number of people injured in automobile accidents in the United States, and changes in state laws and regulations that, in general encourage the use of managed care techniques in handling workers’ compensation and automobile-related personal injury insurance claims. Our Claims Evaluation Division’s business is being affected by increased customer procurement demands, driven primarily by heightened federal laws and regulations, that are increasing operating costs. Our Claims Evaluation division’s business is being affected by increased customer procurement demands. These demands are being primarily driven by heightened compliance and security standards being imposed at the federal and state levels. Compliance with these demands entails higher operating costs, which has contributed to reduced margins and profitability. Our Claims Evaluation Division has a significant degree of customer concentration, such that the loss of any one of its larger customers would have a material effect on its operating results. Our Claims Evaluation Division’s 5 largest clients accounted for 63% of the division’s revenues in 2006. The loss of any of these customers would likely result in a reduction in the Claims Evaluation Division’s revenues and profitability, and that reduction may be material. The nature of the claims evaluation services we provide exposes us to possible litigation and liability. Through our network of physician practitioners, our Claims Evaluation Division provides assessments of the appropriateness of healthcare providers’ medical treatment plans. The nature of this work is such that we could be exposed to claims for adverse medical consequences. The Claims Evaluation Division does not grant or deny claims for payment of benefits and, to date, has not been made a defendant in any litigation relating to any such decision. However, this does not preclude future exposure to claims that may arise or result from the decisions of our customers. We maintain professional liability insurance and such other coverage as we believe appropriate, but such insurance may prove insufficient. 15 Our Claims Evaluation Division could be negatively affected by changes in what is a fragmented, but highly competitive market. The market for claims evaluation services market is fragmented, but competitive. We compete with many smaller vendors who generally provide such services on a local level, particularly companies with established relationships with one or more local insurance company claims adjusters. We also compete with larger companies that offer a broader selection of complementary services. Changes in the competitive landscape, including the performance by our property and casualty carrier customers of a greater degree of claims evaluation services in-house, could negatively affect our business. If any of the members of our physician panel were to be found to lack proper credentials or be determined to be less than “independent”, the damage to our reputation and business could be considerable. The nature of the Claims Evaluation Division’s business is such that the proper credentialing and “independence” of each member of the division’s panel of physicians that perform IMEs has been, and remains, of paramount importance. Even though our credentialing process is accredited by URAC, there remains an exposure to liability resulting from improper conduct during an examination encounter even with the most rigorous of credentialing processes. ITEM 1B Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. ITEM 