ITEM 1A Risk Factors You should carefully consider all the information included in this annual report, particularly the following risk factors, before deciding to invest in our shares of common stock. The risk factors set forth below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks not presently known to or understood by us may also negatively affect our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. Customer concerns about our financial health may result in the loss of customers or a portion of their business, or cause prospective customers not to engage us. Customer concerns about our financial health, stemming from the decline in our operating results over the past several years and the associated drop in our stock price, may result in the loss of customers or a portion of their business. Concerns about our financial health may also prompt prospective customers not to engage us or make it more challenging for us to compete for their business. Limited or negative cash flow from operations in 2009 may limit our ability to make the desired level of investment in our businesses. While we do not believe we are facing any immediate or near-term liquidity crisis, we experienced a revenue decline in 2008 and anticipate that this will continue in 2009 due to the downturn in the economy and its negative impact on our customers. We were able to lower our cost of operations as a percentage of revenues and reduced our selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expense in 2008. However, if we continue to experience the rates of decline in our consolidated revenues that we have experienced for the past several years, it will become increasingly difficult to generate cash from operations and invest in our businesses at optimal levels. Our liquidity may be adversely affected by the terms of our Loan and Security Agreement. If we experience negative cash flows from operations, we may need to borrow under our Loan and Security Agreement. We have an available borrowing base of $15.0 million under this facility as of March 9, 2009. The Loan and Security Agreement contains a financial covenant that requires us to maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio (as defined in the Loan and Security Agreement), on a trailing 12-month basis, of no less than 1.1 to 1.0 as of January 31, 2010 and as of the end of each of our fiscal quarters thereafter. As of December 31, 2008, our fixed charge coverage ratio measured on a trailing twelve month period was 0.6 to 1.0. As such, we would fail this financial covenant and therefore we would be prohibited from further borrowings under our Loan and Security Agreement after January 31, 2010. It is possible that, if we continue to experience losses from operations, we would not be able to borrow under our Loan and Security Agreement, and our liquidity would be adversely affected. Future claims arising from the sale of two business units (Discontinued Operations) could negatively impact our results of operations. We sold our Medicals Direct business in 2007 and our Claims Evaluation business in 2008. In regard to these sales, we retained certain potential liabilities pertaining to periods prior to the sale of each unit. For example, we have recorded a liability of approximately $1.4 million as of December 31, 2008 for certain potential tax exposures related to the MDG business. In addition, we have recorded a liability of $0.3 million as of December 31, 2008 for a potential liability on a long-term lease for the CED business. If additional claims are identified related to our two discontinued operations (MDG and CED) in the future, this may result in additional cost and cash payments by us which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. 14 The lack of coverage of our stock by the financial analyst community may reduce the volume of trading in shares of our common stock and could negatively affect our stock price. As our stock price has dropped, the financial analysts who followed our stock dropped their coverage. The lack of analyst coverage may lead to a reduced volume of trading in shares of our common stock. A concern about the liquidity of the market for our shares could negatively affect our stock price. We continue to experience declines in Portamedic unit volumes. We have experienced period-over-period declines in Portamedic unit volumes for the past several years, with the rate of decline exceeding the rate of overall market contraction, as reflected by the MIB Life Index data. The decline in unit volumes has often exceeded our budgeted forecasts. In February 2008, our Board appointed Roy H. Bubbs as President and Chief Executive Officer in view of his extensive background in the life insurance industry and track record of success in sales-related functions. Mr. Bubbs has taken a number of steps to strengthen our field sales personnel, streamline our sales tracking systems, improve sales training, and focus sales incentives on increases in paramedical exams completed (i.e., unit goals). However, we cannot be sure that these initiatives will prove sufficient to stop the decline in Portamedic unit volumes. In fact, our continuing focus on profitable revenue may lead us to terminate certain accounts when our contractual obligations expire, resulting in an acceleration of the rate of decline in Portamedic unit volumes. In a market where price has increasingly become the sole or principal basis of competition, our Portamedic branch office network may put us in a position of being at a competitive disadvantage. Through much of its history, our Portamedic business has benefited from our branch office network, which we believe to be the most extensive in our industry. Our branch office personnel are critical to building and nurturing the relationships with the insurance agents and brokers in the surrounding geographic area, from whom we receive a significant volume of our paramedical exam orders. The importance of these relationships was reinforced for us in 2007 when we closed a limited number of our branch offices and subsequently experienced a decline in unit volumes from the insurance agents and brokers in the areas surrounding these branch offices. Prior to 2007, we experienced downward pricing pressure from our life insurance carrier customers. We attribute this pressure to their efforts to address cost items in a more rigorous manner in an attempt to maintain their profitability and level of return to their investors and other stakeholders. In 2007 and 2008, we had some success in increasing our price levels to some extent, largely as a result of making improvements in our levels of service. The price increases contributed to an increase in our average revenue per paramedical exam and improved operating margins. Nonetheless, pricing represents the primary basis of competition for the business of certain insurance companies. With our Portamedic branch office network, a higher proportion of our costs are fixed costs compared with our competitors who do not operate such a network. Our Health & Wellness business would be adversely affected if health and wellness interventional programs are determined not to have a sufficient return on investment. Based on published information from industry analysts, no standard methodology exists yet for measuring whether disease management and/or wellness programs produce cost savings and, if so, how much. If a methodology is established and health insurance companies, employers and other payers then determine that health and wellness interventional programs do not provide the anticipated return on investment, this may adversely affect the health management industry. This, in turn, could adversely affect our Health & Wellness business. 15 Each of our business units derives a significant percentage of its revenues from a limited number of customers, such that a loss of some or all of the business of one or more customers over a short period of time could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Each of our business units, including our core Portamedic business, derives a significant percentage of its revenues from a limited number of customers. Losing some or all of the business of one or more of these customers can result in a significant reduction in the revenues of the applicable business unit. For example, in 2007, Heritage Labs was unsuccessful in its bid to retain the business of its largest customer, from which it derived roughly $4 million in revenues annually, representing over 20% of its revenues in 2007. In 2006, our Underwriting Solutions business was advised by its largest customer that the customer intended to pursue a multi-vendor policy for fulfillment of its underwriting needs. In such cases, we face significant challenges in the short term in replacing the lost revenues. Further, the loss of business from key customers can negatively affect our cash flows from operations. A number of circumstances could prompt our loss of one or more key customers or a substantial portion of its or their business. For example, many organizations in the insurance industry have consolidated; if one of our customers were to be acquired by or merged into another company for whom we do not provide services, we could lose the acquired company’s business. Additionally, we could lose one or more significant customers due to competitive pricing pressures or other reasons. Continued weakness in the economy in general, or the financial health of the life insurance industry in particular, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We derive a significant percentage of our revenues from customers in the life insurance industry. If the condition of the U.S. economy continues to weaken, demand for life insurance products may decline more steeply, generating less business for our Company. If some of our life insurance company customers fail or curtail operations as a result of economic conditions in the life insurance industry, it would also generate less business for our Company. Either event would negatively affect our cash flows from operations. The reductions in our cost structure and capital expenditures that we plan may not succeed in offsetting the decline in revenues we are experiencing. To offset the declines in revenues we have experienced, and expect to experience in 2009, we have taken actions to decrease our cost structure and reduce the level of capital expenditures. If we are unable to implement these actions as quickly or completely as we plan, our cash flows from operations would be negatively affected. If we cannot maintain and upgrade our information technology platform so that we can meet critical customer requirements, the competitiveness of our businesses will suffer. In each of our businesses, the speed with which we make information available to our customers is critical. As a result, we are dependent on our information technology platforms and our ability to store, retrieve, process, manage and enable timely customer access to the health-related and other data we gather on behalf of our customers. Disruption of the operation of our IT systems for any extended period of time, loss of stored data, programming errors or other system failures could cause customers to turn elsewhere to address their service needs. In addition, we must continue to enhance our IT systems – potentially at substantial cost – to keep pace with our competitors’ service and product enhancements. In December 2008, the Company decided to begin developing a new Portamedic/Infolink customer service order tracking system. In utilizing our current IT system, we license the system software and, as such, have difficulties in getting improvements or enhancements to the software and also find that it requires significant cash outlay. If we are not able to identify and acquire new technology resources to develop and support this new order tracking system, the competitiveness of our business could suffer. 16 Allegations of improper actions by our paramedical examiners or our physician practitioners could result in claims against us and/or our incurring expenses to indemnify our clients. Allegations of improper actions by our paramedical examiners or our physician practitioners could result in claims against us, require us to indemnify our clients for any harm they may suffer, or damage our relationships with important clients. For example, in the first quarter of 2006 a life insurance company client informed us that, after investigation, it had determined that it issued certain life insurance policies that were procured by fraudulent means employed by insurance applicants, the client’s agents, the Company’s sub-contracted examiners and others. We have since reached an agreement under which we paid $0.5 million to the client to resolve the matter. Allegations of our failure to provide accurate health-related risk assessment analyses of that data may result in claims against us. Our clients rely on the accuracy of the medical data we gather on their behalf – whether derived from a Portamedic paramedical exam, an Infolink tele-interview, a Health & Wellness screening, a Heritage Labs specimen test, or our Underwriting Solutions underwriting resources – in connection with their insurance underwriting, interventional programs, patient treatment and other decisions. As a result, we face exposure to claims that may arise or result from the decisions of our customers based on allegedly inaccurate data and/or faulty analysis of such data. We maintain professional liability insurance and such other coverage as we believe appropriate, but such insurance may prove insufficient. Regardless of insurance, any such claims could damage our relationships with important clients. Our operations and reputation may be harmed if we do not adequately secure information. Federal and state laws regulate the disclosure of specimen test results and other nonpublic medical-related personal information. If we do not protect the confidentiality of such results in accordance with applicable laws, we could face significant liability, and/or damage to our relationship with clients. Our classification of most of our paramedical examiners outside of the States of California, Montana and Oregon as independent contractors, rather than employees, exposes us to possible litigation and legal liability. In the past, some state agencies have claimed that we improperly classified our examiners as independent contractors for purposes of state unemployment or workers compensation tax laws and that we were therefore liable for taxes in arrears, or for penalties for failure to comply with such state agencies’ interpretations of the laws. In some states, our classification of examiners has been upheld and in others it has not. However, there are no assurances that we will not be subject to similar claims in other states in the future. Allegations of our failure to register certain securities could result in claims against us. The issuance in 2007 of an aggregate of 81,508 shares (at an aggregate purchase price of approximately $0.2 million) pursuant to the 2004 Employee Stock Purchase Plan occurred prior to the filing with the SEC of a registration statement in respect of those shares. As a result, the Company may have potential liability, to the purchasers of those shares, for rescission of the sale. Our operations could be adversely affected by the effects of a natural disaster or an act of terrorism. Our operations – in particular, that of Heritage Labs’ laboratory, would be adversely affected in the event of a natural disaster, such as a tornado or hurricane, or an act of terrorism. While Heritage Labs has a back-up lab facility available (also located in Kansas), and a disaster recovery plan, damage to its primary laboratory or to its available back-up lab facility could nonetheless disrupt its ability to provide its testing services, which could have a material adverse effect on its operations and business. 17 ITEM 1B Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. ITEM 