ITEM 1A Risk Factors You should carefully consider all the information included in this annual report, particularly the following risk factors, before deciding to invest in our shares of common stock. The risk factors set forth below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks not presently known to or understood by us may also negatively affect our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. Customer concerns about our financial health may result in the loss of customers or a portion of their business, or cause prospective customers not to engage us. Customer concerns about our financial health, stemming from the decline in our operating results over the past several years and the associated drop in our stock price, may result in the loss of customers or a portion of their business. Concerns about our financial health may also prompt prospective customers not to engage us or make it far more challenging for us to compete for their business. Our anticipated negative cash flow from operations in 2008 may limit our ability to make the desired level of investment in our businesses. While we do not believe we are facing any immediate or near-term liquidity crisis, we experienced negative cash flow from operations in 2007 and anticipate that this will continue in 2008. We were able to lower our cost of operations as a percentage of revenues and reduced our selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expense in 2007. However, if we continue to experience the rates of decline in our consolidated revenues that we have experienced for the past several years, it will become increasingly difficult to invest in our businesses at optimal levels. Our liquidity may be adversely affected by the terms of our Revolving Credit Facility. If we continue to experience negative cash flows from operations, we may need to borrow under our Revolving Credit Facility. Although we have an available borrowing base of $24.6 million under this facility as of December 31, 2007, there is only $14.6 million of borrowing capacity under the credit facility before a financial covenant goes into effect. The financial covenant requires us to maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio (as defined in the Loan and Security Agreement with respect to the credit facility), on a trailing 12-month basis, of no less than 1:1. It is possible that, if we continue to experience losses from operations, our borrowing capacity would be limited to $14.6 million and our liquidity adversely affected. The limited coverage of our stock by the financial analyst community may reduce the volume of trading in shares of our common stock and could negatively affect our stock price. As our stock price has dropped, the number of financial analysts who follow our stock has declined. The more limited analyst coverage may lead to a reduced volume of trading in shares of our common stock. A concern about the liquidity of the market for our shares could negatively affect our stock price. 15 We continue to experience declines in Portamedic unit volumes. We have experienced period-over-period declines in Portamedic unit volumes for the past several years, with the rate of decline exceeding the rate of overall market contraction, as reflected by the MIB Index data. The decline in unit volumes has often exceeded our budgeted forecasts, causing our management to conclude, among other things, that on a going-forward basis we need to be more circumspect in providing guidance as to anticipated results. In February 2008, our Board appointed Roy H. Bubbs as interim President and Chief Executive Officer in view of his extensive background in the life insurance industry and track record of success in sales-related functions. Mr. Bubbs intends to take a number of steps to strengthen our field sales personnel, streamline our sales tracking systems, improve sales training, and focus sales incentives on increases in paramedical exams completed (i.e., unit goals). However, we cannot be sure that these initiatives will prove sufficient to stop the decline in Portamedic unit volumes. In fact, our focus on profitable revenue may lead us to terminate certain accounts when our contractual obligations expire, resulting in an acceleration of the rate of decline in Portamedic unit volumes. In a market where price has increasingly become the sole or principal basis of competition, our Portamedic branch office network may put us in a position of being at a competitive disadvantage. Through much of its history, our Portamedic business has benefited from our branch office network, which we believe to be the most extensive in our industry. Our branch office personnel are critical to building and nurturing the relationships with the insurance agents and brokers in the surrounding geographic area, from whom we receive a significant volume of our paramedical exam orders. The importance of these relationships was reinforced for us in 2007 when we closed a limited number of our branch offices and subsequently experienced a decline in unit volumes from the insurance agents and brokers in the areas surrounding these branch offices. Prior to 2007, we experienced downward pricing pressure from our life insurance carrier customers. We attribute this pressure to their efforts to address cost items in a more rigorous manner in an attempt to maintain their profitability and level of return to their investors and other stakeholders. In 2007, we had some success in increasing our price levels to some extent, largely as a result of making improvements in our levels of service. The price increases contributed to an increase in our average revenue per paramedical exam and improved operating margins. Nonetheless, pricing represents the primary basis of competition for the business of certain insurance companies. With our Portamedic branch office network, a higher proportion of our costs are fixed costs compared with our contractor-based competitors. Our Health & Wellness business would be adversely affected if health and wellness interventional programs are determined not to have a sufficient return on investment. Based on published information from industry analysts, no standard methodology exists yet for measuring whether disease management and/or wellness programs produce cost savings and, if so, how much. If a methodology is established and health insurance companies, employers and other payers then determine that health and wellness interventional programs do not provide the anticipated return on investment, this may adversely affect the health management industry. This, in turn, could adversely affect our Health & Wellness business. 16 Our Underwriting Solutions business may not be able to benefit fully from the expected growth in the life settlements business if it is unable to obtain a life settlements license in the State of Florida. Our Underwriting Solutions business is in the process of seeking a life settlements license in the State of Florida, which it sees as being important to its growth in the life settlements market. Our status as a public company, with one or more shareholders holding in excess of 10% of our outstanding shares of common stock, is impeding the process of obtaining the license. No assurance can be provided that we will obtain the license. Our Claims Evaluation Division has experienced declines in the volume of cases referred to it from P&C insurers and other customers. Over the past several years, our Claims Evaluation Division has experienced declines in the volume of personal injury accident cases referred to it by its P&C insurance and other customers. Its volume of cases may be influenced by a number of factors, certain of which are entirely outside the CED’s control, including: changes in the degree to which P&C carriers outsource their claims evaluation service needs; changes in the overall level of workplace and automobile-related injury rates in the United States (which have been declining in recent years because of changes in the regulatory environment and other reasons); and changes in customers’ information technology systems and requirements. Our Claims Evaluation Division could be negatively affected by changes in what is a fragmented, but highly competitive market. The market for claims evaluation services is fragmented, but competitive. We compete with many smaller vendors who generally provide such services on a local level, particularly companies with established relationships with one or more local insurance company claims adjusters. We also compete with larger companies that offer a broader selection of complementary services. Changes in the competitive landscape, including the performance by our property and casualty insurance company customers of a greater degree of claims evaluation services in-house, could negatively affect our business. Each of our business units derive a significant percentage of its revenues from a limited number of customers, such that a loss of some or all of the business of one or more customers over a short period of time could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Each of our business units, including our core Portamedic business, derives a significant percentage of its revenues from a limited number of customers. Losing some or all of the business of one or more of these customers can result in a significant reduction in the revenues of the applicable business unit. For example, in 2007, Heritage Labs was unsuccessful in its bid to retain the business of its largest customer, from which it derived roughly $4 million in revenues annually, representing over 20% of its revenues in 2007. In 2006, our Underwriting Solutions business was advised by its largest customer that the customer intended to pursue a multi-vendor policy for fulfillment of its underwriting needs. In 2007, Hooper Evaluations’ largest customer similarly adopted a multi-supplier strategy. In such cases, we face significant challenges in the short term in replacing the lost revenues. Further, the loss of business from key customers can negatively affect our cash flows from operations. 17 A number of circumstances could prompt our loss of one or more key customers or a substantial portion of its or their business. For example, many organizations in the insurance industry have consolidated; if one of our customers were to be acquired or merged into another company for whom we do not provide services, we could lose the acquired company’s business. Additionally, we could lose one or more significant customers due to competitive pricing pressures or other reasons. If we cannot maintain and upgrade our information technology platform so that we can meet critical customer requirements, the competitiveness of our businesses will suffer. In each of our businesses, the speed with which we make information available to our customers is critical. As a result, we are dependent on our information technology platforms and our ability to store, retrieve, process, manage and enable timely customer access to the health-related and other data we gather on behalf of our customers. Disruption of the operation of our IT systems for any extended period of time, loss of stored data, programming errors or other system failures could cause customers to turn elsewhere to address their service needs. In addition, we must continue to enhance our IT systems – potentially at substantial cost – to keep pace with our competitors’ service and product enhancements. We may not be able to develop or acquire replacement resources or to identify and acquire new technology resources to support and grow our businesses. This is particularly an issue with our Portamedic branch office customer service order tracking system, a key tool in running the Portamedic business. We license the system software and, as such, may have difficulties in the future getting improvements or enhancements to the software or may find that doing so is an expensive proposition. Improper actions by our paramedical examiners or our physician practitioners could result in claims against us and/or our incurring expenses to indemnify our clients. Improper actions by our paramedical examiners or our physician practitioners could result in claims against us or require us to indemnify our clients for any harm they may suffer. For example, in the first quarter of 2006 a life insurance company client informed us that, after investigation, it had determined that it issued certain life insurance policies that were procured by fraudulent means employed by insurance applicants, the client’s agents, the Company’s sub-contracted examiners and others. We have since reached an agreement in principle with this client under which we will pay $500,000 to the client. In addition to the risk of actual or threatened litigation and the potential for incurring expenses stemming from such litigation, there is also a risk that the client relationship may be damaged, such that we experience a drop-off in the volume of business from the client or the complete loss of the client’s business. Our failure to provide accurate health-related risk assessment or claims evaluation data or analyses of that data may result in claims against us. The clients of each of our business units that make up or Health Information Division rely on the accuracy of the medical data we gather on their behalf – whether derived from a Portamedic paramedical exam, an Infolink tele-interview, a Health & Wellness screening, a Heritage Labs’ specimen test, or our Underwriting Solutions underwriting resources – in connection with their insurance underwriting, interventional programs, patient treatment and other decisions. As a result, we face exposure to claims that may arise or result from the decisions of our customers based on inaccurate data and/or faulty analysis of such data. We maintain professional liability insurance and such other coverage as we believe appropriate, but such insurance may prove insufficient. 18 Our operations and reputation may be harmed if we do not adequately secure information. Federal and state laws regulate the disclosure of specimen test results and other nonpublic medical-related personal information. If we do not protect the confidentiality of such results in accordance with applicable laws, we could face significant liability. Our classification of most of our paramedical examiners outside of the States of California, Montana and Oregon as independent contractors, rather than employees, exposes us to possible litigation and legal liability. We classify most of our paramedical examiners outside the States of California, Montana and Oregon as independent contractors, making such examiners personally responsible for their employment taxes and workers’ compensation. In the past, some state agencies have claimed that we improperly classified our examiners as independent contractors, rather than employees, for purposes of state unemployment tax laws and that we were, therefore, liable for arrears of taxes or for penalties for failure to comply with these laws. Should any jurisdictions in which we conduct operations determine that our paramedical examiners are employees, we may be exposed to liability, as well as increased operating costs. Our operations could be adversely affected by the effects of a natural disaster or an act of terrorism. Our operations – in particular, that of the Heritage Labs laboratory, would be adversely affected in the event of a natural disaster, such as a tornado or hurricane, or an act of terrorism. While Heritage Labs has a back-up lab facility and disaster recovery plans, damage to its primary laboratory could nonetheless disrupt its ability to provide its testing services, which could have a material adverse effect on its operations and business. ITEM 1B Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. ITEM 