Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K, the following are important factors which could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of us. A significant portion of our business depends upon non-recurring event clean-up projects over which we have no control. A significant portion of our disposal revenue is attributable to discrete Event Business which varies widely in size, duration and unit pricing. For the year ended December 31, 2011, approximately 39% of our treatment and disposal revenue was derived from Event Business projects. The one-time nature of Event Business necessarily creates variability in revenue and earnings. This variability is further influenced by service mix, general and industry-specific economic conditions, funding availability, changes in laws and regulations, government enforcement actions, public controversies, litigation, weather, property redevelopment plans and other factors. As a result of this variability, we can experience significant quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year volatility in revenue, gross profit, gross margin, operating income and net income. Also, while many large project opportunities are identifiable years in advance, both large and small project opportunities also routinely arise with little prior notice. This uncertainty, which is inherent to the hazardous and radioactive waste disposal industry, is factored into our budgeting and externally communicated business projections. Our projections combine historical experience with identified sales pipeline opportunities and planned initiatives for new or expanded service lines. A reduction in the number and size of new clean-up projects won to replace 16 Table of Contents completed work could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. The completion of, loss of or failure to renew one or more significant contracts could adversely affect our profitability. We provide disposal and transportation services to customers on discrete Event Business (non-recurring project based work) which varies widely in size, duration and unit pricing. Some of these multi-year projects can account for a significant portion of our revenue and profit. For example, in 2005 we entered into a four-year transportation and disposal contract with Honeywell to dispose of 1.3 million tons of waste at our Grand View, Idaho facility (known herein as the "Honeywell Jersey City" project). During this period revenue from the Honeywell Jersey City project and other smaller Honeywell projects comprised a significant portion of our total revenue. Revenue from Honeywell represented 38% of total revenue in 2009. Subsequent to the completion of the Honeywell Jersey City project we have been successful at replacing treatment and disposal revenue from this project through our expanded treatment and disposal capabilities, expanded permits, thermal recycling services, expanding services to waste brokers and the acquisition of Stablex. However, the replacement of 2011 Event Business revenue and earnings depends on multiple factors, many of which are outside of our control including, but not limited to, general and industry-specific economic conditions, capital in the commercial credit markets, general level of government funding on environmental matters, real estate development and other industrial investment opportunities. Our inability to replace the contribution from 2011 Event Business projects with new business could result in a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. We also have a multi-year contract with USACE, expiring in 2013. USACE accounted for approximately 7% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2011. This multi-year contract does not, however, guarantee future work or volumes. Reduced appropriations for the USACE and/or other government clean-up work, a reduction in project-specific task orders, and/or the loss of or failure to renew this or other large contracts and task orders combined with failure to replace their contribution with new projects could result in a material adverse affect on our business. Annual FUSRAP funding has remained generally constant ranging from $130.0 million to $140.0 million each fiscal year over the last several years but is at risk for future funding cuts. The 2012 federal fiscal budget proposed a reduction in FUSRAP funding to $109.0 million. In February 2012, President Obama released the proposed fiscal 2013 budget reflecting additional cuts to the FUSRAP funding to $104.0 million. While we believe that the USACE will contract for our services for the estimated duration of the FUSRAP through 2033 and potentially beyond, this cannot be assured. If we are unable to obtain regulatory approvals and contracts for construction of additional disposal space by the time our current disposal capacity is exhausted, our business would be adversely affected. Construction of new disposal capacity at our operating disposal facilities beyond currently permitted capacity requires state and provincial regulatory agency approvals. Administrative processes for such approval reviews vary. The State of Texas, which regulates our Robstown facility, provides for an adjudicatory hearing process administered by a hearing officer appointed by the State. While we have historically been successful in obtaining timely approvals for proposed disposal facility expansions including those involving contested proceedings, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining future expansion approvals in a timely manner or at all. If we are not successful in receiving these approvals, our disposal capacity could eventually be exhausted, preventing us from accepting additional waste at an affected facility. This would have a material adverse effect on our business. 17 Table of Contents If we are unable to renew our operating permits or lease agreements with regulatory bodies, our business would be adversely affected. Our facilities operate using permits and licenses issued by various regulatory bodies at various state, provincial and federal government levels. In addition, three of our facilities operate on land leased from government agencies. Failure to renew our permits and licenses necessary to operate our facilities or failure to renew or maintain compliance with our site lease agreements would have a material adverse effect on our business. While we have historically been successful in obtaining timely permit applications approval, maintaining compliance with our lease agreements and obtaining timely lease renewals, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in the future. Loss of key management or sales personnel could harm our business. We have an experienced management team and rely on the continued service of our senior managers to achieve our objectives. We also have a senior sales team with industry experience averaging over 15 years. Our objective is to retain our present management and sales teams and identify, hire, train, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel. The loss of any key management employee or sales personnel could adversely affect our business and results of operations. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations our business could be adversely affected. The changing regulatory framework governing our business creates significant risks. We could be held liable if our operations cause contamination of air, groundwater or soil or expose our employees or the public to contamination. Under current law, we may be held liable for damage caused by conditions that existed before we acquired the assets or operations involved. Also, we may be liable if we arrange for the transportation, disposal or treatment of hazardous substances that cause environmental contamination at facilities operated by others, or if a predecessor made such arrangements and we are a successor. Liability for environmental damage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Stringent regulations of federal, state or provincial governments have a substantial impact on our business. Local government controls also apply. Many complex laws, rules, orders and regulatory interpretations govern environmental protection, health, safety, noise, visual impact, odor, land use, zoning, transportation and related matters. Failure to obtain on a timely basis or comply with applicable federal, state, provincial and local governmental regulations, licenses, permits or approvals for our waste treatment and disposal facilities could prevent or restrict our ability to provide certain services, resulting in a potentially significant loss of revenue and earnings. Changes in environmental regulations may require us to make significant capital or other expenditures, or limit operations. Changes in laws or regulations or changes in the enforcement or interpretation of existing laws, regulations or permitted activities may require us to modify existing operating licenses or permits, or obtain additional approvals or limit operations. New governmental requirements that raise compliance standards or require changes in operating practices or technology may impose significant costs and/or limit operations. Our revenues are primarily generated as a result of requirements imposed on our customers under federal, state, and provincial laws and regulations to protect public health and the environment. If requirements to comply with laws and regulations governing management of PCB, hazardous or radioactive waste were relaxed or less vigorously enforced, demand for our services could materially decrease and our revenues and earnings could be significantly reduced. Our financial results could be adversely affected by foreign exchange fluctuations. We operate in both the United States and Canada, but report revenues, costs and earnings in U.S. dollars. Exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the Canadian dollar are likely to fluctuate from period to period. Because our financial results are reported in U.S. dollars, we are subject to the risk of 18 Table of Contents translation losses for reporting purposes. If we continue to expand our international operations, we will conduct more transactions in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. To the extent that foreign revenue and expense transactions are not denominated in the local currency, we are also subject to the risk of transaction losses. We have not entered into derivative instruments to offset the impact of foreign exchange fluctuations. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to obtain at a reasonable cost or under reasonable terms and conditions the necessary levels of insurance and financial assurances required for operations, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. We are required by law, license, permit and prudence to maintain various insurance instruments and financial assurances. We carry a broad range of insurance coverage that we believe are customary for a company of our size in our business. We obtain these coverages to mitigate risk of loss, allowing us to manage our self-insured exposure from potential claims. We are self-insured for employee health-care coverage. Stop-loss insurance is carried covering liability on claims in excess of $150,000 per individual or on an aggregate basis for the monthly population. Accrued costs related to the self-insured health care coverage were $212,000 and $136,000 at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. We also maintain a Pollution and Remediation Legal Liability Policy pursuant to RCRA regulations subject to a $250,000 self-insured retention. In addition, we are insured for consultant's environmental liability subject to a $100,000 self-insured retention. We are also insured for losses or damage to third party property or people subject to a $50,000 self-insured retention. If our insurers were unable to meet their obligations, or our own obligations for claims were more than expected, there could be a material adverse effect to our financial condition and results of operation. Through December 31, 2011, we have met our financial assurance requirements through a combination of insurance policies, commercial surety bonds and trust funds. Our insurance policies covering closure and post-closure activities expire in December 2013 for our U.S. operating facilities. We continue to use self-funded trust accounts for our post-closure obligations at our U.S. non-operating sites. We use commercial surety bonds for our Canadian operation that expire in November 2012. We currently have in place all financial assurance instruments necessary for our operations. While we expect to continue renewing these policies and surety bonds, if we were unable to obtain adequate closure, post-closure or environmental insurance, bonds or other instruments in the future, any partially or completely uninsured claim against us, if successful and of sufficient magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, continued access to casualty and pollution legal liability insurance with sufficient limits, at acceptable terms, is important to obtaining new business. Failure to maintain adequate financial assurance could also result in regulatory action including early closure of facilities. As of December 31, 2011, we have $4.1 million in funded trust agreements for post closure obligations at our non-operating properties. We have provided our insurance provider a $4.0 million letter of credit through our primary bank as collateral for our financial assurance insurance policies that have a limit of $44.0 million for closure and post-closure obligations at our U.S. operating facilities. We have $859,000 in commercial surety bonds dedicated for closure obligations at our Canadian operating facility. While we believe we will be able to maintain the requisite financial assurance policies at a reasonable cost, premium and collateral requirements may materially increase. Such increases could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A change or deterioration in labor relations could disrupt our business or increase costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company is a party to two collective bargaining agreements covering 109, or 28%, of our employees. On December 31, 2011, the agreement covering 98 of our employees at our Blainville, 19 Table of Contents Québec, Canada facility expired and is currently being renegotiated. In addition, the agreement covering 11 of our employees at our Richland facility is scheduled to expire in 2012. While we believe the Company will maintain good working relations with its employees on acceptable terms, there can be no assurance that we will be able to negotiate the terms of expired or expiring agreements in a manner acceptable to the Company. Therefore, potential work disruptions from labor disputes may disrupt our businesses and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Failure to perform under our contracts may adversely harm our business. Certain contracts require us to meet specified performance criteria. Our ability to meet these criteria requires that we expend significant resources. If we or our subcontractors are unable to perform as required, we could be subject to substantial monetary penalties and/or loss of the affected contracts which may adversely affect our business. Failure to realize the anticipated benefits and operational performance of acquired operations could lead to an impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets. We are required to test goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives at least annually to determine if impairment has occurred. The testing of goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment requires us to make significant estimates about future performance and cash flows, as well as other assumptions. These estimates can be affected by numerous factors, including potential changes in economic, industry or market conditions, changes in business operations, changes in competition or changes in our stock price and market capitalization. Changes in these factors, or changes in actual performance compared with estimates of our future performance, may affect the fair value of goodwill or other intangible assets, which may result in an impairment charge. As a result of the Stablex acquisition, we have goodwill of $21.2 million and net intangible assets of $39.2 million at December 31, 2011 that must be assessed at least annually for impairment. We cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of assets. Should the value of goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. Adverse economic conditions, government funding or competitive pressures affecting our customers could harm our business. We serve oil refineries, chemical production plants, steel mills, electric utilities, real estate developers, waste brokers/aggregators serving small manufacturers and other industrial customers that are, or may be, affected by changing economic conditions and competition. These customers may be significantly impacted by deterioration in the general economy and may curtail waste production and/or delay spending on plant maintenance, waste clean-up projects and other discretionary work. Spending by government agencies may also be reduced due to declining tax revenues that may result from a general deterioration in economic conditions or other federal or state fiscal policy. Factors that can impact general economic conditions and the level of spending by our customers include the general level of consumer and industrial spending, increases in fuel and energy costs, residential and commercial real estate and mortgage market conditions, labor and healthcare costs, access to credit, consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors affecting spending behavior. Market forces may also compel customers to cease or reduce operations, declare bankruptcy, liquidate or relocate to other countries, any of which could adversely affect our business. Our operations are significantly affected by the commencement and completion of large and small clean-up projects; potential seasonal fluctuations due to weather; budgetary decisions and cash flow limitations influencing the timing of customer spending for remedial activities; the timing of regulatory agency decisions and judicial proceedings; changes in government regulations and enforcement policies 20 Table of Contents and other factors that may delay or cause the cancellation of clean-up projects. We do not control such factors, which can cause our revenue and income to vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year. Our market is highly competitive. Failure to compete successfully could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face competition from companies with greater resources, service offerings we do not provide and lower pricing in certain instances. An increase in the number of commercial treatment or disposal facilities for hazardous or radioactive waste, significant expansion of existing competitor permitted capabilities or a decrease in the treatment or disposal fees charged by competitors could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Our business is also heavily affected by waste disposal fees imposed by government agencies. These fees, which vary from state to state and are periodically adjusted, may adversely impact the competitive environment in which we conduct our business. Our business requires the handling of dangerous substances. Improper handling of such substances could result in an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to unexpected occurrences related, or unrelated, to the routine handling of dangerous substances. A fire or other incident could impair one or more facilities from performing normal operations. This could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Improper handling of these substances could also violate laws and regulations resulting in fines and/or suspension of operations. We may not be able to obtain timely or cost effective transportation services which could adversely affect our profitability. Revenue at each of our facilities is subject to potential risks from disruptions in rail or truck transportation services relied upon to deliver waste to our facilities. Increases in fuel costs and unforeseen events such as labor disputes, public health pandemics, natural disasters and other acts of God, war or terror could prevent or delay shipments and reduce both volumes and revenue. Our rail transportation service agreements with our customers generally allow us to pass on fuel surcharges assessed by the railroads. This may decrease or eliminate our exposure to fuel cost increases. Transportation services may be limited by economic conditions, including increased demand for rail or trucking services, resulting in periods of slower service to the point that individual customer needs cannot be met. No assurance can be given that we can procure transportation services in a timely manner at competitive rates or pass through fuel cost increases in all cases. Such factors could also limit our ability to achieve revenue and earnings objectives. We are subject to risks associated with operating in a foreign country. On October 31, 2010, we acquired Stablex. Stablex is based in Québec, Canada and uses the Canadian dollar as its functional currency. Prior to this acquisition, we had very limited exposure to international risks. International operations are subject to risks that may have material adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations. The risks that our international operations are subject to include, among other things: •difficulties and costs relating to staffing and managing foreign operations; •foreign labor union relations; •fluctuations in the value of the Canadian dollar; •repatriation of cash from Stablex to the United States; 21 Table of Contents •regulatory requirements; •imposition of additional taxes on our foreign income; and •unexpected regulatory, economic and other public policy changes. The hazardous and radioactive waste industries in which we operate are subject to litigation risk. The handling of radioactive, PCBs and hazardous material subjects us to potential liability claims by employees, contractors, property owners, neighbors and others. There can be no assurance that our existing liability insurance is adequate to cover claims asserted against us or that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future. Adverse rulings in legal matters could also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our levels of outstanding debt and letters of credit could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to fulfill our obligations under our Credit Agreements. As of December 31, 2011, we had $40.6 million of borrowings and $4.0 million issued in letters of credit on our $95.0 million revolving line of credit agreement (the "Credit Agreement") with Wells Fargo National Association ("Wells Fargo"). This level of outstanding debt and letters of credit may: •adversely impact our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or to continue paying dividends to our stockholders; •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to the payment of interest on our debt and fees on our letters of credit, which reduces the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividends or other general corporate purposes; •subject us to the risk of increased sensitivity to interest rate increases based upon variable interest rates; •limit our ability to adjust to rapidly changing market conditions, reduce our ability to withstand competitive pressures and make us more vulnerable to a downturn in general economic conditions of our business than competitors with less debt. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt and letter of credit fee obligations, we may be required to refinance all or a portion of our existing debt and letter of credit facilities, or to obtain new or additional facilities. However, we may not be able to obtain such new or additional facilities on favorable terms or at all. Servicing our debt, including any revolving loans and capital leases, and paying our letter of credit fee obligations will require a significant amount of cash, and our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make scheduled payments of principal or interest with respect to borrowings under our Credit Agreement and to pay fee obligations under our letters of credit will depend on our ability to generate cash from future operations. Our ability to generate cash depends on, among other factors, the demand for our services, which is subject to general and industry-specific market conditions, changes in government environmental regulation, and financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. Our operations may not generate sufficient cash flow in an amount necessary to enable us to pay our debt and the fee obligations arising from our letters of credit, or to fund our other liquidity needs. 22 Table of Contents We may not be able or willing to pay future dividends. Our ability to pay dividends is subject to our future financial condition and certain conditions such as continued compliance with bank covenants contained in our Credit Agreement. Our Board of Directors must also approve any dividends at their sole discretion. Pursuant to our Credit Agreement, we may only declare and pay quarterly or annual dividends if on the date of declaration no event of default has occurred, no other event or condition that upon notice or continuation would constitute a default, and payment of the dividend will not result in a default. Unforeseen events or situations could cause non-compliance with these bank covenants, or cause the Board of Directors to discontinue or reduce the amount of any future dividend payment. We may not be able to effectively adopt or adapt to new technologies. We expect to continue implementing new technologies at our facilities to meet customer service demands and facilitate growth in our business. If we are unable to identify and implement new technologies in response to market conditions and customer requirements in a timely, cost effective manner, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. If we are unable to successfully complete the integration of future acquisitions into our business and achieve anticipated synergies in the expected time frame, our future results could be adversely affected. Acquisitions involve multiple risks. Our inability to successfully integrate the operations of an acquired business into our operations could have a material adverse effect on our business. These risks include but are not limited to: •changing market conditions; •increased competition; •labor relations and union contracts; •the need to spend substantial operational, financial and management resources integrating new businesses, technologies and processes and related difficulties integrating them into operations, personnel or systems; •retention of key personnel and customers; •impairments of goodwill and other intangible assets; and •environmental and other liabilities associated with past operations. Our financial condition and results of operations could be materially affected by changes in accounting standards. Accounting principles generally accepted in the Unites States of America ("accounting standards") and interpretations by various governing bodies, including the SEC, for many aspects of our business, such as accounting for asset retirement obligations, goodwill and intangible assets, income taxes and stock-based compensation, are complex and involve subjective judgments. Changes in these rules or their interpretation may significantly change or add significant volatility to our reported earnings without a comparable underlying change in cash flow from operations. As a result, changes in accounting standards could materially impact our financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 23 Table of Contents 