1A. Risk Factors. The company’s business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this annual report on Form 10-K and in the company’s other filings with the SEC, before making any investment decision with respect to the company’s securities. The risks and uncertainties described below may not be the only ones the company faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known by the company or that the company currently deems immaterial may also affect the company’s business. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occur or develop, the company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects could change. Changes in government and other third-party payor reimbursement levels and practices have negatively impacted and could continue to negatively impact the company’s revenues and profitability. The company’s products are sold through a network of medical equipment and home health care providers, extended care facilities, hospital and HMO-based stores, and other providers. Many of these providers (the company’s customers) are reimbursed for the products and services provided to their customers and patients by third-party payors, such as government programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, private insurance plans and managed care programs. Many of these programs set maximum reimbursement levels for some of the products sold by the company in the United States. If third-party payors deny coverage, make the reimbursement process or documentation requirements more uncertain or further reduce their current levels of reimbursement (i.e., beyond the reductions described below), or if the company’s costs of production increase faster than increases in reimbursement levels, the company may be unable to sell the affected product(s) through its distribution channels on a profitable basis. Reduced government reimbursement levels and changes in reimbursement policies have in the past added, and could continue to add, significant pressure to the company’s revenues and profitability. Effective November 15, 2006, the CMS reduced the maximum reimbursement amount for power wheelchairs under Medicare by up to 28%, and implemented a series of other administrative changes that makes it more difficult for customers to provide power wheelchairs. Additionally, the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 includes payment cuts for home oxygen equipment that will take effect in January 2009. Largely as a consequence of the announced reimbursement reductions and the uncertainty created thereby, North American net sales were lower in 2007 and 2006 as compared to 2005 and Asia/Pacific sales were also negatively impacted as the U.S. reimbursement uncertainty in the power wheelchair market resulted in decreased sales of microprocessor controllers by the company’s Dynamic Controls subsidiary. Sales of respiratory products were particularly affected by the changes. Small and independent provider sales declined as these dealers slowed their purchases of the company’s HomeFill™ oxygen system product line, in part, until they had a clearer view of future oxygen reimbursement levels. Furthermore, a study issued by the Office of Inspector General or “OIG,” in September 2006 suggested that $3.2 billion in savings could be achieved over five years by reducing the reimbursed rental period from three years (the reimbursement period under current law) to 13 months. During 2007, the U.S. House of Representatives and U.S. Senate each drafted Medicare provisions that were not passed into law. The House package included a proposal to reduce the home oxygen rental cap to 18 months, with an exemption for new technology such as Invacare’s Homefill system and portable oxygen concentrators. The Senate package would have made payment cuts to traditional home oxygen equipment, but would have retained current payment levels for new oxygen technology such as the Homefill system and portable oxygen concentrators. While it is unclear whether Congress will pass a Medicare bill this year, we expect Congress to continue consideration of these proposals in 2008. The uncertainty created by these announcements may negatively impact the home oxygen equipment market. I-16 Table of Contents Similar trends and concerns are occurring in state Medicaid programs. These recent changes to reimbursement policies, and any additional unfavorable reimbursement policies or budgetary cuts that may be adopted, could adversely affect the demand for the company’s products by customers who depend on reimbursement by the government-funded programs. The percentage of the company’s overall sales that are dependent on Medicare or other insurance programs may increase as the portion of the U.S. population over age 65 continues to grow, making the company more vulnerable to reimbursement level reductions by these organizations. Reduced government reimbursement levels also could result in reduced private payor reimbursement levels because some third-party payors may index their reimbursement schedules to Medicare fee schedules. Reductions in reimbursement levels also may affect the profitability of the company’s customers and ultimately force some customers without strong financial resources to go out of business. The reductions announced recently may be so dramatic that some of the company’s customers may not be able to adapt quickly enough to survive. The company is the industry’s largest creditor and an increase in bankruptcies in the company’s customer base could have an adverse effect on the company’s financial results. Medicare will institute a new competitive bidding program for various items in ten large metropolitan areas beginning July 1, 2008. This program is designed to reduce Medicare payment levels for items that the Medicare program spends the most money on under the home medical equipment benefit, including oxygen and power wheelchairs. This new program will eliminate some providers from the competitive bidding markets, because only those providers who are chosen to participate (based largely on price) will be able to provide beneficiaries with items included in the bid. Medicare will be expanding the program to an additional 70 metropolitan areas in 2009. In addition, in 2009, Medicare has the authority to apply bid rates from bidding areas in non-bid areas. The competitive bidding program will result in reduced payment levels, that will vary by product category and by metropolitan area, and will depend in large part upon the level of bids the company’s customers submit in an effort to ensure they become approved contract suppliers. It is difficult to predict the specific reductions in payment levels that will result from this process. Outside the United States, reimbursement systems vary significantly by country. Many foreign markets have government-managed health care systems that govern reimbursement for new home health care products. The ability of hospitals and other providers supported by such systems to purchase the company’s products is dependent, in part, upon public budgetary constraints. Canada and Germany and other European countries, for example, have tightened reimbursement rates and other countries may follow. If adequate levels of reimbursement from third-party payors outside of the United States are not obtained, international sales of the company’s products may decline, which could adversely affect the company’s net sales and would have a material adverse effect on the company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The impact of all the changes discussed above is uncertain and could have a material adverse effect on the company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The consolidation of health care customers and the company’s competitors could result in a loss of customers or in additional competitive pricing pressures. Numerous initiatives and reforms instituted by legislators, regulators and third-party payors to reduce home medical equipment costs have resulted in a consolidation trend in the home medical equipment industry as well as among the company’s customers, including home health care providers. Some of the company’s competitors have been lowering the purchase prices of their products in an effort to attract customers. This in turn has resulted in greater pricing pressures, including pressure to offer customers more competitive pricing terms, and the exclusion of certain suppliers from important market segments as group purchasing organizations, independent delivery networks and large single accounts continue to consolidate purchasing decisions for some of the company’s customers. Further consolidation could result in a loss of customers, including increased collectibility risks, or in increased competitive pricing pressures. The industry in which the company operates is highly competitive and some of the company’s competitors may be larger and may have greater financial resources than the company does. The home medical equipment market is highly competitive and the company’s products face significant competition from other well-established manufacturers. Any increase in competition may cause the company to lose market share or compel the company to reduce prices to remain competitive, which could materially adversely affect the company’s results of operations. I-17 Table of Contents If the company’s cost reduction efforts are ineffective, the company’s revenues and profitability could be negatively impacted. In response to the reductions in Medicare power wheelchair and oxygen reimbursement levels and other governmental and third party payor pricing pressures and competitive pricing pressures, the company initiated cost reduction efforts and continues to implement further reductions. The company may not be successful in achieving the operating efficiencies and operating cost reductions expected from these efforts, including the estimated cost savings described above, and the company may experience business disruptions associated with the restructuring and cost reduction activities, including the restructuring activities previously announced and, in particular, the company’s facility consolidations initiated in connection with these activities. These efforts may not produce the full efficiency and cost reduction benefits that the company expects. Further, these benefits may be realized later than expected, and the costs of implementing these measures may be greater than anticipated. If these measures are not successful, the company intends to undertake additional cost reduction efforts, which could result in future charges. Moreover, the company’s ability to achieve other strategic goals and business plans and the company’s financial performance may be adversely affected and the company could experience business disruptions with customers and elsewhere if the company’s cost reduction and restructuring efforts prove ineffective. The company’s success depends on the company’s ability to design, manufacture, distribute and achieve market acceptance of new products with higher functionality and lower costs. The company sells products to customers primarily in markets that are characterized by technological change, product innovation and evolving industry standards and in which product price is increasingly the primary consideration in customers’ purchasing decisions. The company is continually engaged in product development and improvement programs. The company must continue to design and improve innovative products, effectively distribute and achieve market acceptance of those products, and reduce the costs of producing the company’s products, in order to compete successfully with the company’s competitors. If competitors’ product development capabilities become more effective than the company’s product development capabilities, if competitors’ new or improved products are accepted by the market before the company’s products or if competitors are able to produce products at a lower cost and thus offer products for sale at a lower price, the company’s business, financial condition and results of operation could be adversely affected. The company is subject to extensive government regulation, and if the company fails to comply with applicable laws or regulations, the company could suffer severe criminal or civil sanctions or be required to make significant changes to the company’s operations that could have a material adverse effect on the company’s results of operations. The company sells its products principally to medical equipment and home health care providers who resell or rent those products to consumers. Many of those providers (the company’s customers) are reimbursed for the Invacare® products sold to their customers and patients by third-party payors, including Medicare and Medicaid. The federal government and all states and countries in which we operate regulate many aspects of the company’s business. As a health care manufacturer, the company is subject to extensive government regulation, including numerous laws directed at preventing fraud and abuse and laws regulating reimbursement under various government programs. The marketing, invoicing, documenting and other practices of health care suppliers and manufacturers are all subject to government scrutiny. Government agencies periodically open investigations and obtain information from health care suppliers and manufacturers pursuant to the legal process. Violations of law or regulations can result in severe criminal, civil and administrative penalties and sanctions, including disqualification from Medicare and other reimbursement programs, which could have a material adverse effect on the company’s business. The company has established policies and procedures that the company believes are sufficient to ensure that the company will operate in substantial compliance with these laws and regulations. I-18 Table of Contents The company received a subpoena in 2006 from the U.S. Department of Justice seeking documents relating to three long-standing and well-known promotional and rebate programs maintained by the company. The company believes the programs described in the subpoena are in compliance with all applicable laws and the company is cooperating fully with the government investigation which is currently being conducted out of Washington, D.C. There can be no assurance that the company’s business or financial condition will not be adversely affected by the government investigation. Health care is an area of rapid regulatory change. Changes in the law and new interpretations of existing laws may affect permissible activities, the costs associated with doing business, and reimbursement amounts paid by federal, state and other third-party payors. The company cannot predict the future of federal, state and local regulation or legislation, including Medicare and Medicaid statutes and regulations, or possible changes in health care policies in any country in which the company conducts business. Future legislation and regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on the company’s business. The company’s research and development and manufacturing processes are subject to federal, state, local and foreign environmental requirements. The company’s research and development and manufacturing processes are subject to federal, state, local and foreign environmental requirements, including requirements governing the discharge of pollutants into the air or water, the use, handling, storage and disposal of hazardous substances and the responsibility to investigate and cleanup of contaminated sites. Under some of these laws, the company could also be held responsible for costs relating to any contamination at the company’s past or present facilities and at third-party waste disposal sites. These could include costs relating to contamination that did not result from any violation of law and, in some circumstances, contamination that the company did not cause. The company may incur significant expenses relating to the failure to comply with environmental laws. The enactment of stricter laws or regulations, the stricter interpretation of existing laws and regulations or the requirement to undertake the investigation or remediation of currently unknown environmental contamination at the company’s own or third party sites may require the company to make additional expenditures, which could be material. Lower cost imports could negatively impact the company’s profitability. Lower cost imports sourced from Asia may negatively impact the company’s sales volumes. Competition from these products may force the company to lower our prices, cutting into the company’s profit margins and reducing the company’s overall profitability. Asian goods had a particularly strong negative impact on the company’s sales of Standard Products (this category includes products such as manual wheelchairs, canes, walkers and bath aids) during 2006 and 2007. The company’s failure to comply with regulatory requirements or receive regulatory clearance or approval for the company’s products or operations in the United States or abroad could adversely affect the company’s business. The company’s medical devices are subject to extensive regulation in the United States by the Food and Drug Administration, or the “FDA,” and by similar governmental authorities in the foreign countries where the company does business. The FDA regulates virtually all aspects of a medical device’s development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, promotion, distribution and marketing. In addition, the company is required to file reports with the FDA if the company’s products cause, or contribute to, death or serious injury, or if they malfunction and would be likely to cause, or contribute to, death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. In general, unless an exemption applies, the company’s wheelchair and respiratory medical devices must receive a pre-marketing clearance from the FDA before they can be marketed in the United States. The FDA also regulates the export of medical devices to foreign countries. The company cannot be assured that any of the company’s devices, to the extent required, will be cleared by the FDA through the pre-market clearance process or that the FDA will provide export certificates that are necessary to export certain of the company’s products. I-19 Table of Contents Additionally, the company may be required to obtain pre-marketing clearances to market modifications to the company’s existing products or market its existing products for new indications. The FDA requires device manufacturers themselves to make and document a determination of whether or not a modification requires a new clearance; however, the FDA can review and disagree with a manufacturer’s decision. The company has applied for, and received, a number of such clearances in the past. The company may not be successful in receiving clearances in the future or the FDA may not agree with the company’s decisions not to seek clearances for any particular device modification. The FDA may require a clearance for any past or future modification or a new indication for the company’s existing products. Such submissions may require the submission of additional data and may be time consuming and costly, and may not ultimately be cleared by the FDA. If the FDA requires the company to obtain pre-marketing clearances for any modification to a previously cleared device, the company may be required to cease manufacturing and marketing the modified device or to recall the modified device until the company obtains FDA clearance and the company may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties. In addition, the FDA may not clear these submissions in a timely manner, if at all. The FDA also may change its policies, adopt additional regulations or revise existing regulations, each of which could prevent or delay pre-market clearance of the company’s devices, or could impact the company’s ability to market a device that was previously cleared. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect the company’s business. The company’s failure to comply with the regulatory requirements of the FDA and other applicable U.S. regulatory requirements may subject the company to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions. These sanctions include warning letters, civil penalties, criminal penalties, injunctions, product seizure or detention, product recalls and total or partial suspension of production. In many of the foreign countries in which the company markets its products, the company is subject to extensive regulations that are similar to those of the FDA, including those in Europe. The regulation of the company’s products in Europe falls primarily within the European Economic Area, which consists of the 27 member states of the European Union, as well as Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway. Only medical devices that comply with certain conformity requirements of the Medical Device Directive are allowed to be marketed within the European Economic Area. In addition, the national health or social security organizations of certain foreign countries, including those outside Europe, require the company’s products to be qualified before they can be marketed in those countries. Failure to receive or delays in the receipt of, relevant foreign qualifications in the European Economic Area or other foreign countries could have a material adverse effect on the company’s business. The company’s products are subject to recalls, which could harm the company’s reputation and business. The company is subject to ongoing medical device reporting regulations that require the company to report to the FDA or similar governmental authorities in other countries if the company’s products cause, or contribute to, death or serious injury, or if they malfunction and would be likely to cause, or contribute to, death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. The FDA and similar governmental authorities in other countries have the authority to require the company to do a field correction or recall the company’s products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacturing. In addition, in light of a deficiency, defect in design or manufacturing or defect in labeling, the company may voluntarily elect to recall or correct the company’s products. A government mandated or voluntary recall/field correction by the company could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors or design defects, including defects in labeling. Any recall/field correction would divert managerial and financial resources and could harm the company’s reputation with its customers, product users and the health care professionals that use, prescribe and recommend the company’s products. The company could have product recalls or field actions that result in significant costs to the company in the future, and these actions could have a material adverse effect on the company’s business. I-20 Table of Contents The company’s reported results may be adversely affected by increases in reserves for uncollectible accounts receivable. The company has a large balance of accounts receivable and has established a reserve for the portion of such accounts receivable that the company estimates will not be collected because of the company’s customers’ non-payment. The reserve is based on historical trends and current relationships with the company’s customers and providers. Changes in the company’s collection rates can result from a number of factors, including turnover in personnel, changes in the payment policies or practices of payors or changes in industry rates or pace of reimbursement. As a result of recent changes in Medicare reimbursement regulations, specifically changes to the qualification processes and reimbursement levels of consumer power wheelchairs and custom power wheelchairs, the business viability of several of the company’s customers has become questionable. The company’s reserve for uncollectible receivables has fluctuated in the past and will continue to fluctuate in the future. Changes in rates of collection or fluctuations, even if they are small in absolute terms, could require the company to increase its reserve for uncollectible receivables beyond its current level. The company has reviewed the accounts receivables associated with many of its customers that are most exposed to these issues. As part of the company’s 2006 financial results, the company recorded an incremental accounts receivable reserve of $26.8 million and continues to closely monitor collections and the credit-worthiness of the company’s customers. Total provision for bad debt for the company in 2006 was $37.7 million. In addition, during 2007, the company provided for an additional bad debt reserve of $11.9 million. Difficulties in implementing a new Enterprise Resource Planning system have disrupted the company’s business. During the fourth quarter of 2005, the company implemented the second phase of the company’s Enterprise Resource Planning, or “ERP,” system. Primarily as a result of the complexities and business process changes associated with this implementation, the company encountered a number of issues related to the start-up of the system, including difficulties in processing orders, customer disruptions and the loss of some business. While the company believes that the difficulties associated with implementing and stabilizing the company’s ERP system were temporary and have been addressed, there can be no assurance that the company will not experience additional ongoing disruptions or inefficiencies in the company’s business operations as a result of this new system implementation, the final phases of which are to be completed in 2008 or 2009. The company may be adversely affected by legal actions or regulatory proceedings. The company may be subject to claims, litigation or other liabilities as a result of injuries caused by allegedly defective products, acquisitions the company has completed or in the intellectual property area. Any such claims or litigation against the company, regardless of the merits, could result in substantial costs and could harm the company’s business. Intellectual property litigation or claims also could require the company to: • cease manufacturing and selling any of the company’s products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; • obtain a license from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right alleged to have been infringed, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all; or • redesign or rename the company’s products, which may not be possible, and could be costly and time consuming. The results of legal proceedings are difficult to predict and the company cannot provide any assurance that an action or proceeding will not be commenced against the company, or that the company will prevail in any such action or proceeding. An unfavorable resolution of any legal action or proceeding could materially and adversely affect the company’s business, results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. I-21 Table of Contents Product liability claims may harm the company’s business, particularly if the number of claims increases significantly or the company’s product liability insurance proves inadequate. The manufacture and sale of home health care devices and related products exposes the company to a significant risk of product liability claims. From time to time, the company has been, and is currently, subject to a number of product liability claims alleging that the use of the company’s products has resulted in serious injury or even death. Even if the company is successful in defending against any liability claims, these claims could nevertheless distract the company’s management, result in substantial costs, harm the company’s reputation, adversely affect the sales of all the company’s products and otherwise harm the company’s business. If there is a significant increase in the number of product liability claims, the company’s business could be adversely affected. The company’s captive insurance company, Invatection Insurance Company, currently has a policy year that runs from September 1 to August 31 and insures annual policy losses of $10,000,000 per occurrence and $13,000,000 in the aggregate of the company’s North American product liability exposure. The company also has additional layers of external insurance coverage insuring up to $75,000,000 in annual aggregate losses arising from individual claims anywhere in the world that exceed the captive insurance company policy limits or the limits of the company’s per country foreign liability limits as applicable. There can be no assurance that the company’s current insurance levels will continue to be adequate or available at affordable rates. Product liability reserves are recorded for individual claims based upon historical experience, industry expertise and indications from a third-party actuary. Additional reserves, in excess of the specific individual case reserves, are provided for incurred but not reported claims based upon third-party actuarial valuations at the time such valuations are conducted. Historical claims experience and other assumptions are taken into consideration by the third-party actuary to estimate the ultimate reserves. For example, the actuarial analysis assumes that historical loss experience is an indicator of future experience, that the distribution of exposures by geographic area and nature of operations for ongoing operations is expected to be very similar to historical operations with no dramatic changes and that the government indices used to trend losses and exposures are appropriate. Estimates are adjusted on a regular basis and can be impacted by actual loss awards or settlements on claims. While actuarial analysis is used to help determine adequate reserves, the company is responsible for the determination and recording of adequate reserves in accordance with accepted loss reserving standards and practices. In addition, as a result of a product liability claim or if the company’s products are alleged to be defective, the company may have to recall some of its products, which could result in significant costs to the company and harm the company’s business reputation. If the company’s patents and other intellectual property rights do not adequately protect the company’s products, the company may lose market share to its competitors and may not be able to operate the company’s business profitably. The company relies on a combination of patents, trade secrets and trademarks to establish and protect the company’s intellectual property rights in its products and the processes for the development, manufacture and marketing of the company’s products. The company uses non-patented proprietary know-how, trade secrets, undisclosed internal processes and other proprietary information and currently employs various methods to protect this proprietary information, including confidentiality agreements, invention assignment agreements and proprietary information agreements with vendors, employees, independent sales agents, distributors, consultants, and others. However, these agreements may be breached. The FDA or another governmental agency may require the disclosure of this information in order for the company to have the right to market a product. Trade secrets, know-how and other unpatented proprietary technology may also otherwise become known to or independently developed by the company’s competitors. I-22 Table of Contents In addition, the company also holds U.S. and foreign patents relating to a number of its components and products and has patent applications pending with respect to other components and products. The company also applies for additional patents in the ordinary course of its business, as the company deems appropriate. However, these precautions offer only limited protection, and the company’s proprietary information may become known to, or be independently developed by, competitors, or the company’s proprietary rights in intellectual property may be challenged, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, the company cannot assure that its existing or future patents, if any, will afford the company adequate protection or any competitive advantage, that any future patent applications will result in issued patents or that the company’s patents will not be circumvented, invalidated or declared unenforceable. Any proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office could result in adverse decisions as to the priority of the company’s inventions and the narrowing or invalidation of claims in issued patents. The company could also incur substantial costs in any proceeding. In addition, the laws of some of the countries in which the company’s products are or may be sold may not protect the company’s products and intellectual property to the same extent as U.S. laws, if at all. The company may also be unable to protect the company’s rights in trade secrets and unpatented proprietary technology in these countries. In addition, the company holds patent and other intellectual property licenses from third parties for some of its products and on technologies that are necessary in the design and manufacture of some of the company’s products. The loss of these licenses could prevent the company from, or could cause additional disruption or expense in, manufacturing, marketing and selling these products, which could harm the company’s business. The company’s operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected if the company becomes involved in litigation regarding its patents or other intellectual property rights. Litigation involving patents and other intellectual property rights is common in the company’s industry, and companies in the company’s industry have used intellectual property litigation in an attempt to gain a competitive advantage. The company currently is, and in the future may become, a party to lawsuits involving patents or other intellectual property. Litigation is costly and time consuming. If the company loses any of these proceedings, a court or a similar foreign governing body could invalidate or render unenforceable the company’s owned or licensed patents, require the company to pay significant damages, seek licenses and/or pay ongoing royalties to third parties, require the company to redesign its products, or prevent the company from manufacturing, using or selling its products, any of which would have an adverse effect on the company’s results of operations and financial condition. The company has brought, and may in the future also bring, actions against third parties for an infringement of the company’s intellectual property rights. The company may not succeed in these actions. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits, proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or its foreign equivalents and related legal and administrative proceedings are both costly and time consuming. Protracted litigation to defend or prosecute the company’s intellectual property rights could seriously detract from the time the company’s management would otherwise devote to running its business. Intellectual property litigation relating to the company’s products could cause its customers or potential customers to defer or limit their purchase or use of the affected products until resolution of the litigation. The company’s business strategy relies on certain assumptions concerning demographic trends that impact the market for its products. If these assumptions prove to be incorrect, demand for the company’s products may be lower than expected. The company’s ability to achieve its business objectives is subject to a variety of factors, including the relative increase in the aging of the general population. The company believes that these trends will increase the need for its products. The projected demand for the company’s products could materially differ from actual demand if the company’s assumptions regarding these trends and acceptance of its products by health care professionals and patients prove to be incorrect or do not materialize. If the company’s assumptions regarding these factors prove to be incorrect, the company may not be able to successfully implement the company’s business strategy, which could adversely affect the company’s results of operations. In addition, the perceived benefits of these trends may be offset by competitive or business factors, such as the introduction of new products by the company’s competitors or the emergence of other countervailing trends. I-23 Table of Contents The loss of the services of the company’s key management and personnel could adversely affect its ability to operate the company’s business. The company’s future success will depend, in part, upon the continued service of key managerial, research and development staff and sales and technical personnel. In addition, the company’s future success will depend on its ability to continue to attract and retain other highly qualified personnel. The company may not be successful in retaining its current personnel or in hiring or retaining qualified personnel in the future. The company’s failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on the company’s business. These executive officers have substantial experience and expertise in the company’s industry. The company’s future success depends, to a significant extent, on the abilities and efforts of its executive officers and other members of its management team. If the company loses the services of any of its management team, the company’s business may be adversely affected. The company’s Chief Executive Officer and certain members of management own shares representing a substantial percentage of the company’s voting power and their interests may differ from other shareholders. The company has two classes of common stock. The Common Shares have one vote per share and the Class B Common Shares have 10 votes per share. As of January 1, 2008 the company’s chairman and CEO, Mr. A. Malachi Mixon, III, and certain members of management beneficially own up to approximately 34% of the combined voting power of the company’s Common Shares and Class B Common Shares and could influence the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to the shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of the company’s assets. They will also have the power to influence or make more difficult a change in control. The interests of Mr. Mixon and his relatives may differ from the interests of the other shareholders and they may take actions with which some shareholders may disagree. Mr. Mixon, however, is committed to the long-term interests of all shareholders. Decreased availability or increased costs of raw materials could increase the company’s costs of producing its products. The company purchases raw materials, fabricated components and services from a variety of suppliers. Raw materials such as plastics, steel, and aluminum are considered key raw materials. Where appropriate, the company employs contracts with its suppliers, both domestic and international. In those situations in which contracts are not advantageous, the company believes that its relationships with their suppliers are satisfactory and that alternative sources of supply are readily available. From time to time, however, the prices and availability of these raw materials fluctuate due to global market demands, which could impair the company’s ability to procure necessary materials, or increase the cost of these materials. Inflationary and other increases in costs of these raw materials have occurred in the past and may recur from time to time. In addition, freight costs associated with shipping and receiving product and sales are impacted by fluctuations in the cost of oil and gas. A reduction in the supply or increase in the cost of those raw materials could impact the company’s ability to manufacture its products and could increase the cost of production. As an example, the increased inflation in China has and will probably continue to impact the faster appreciation of the Yuan as well as have an unfavorable impact on the cost of key commodities, such as steel and aluminum. These impacts can have a negative impact on the profits of the company if these increases cannot be passed onto our customers. Since the company’s ability to obtain further financing may be limited, the company may be unable to acquire strategic acquisition candidates. The company’s plans include identifying, acquiring, and integrating other strategic businesses. There are various reasons for the company to acquire businesses or product lines, including providing new products or new manufacturing and service capabilities, to add new customers, to increase penetration with existing customers, and to expand into new geographic markets. The company’s ability to successfully grow through acquisitions depends upon its ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate suitable acquisitions and to obtain any necessary financing. The costs of acquiring other businesses could increase if competition for acquisition candidates increases. If the company is unable to obtain the necessary financing, it may miss opportunities to grow its business through strategic acquisitions. I-24 Table of Contents Additionally, the success of the company’s acquisition strategy is subject to other risks and costs, including the following: • the company’s ability to realize operating efficiencies, synergies, or other benefits expected from an acquisition, and possible delays in realizing the benefits of the acquired company or products; • diversion of management’s time and attention from other business concerns; • difficulties in retaining key employees of the acquired businesses who are necessary to manage these businesses; • difficulties in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies throughout acquired companies; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers or customers; • the risks associated with the assumption of contingent or undisclosed liabilities of acquisition targets; and • ability to generate future cash flows or the availability of financing. In addition, an acquisition could materially impair the company’s operating results by causing the company to incur debt or requiring the amortization of acquisition expenses and acquired assets. The company is subject to certain risks inherent in managing and operating businesses in many different foreign jurisdictions. The company has significant international operations, including operations in Australia, New Zealand, Asia and Europe. There are risks inherent in operating and selling products internationally, including: • difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; • foreign customers who may have longer payment cycles than customers in the United States; • tax rates in certain foreign countries that may exceed those in the United States and foreign earnings that may be subject to withholding requirements; • the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other trade restrictions including transfer pricing restrictions when products produced in one country are sold to an affiliated entity in another country; • general economic and political conditions in countries where the company operates or where end users of the company’s products reside; • difficulties associated with managing a large organization spread throughout various countries; • difficulties in enforcing intellectual property rights and weaker intellectual property rights protection in some countries; • required compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations; • different regulatory environments and reimbursement systems; and • differing consumer product preferences. I-25 Table of Contents The company’s revenues and profits are subject to exchange rate fluctuations that could adversely affect its results of operations or financial position. Currency exchange rates are subject to fluctuation due to, among other things, changes in local, regional or global economic conditions, the imposition of currency exchange restrictions and unexpected changes in regulatory or taxation environments. The functional currency of the company’s subsidiaries outside the United States is the predominant currency used by the subsidiaries to transact business. Through the company’s international operations, the company is exposed to foreign currency fluctuations, and changes in exchange rates can have a significant impact on net sales and elements of cost. The company uses forward contracts to help reduce its exposure to exchange rate variation risk. Despite the company’s efforts to mitigate these risks, however, the company’s revenues and profitability may be materially adversely affected by exchange rate fluctuations. The company also is exposed to market risk through various financial instruments, including fixed rate and floating rate debt instruments. The company uses interest swap agreements to mitigate its exposure to interest rate fluctuations, but those efforts may not adequately protect the company from significant interest rate risks. Certain provisions of the company’s debt agreements, its charter documents, its shareholder rights plan and Ohio law could delay or prevent the sale of the company. Provisions of the company’s debt agreements, its charter documents, its shareholder rights plan and Ohio law may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or attempt to acquire, control of the company even if a change in control would result in the purchase of shares of the company at a premium to market price. In addition, these provisions may limit the ability of shareholders of the company to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interest. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 