1A. Risk Factors.The Company’s business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. One should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this annual report on Form 10-K and in the Company’s other filings with the SEC, before making any investment decision with respect to the Company’s securities. The risks and uncertainties described below may not be the only ones the Company faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known by the Company or that the Company currently deems immaterial may also affect the Company’s business. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occur, develop or worsen, the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects could change substantially.The Company is subject to a consent decree of injunction ("consent decree") with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”), the effects of which are costly to the Company and could result in continued adverse consequences to the Company's business.The consent decree, which was filed as an exhibit to the Company's Form 8-K filed on December 20, 2012, became effective December 21, 2012. The injunction limits the Company's manufacture and distribution of power and manual wheelchairs, wheelchair components and wheelchair sub-assemblies at or from its Taylor Street manufacturing facility. The decree also temporarily limited design activities related to wheelchairs and power beds that take place at the impacted Elyria, Ohio facilities. However, the Company is entitled to continue to produce from the Taylor Street manufacturing facility certain medically necessary wheelchairs provided that documentation and record-keeping requirements are followed, as well as ongoing replacement, service and repair of products already in use, under terms delineated in the consent decree. In addition, the Company was able to fulfill purchase orders and quotes that were in the Company's order fulfillment system prior to the effective date of the decree. Under the terms of the consent decree, in order to resume full operations at the impacted facilities, the Company must successfully complete a third-party expert certification audit and receive written notification from the FDA. The certification audit is comprised of three distinct reports. The first two of the three certification reports were completed and accepted by the FDA during 2013. The final and most comprehensive certification audit was initiated during 2013, but has not yet been completed. During the final certification audit, the third-party expert indicated that some additional work was required, primarily in the Company’s updated complaint and risk review processes, before the final certification report could be completed and provided to the FDA. The Company has been executing its action plan relating to the expert’s comments, in preparation for the return at the end of February 2014 of the third-party expert and recommencement of the final certification audit, but the timing of the completion of the third certification report is uncertain. After completion of the third certification report, the Company then must submit its own report related to its compliance status and its responses to any observations by the third-party expert or by the FDA from prior inspections. The Company will not be able to resume full operations at the corporate and Taylor Street facilities until the FDA issues written notice that it has found the facilities to be in compliance. Within 30 days of receiving the Company’s report, according to the terms of the consent decree, the FDA will begin a comprehensive inspection of the corporate and Taylor Street facilities.It is not possible for the Company to estimate the timing or potential response of the FDA's inspection and subsequent written notification. A delay in the timing of the completion of the final third-party expert certification audit, the FDA's inspection or written notification to resume operations, or any need to complete significant additional remediation as a result of the final third-party expert certification audit or the FDA inspection could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.After resumption of full operations, the Company must undergo five years of audits by a third-party expert auditor, who will issue reports to the Company and the FDA identifying whether the facilities are operated and administered in continuous compliance with FDA regulations and the consent decree. Under the consent decree, the FDA has the authority to inspect the corporate and Taylor Street facilities at any time. The FDA also has the authority to order the Company to take a wide variety of actions if the FDA finds that the Company is not in compliance with the consent decree or FDA regulations. The FDA also has authority under the consent decree to assess liquidated damages for any violations of the consent decree, FDA regulations or the federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. See Item 1. Business -- Government Regulation. Any such failure by the Company to comply with the consent decree or FDA regulations, or any need to complete significant remediation as a result of any such audits or inspections, or actions taken by the FDA as a result of any such failure to comply, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, liquidity or results of operations. During the pendency of the consent decree negotiations in 2012, and during its effectiveness since December 21, 2012, the Company has experienced significant pressures on its net sales and operating results. See Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The Company expects to continue to experience decreased net sales and profitability, particularly in the North America/HME segment, until it has successfully completed the previously described final third-party expert certification audit and FDA inspection and has received written notification from the FDA that the Company I-16Table of Contentsmay resume full operations. Even after the Company receives the FDA notification, it is uncertain as to whether, or how quickly, the Company will be able to rebuild net sales and profitability to more typical historical levels, irrespective of market conditions. The Company’s failure to comply with medical device regulatory requirements or receive regulatory clearance or approval for the Company’s products or operations in the United States or abroad could adversely affect the Company’s business.The Company’s medical devices are subject to extensive regulation in the United States by the FDA, and by similar governmental authorities in the foreign countries where the Company does business. The FDA regulates virtually all aspects of a medical device’s development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, promotion, distribution and marketing. In addition, the Company is required to file reports with the FDA if the Company’s products may have caused, or contributed to a death or serious injury, or if they malfunction and would be likely to cause, or contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. In general, unless an exemption applies, the Company’s mobility and respiratory therapy medical devices must receive a pre-marketing clearance from the FDA before they can be marketed in the United States. The FDA also regulates the export of medical devices to foreign countries. The Company cannot be assured that any of the Company’s devices, to the extent required, will be cleared by the FDA through the pre-market clearance process or that the FDA will provide export certificates that are necessary to export certain of the Company’s products. Export certificates are required for the Company to have its products registered for sale in certain foreign countries. The inability to obtain export certificates for products produced at its Taylor Street or Sanford facilities has limited the Company's ability to support new foreign markets with such products. In connection with the FDA warning letter received by the Company's Sanford, Florida facility in December 2010, as described below, the FDA has refused to provide new export certificates for Company products until the matters covered in the warning letter are resolved. Currently, the Company cannot obtain new certificates of export for Sanford, Florida facility products until the warning letter has been closed and for Taylor Street facility products until the Company has exited the injunctive phase of the consent decree.Additionally, the Company is required to obtain pre-market clearances to market modifications to the Company’s existing products or market its existing products for new indications. The FDA requires device manufacturers themselves to make and document a determination as to whether or not a modification requires a new clearance; however, the FDA can review and disagree with a manufacturer’s decision. The Company has applied for, and received, a number of pre-market clearances for modifications to marketed devices. The Company may not be successful in receiving clearances in the future or the FDA may not agree with the Company’s decisions not to seek clearances for any particular device modification. The FDA may require a clearance for any past or future modification or a new indication for the Company’s existing products. Such submissions may require the submission of additional data and may be time consuming and costly, and ultimately may not be cleared by the FDA.If the FDA requires the Company to obtain pre-market clearances for any modification to a previously cleared device, the Company may be required to cease manufacturing and marketing the modified device or to recall the modified device until the Company obtains FDA clearance, and the Company may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties. In addition, the FDA may not clear these submissions in a timely manner, if at all. The FDA also may change its policies, adopt additional regulations or revise existing regulations, each of which could prevent or delay pre-market clearance of the Company’s devices, or could impact the Company’s ability to market a device that was previously cleared. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect the Company’s business.The Company’s failure to comply with the regulatory requirements of the FDA and other applicable U.S. regulatory requirements may subject the Company to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions. These sanctions include warning letters, civil penalties, criminal penalties, injunctions, consent decrees, product seizure or detention, product recalls and total or partial suspension of production.As part of its regulatory function, the FDA routinely inspects the sites of medical device companies, and in 2010, 2011 and 2014, the FDA inspected certain of the Company's facilities. In December 2012, the Company and the FDA agreed to a consent decree of injunction affecting the Company's corporate facility and its Taylor Street manufacturing facility in Elyria, Ohio. See the previous Risk Factor regarding the FDA consent decree. In addition, in December 2010, the Company received a warning letter from the FDA related to quality system processes and procedures at the Company's Sanford, Florida facility. The Company is executing a comprehensive quality systems remediation plan that is intended to address all of the FDA's concerns in the warning letter. However, the results of regulatory claims, proceedings or investigations are difficult to predict. An unfavorable resolution or outcome of the FDA warning letter, or any other matter that may arise out of any FDA inspection of the Company's sites, could materially and adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. In January 2014, the FDA conducted inspections at the Company’s manufacturing facility in Suzhou, China and at the Company’s electronic components subsidiary in Christchurch, New Zealand, covering quality systems and current Good Manufacturing Practice regulations. The FDA issued its inspectional observations on Form 483 to the Company after these inspections, and the Company submitted its responses to the agency in a timely manner.I-17Table of ContentsIn many of the foreign countries in which the Company manufactures or markets its products, the Company is subject to extensive medical device regulations that are similar to those of the FDA, including those in Europe. The regulation of the Company’s products in Europe falls primarily within the European Economic Area, which consists of the 27 member states of the European Union, as well as Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway. Only medical devices that comply with certain conformity requirements of the Medical Device Directive are allowed to be marketed within the European Economic Area. In addition, the national health or social security organizations of certain foreign countries, including those outside Europe, require the Company’s products to be qualified before they can be marketed in those countries. Failure to receive or delays in the receipt of, relevant foreign qualifications in the European Economic Area or other foreign countries could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business.Being in the health care industry, the Company is subject to extensive government regulation, and if the Company fails to comply with applicable health care laws or regulations, the Company could suffer severe civil or criminal sanctions or be required to make significant changes to the Company’s operations that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations.The Company sells its products principally to medical equipment and home health care providers who resell or rent those products to consumers. Many of those providers (the Company’s customers) are reimbursed for the Invacare products sold to their customers and patients by third-party payors, including Medicare and Medicaid. The U.S. federal government and the governments in the states and other countries in which the Company operates regulate many aspects of the Company’s business. As a part of the health care industry, the Company is subject to extensive government regulation, including numerous laws directed at preventing fraud and abuse and laws regulating reimbursement under various government programs. The marketing, invoicing, documenting and other practices of health care suppliers and manufacturers are all subject to government scrutiny. Government agencies periodically open investigations and obtain information from health care suppliers and manufacturers pursuant to the legal process. Violations of law or regulations can result in severe administrative, civil and criminal penalties and sanctions, including disqualification from Medicare and other reimbursement programs, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. While the Company has established numerous policies and procedures to address compliance with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that the Company's efforts will be effective to prevent a material adverse effect on the Company’s business from noncompliance issues. For example, as discussed in the preceding Risk Factors, the Company is subject to a FDA consent decree affecting its corporate facility and Taylor Street manufacturing facility in Elyria, Ohio and received a FDA warning letter related to its Sanford, Florida facility.The Company received a subpoena in 2006 from the U.S. Department of Justice ("DOJ") seeking documents relating to three long-standing and well-known promotional and rebate programs maintained by the Company. The Company believes that the programs described in the subpoena are in compliance with all applicable laws and the Company has cooperated fully with the government investigation. As of February 2014, the subpoena remains pending; although the last communication with the DOJ was in 2007.Health care is an area of rapid regulatory change. Changes in the law and new interpretations of existing laws may affect permissible activities, the costs associated with doing business, and reimbursement amounts paid by federal, state and other third-party payors. The Company cannot predict the future of federal, state and local regulation or legislation, including Medicare and Medicaid statutes and regulations, or possible changes in health care policies in any country in which the Company conducts business. Future legislation and regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business.Changes in government and other third-party payor reimbursement levels and practices have negatively impacted and could continue to negatively impact the Company’s revenues and profitability.The Company’s products are sold primarily through a network of medical equipment and home health care providers, extended care facilities, hospital and HMO-based stores and other providers. In addition, the Company sells directly to various government providers throughout the world. Many of these providers (the Company’s customers) are reimbursed for the products and services provided to their customers and patients by third-party payors, such as government programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, private insurance plans and managed care programs. Most of these programs set maximum reimbursement levels for some of the products sold by the Company in the United States and abroad. If third-party payors deny coverage, make the reimbursement process or documentation requirements more uncertain or further reduce their current levels of reimbursement (i.e., beyond the reductions described below), or if the Company’s costs of production do not decrease to keep pace with decreases in reimbursement levels, the Company may be unable to sell the affected product(s) through its distribution channels on a profitable basis.I-18Table of ContentsReduced government reimbursement levels and changes in reimbursement policies have in the past added, and could continue to add, significant pressure to the Company’s revenues and profitability. For example, in 100 metropolitan areas, CMS introduced a national competitive bidding program (NCB) which set new, lower payment rates for medical equipment and supplies. Round one of NCB for nine metropolitan areas in the U.S. went into effect in January 2011. The reimbursement rates for nine product categories were reduced by an average of 32 percent in these nine metropolitan areas. Effective July 2013, CMS commenced round two of the NCB program, which was expanded to include an additional 91 metropolitan areas. CMS announced that Medicare reimbursement rates were cut an average of 45 percent for those providers participating in the round two of the NCB program. CMS announced that the NCB program has resulted in $202.1 million in savings in its first year of implementation in the nine metropolitan areas with significant savings primarily in oxygen and oxygen supplies, mail-order diabetic supplies and standard power wheelchairs. The CMS Office of the Actuary estimates that this program will save Medicare an estimated $25.8 billion, and beneficiaries an estimated $17.2 billion, over the next ten years. Similar trends and concerns are occurring in state Medicaid programs. These recent changes to reimbursement policies, and any additional unfavorable reimbursement policies or budgetary cuts that may be adopted in the future, could adversely affect the demand for the Company’s products by customers who depend on reimbursement from the government-funded programs. The percentage of the Company’s overall sales that are dependent on Medicare or other insurance programs may increase as the portion of the U.S. population over age 65 continues to grow, making the Company more vulnerable to reimbursement level reductions by these organizations. Reduced government reimbursement levels also could result in reduced private payor reimbursement levels because some third-party payors index their reimbursement schedules to Medicare fee schedules. Reductions in reimbursement levels also may affect the profitability of the Company’s customers and ultimately force some customers without strong financial resources to go out of business. The reimbursement reductions may prove to be so dramatic that some of the Company’s customers may not be able to adapt quickly enough to survive. The Company is the industry’s largest creditor and an increase in bankruptcies in the Company’s customer base could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial results.Outside the United States, reimbursement systems vary significantly by country. Many foreign markets have government-managed health care systems that govern reimbursement for new home health care products. The ability of hospitals and other providers supported by such systems to purchase the Company’s products is dependent, in part, upon public budgetary constraints. Various countries have tightened reimbursement rates and other countries may follow. If adequate levels of reimbursement from third-party payors outside of the United States are not obtained, international sales of the Company’s products may decline, which could adversely affect the Company’s net sales.The impact of all the changes discussed above is uncertain and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations.The adoption of healthcare reform and other legislative developments in the United States may adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations and/or financial condition.The Affordable Care Act includes provisions intended to expand access to health insurance coverage, improve the quality and reduce the costs of healthcare over time. Specifically, as one means to pay for the costs of the Affordable Care Act, the law imposes a 2.3% sales-based excise tax on U.S. sales by manufacturers or importers of most medical devices beginning January 1, 2013. The excise tax is deductible by the manufacturer or importer on its federal income tax return. The Company has determined that most of its products are exempt from the tax based on the retail exemption provided in the Affordable Care Act as defined by the regulations. However, certain products that it sells for institutional use are subject to the excise tax. Based on its interpretation of the regulations, the Company's impact from the tax was approximately $400,000 for 2013, the majority of which the Company was able to pass on to the market. However, the excise tax may increase the Company’s cost of doing business, particularly if the exemptions do not ultimately apply as the Company expects based on its interpretations of the regulations. Other provisions of this legislation include provisions to improve the quality of health care that can lower cost for beneficiaries. In 2012, Medicare Accountable Care Organizations (ACOs) began participating in the Medicare Shared Savings Program and the Pioneer Accountable Care Organization Model. These programs encourage providers to invest in redesigning care for higher quality and more efficient service delivery. CMS has published that Medicare ACOs participating in the Shared Savings Program generated $147 million in net savings for Medicare in their first year while continuing to deliver high quality care. The Affordable Care Act includes a number of policies to promote non-institutional long-term care programs that will help keep people at home and out of institutions. Forty-four states and the District of Columbia are now participating in the "Money Follows the Person Program" to help rebalance their long-term care systems to transition Medicaid beneficiaries from institutions to the community. Over 31,000 people with chronic conditions and disabilities have transitioned from institutions back into the community through Money Follows the Person programs as of December 2012. Seventeen states are participating in the "Balancing Incentive Program," which gives states incentives to increase access to non-institutional long-term services and supports and I-19Table of Contentsprovides new ways to serve more Medicaid beneficiaries in home and community-based settings. Fourteen states have approved Health Home State Plan Amendments to integrate and coordinate primary, acute, behavioral health, and long term services and supports for Medicaid beneficiaries. An additional Affordable Care Act program, "Independence at Home," tests whether providing chronically ill beneficiaries with primary care in the home will help them stay healthy and out of the hospital. Fifteen physician practices and three consortia of physician practices are participating in the Independence at Home Demonstration. The Affordable Care Act and the programs implemented by the law may reduce reimbursements for the Company's products, may impact the demand for the Company’s products and may impact the prices at which the Company sells its products. In addition, various healthcare programs and regulations may be ultimately implemented at the federal or state level. Such changes could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and/or financial condition.The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) enacted in 2010, and the rules and regulations enacted thereunder by the SEC and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), institute a wide range of reforms, certain of which may impact the Company. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act contains significant corporate governance and executive compensation-related provisions that authorize or require the SEC to adopt additional rules and regulations in these areas, such as shareholder “say on pay” voting and proxy access. The Dodd-Frank Act also provides for new statutory and regulatory requirements for derivative transactions, including foreign exchange and interest rate hedging transactions, and new requirements will be implemented over time. The Company enters into foreign exchange contracts, interest rate swaps and foreign currency forward contracts from time to time to manage its exposure to commodity price risk, foreign currency exchange risk and interest rate risk. The Company does not enter into derivative transactions for speculative purposes. Unless exempt, certain of these transactions, such as interest rate swaps and foreign exchange swaps, are required to be cleared by a registered derivatives clearing organization and subject to exchange trading requirements. If a derivative is required to be cleared, the Company would be subject to cash and securities initial and variation margin posting, increasing the cost to the Company of mitigating commercial risk and impacting its strategic hedging activity. The contractual counterparties in hedging arrangements are likewise subject to increased costs as a result of compliance with the Dodd-Frank Act and it is anticipated these costs will be passed on to their customers. Derivative activities are subject to further regulatory and rule making activities by the SEC and CFTC as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, creating uncertainty as to the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on the Company's business. The Company will continue to analyze the suitability of particular hedging arrangements and to invest appropriate resources to comply with both existing and evolving standards. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act contains provisions to improve transparency and accountability concerning the sourcing of “conflict minerals” from mines located in the conflict zones of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and its adjoining countries. The term “conflict minerals” currently encompasses tantalum, tin, tungsten (or their ores) and gold. Conflict minerals can be found in a vast array of products. This legislation requires manufacturers, such as the Company, to investigate and disclose their use of any conflict minerals originating in the DRC or adjoining countries. It also implements guidelines to assist the manufacturer in preventing, by way of performing due diligence in its supply chain, any such sourcing from, or potentially financing or benefiting, armed groups in this area. The initial conflict materials report is to be filed with the SEC by May 31, 2014. The Company may be required to undertake a significant due diligence process requiring considerable investments of human resources and finances in order to comply with the conflict minerals due diligence and disclosure requirements. If the Company's suppliers are unable or unwilling to provide it with requested information and to take other steps to ensure that there is no financing or benefiting of armed groups in the DRC and there are no conflict minerals included in materials or components supplied to the Company, it may be forced to disclose in its SEC filings about the use of conflict minerals in its supply chain, which may expose the Company to reputational risks, which in turn could materially adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations.If the Company’s cost reduction efforts are ineffective, the Company’s profitability could be negatively impacted.In response to reimbursement reductions and competitive pricing pressures, the Company continues to initiate numerous cost reduction and organizational efficiency efforts, including globalization of its product lines. The Company may not be successful in achieving the operating efficiencies and operating cost reductions expected from these efforts, and the Company may experience business disruptions associated with the restructuring and cost reduction activities. These efforts may not produce the full efficiency and cost reduction benefits that the Company expects. Further, these benefits may be realized later than expected, and the costs of implementing these measures may be greater than anticipated. If these measures are not successful, the Company may undertake additional cost reduction efforts, which could result in future charges. Moreover, the Company’s ability to achieve other strategic goals and business plans and the Company’s financial performance may be adversely affected and the Company could experience business disruptions with customers and elsewhere if the Company’s cost reduction and restructuring efforts prove ineffective.I-20Table of ContentsIf the Company's information technology systems fail, or if the Company experiences an interruption in the operation of its information technology systems, then the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.The Company relies upon the capacity, reliability and security of its information technology, or IT, systems across all of its major business functions, including research and development, manufacturing, sales, financial and administrative functions. Since the Company is geographically diverse, has various business segments and has grown over the years though various acquisitions, it also has many disparate versions of IT systems across its organization. As a result of these disparate IT systems, the Company faces the challenge of supporting older systems and implementing upgrades when necessary. The failure of the Company's information technology systems, whether resulting from the disparate versions of IT systems across its various segments, business functions or otherwise, its inability to successfully maintain, enhance and/or replace its information technology systems, or any compromise of the integrity or security of the data that is generated from information technology systems, or any shortcomings in the Company's disaster recovery platforms, could adversely affect the Company's results of operations, disrupt business and make the Company unable, or severely limit the Company's ability to respond to customer demands. In addition, the Company's information technology systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: earthquake, fire, flood and other natural disasters; employee or other theft; attacks by computer viruses or hackers; power outages; and computer systems, internet, telecommunications or data network failure.Any interruption of the Company's information technology systems could result in decreased revenue, increased expenses, increased capital expenditures, customer dissatisfaction and potential lawsuits, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations or financial condition. The industry in which the Company operates is highly competitive and some of the Company’s competitors may have greater financial resources than the Company does.The home medical equipment market is highly competitive and the Company’s products face significant competition from other well-established manufacturers. Reduced government reimbursement levels and changes in reimbursement policies, such as the National Competitive Bidding program implemented by CMS, may drive competitors, particularly those that have greater financial resources than the Company's to offer drastically reduced pricing terms in an effort to secure government acceptance of their products and pricing. Any increase in competition may cause the Company to lose market share or compel the Company to reduce prices to remain competitive, which could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s results of operations.The consolidation of health care customers and the Company’s competitors could result in a loss of customers or in additional competitive pricing pressures.Numerous initiatives and reforms instituted by legislators, regulators and third-party payors to reduce home medical equipment costs have resulted in a consolidation trend in the home medical equipment industry as well as among the Company’s customers, including home health care providers. In the past, some of the Company’s competitors have been lowering the purchase prices of their products in an effort to attract customers. This in turn has resulted in greater pricing pressures, including pressure to offer customers more competitive pricing terms, and the exclusion of certain suppliers from important market segments as group purchasing organizations, independent delivery networks and large single accounts continue to consolidate purchasing decisions for some of the Company’s customers. Further consolidation could result in a loss of customers, increased collectability risks, or increased competitive pricing pressures.The Company’s products are subject to recalls, which could be costly and harm the Company’s reputation and business.The Company is subject to ongoing medical device reporting regulations that require the Company to report to the FDA or similar governmental authorities in other countries if the Company’s products cause, or contribute to, death or serious injury, or if they malfunction and would be likely to cause, or contribute to, death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. The FDA and similar governmental authorities in other countries could force the Company to do a field correction or recall the Company’s products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacturing. In addition, in light of a deficiency, defect in design or manufacturing or defect in labeling, the Company may voluntarily elect to recall or correct the Company’s products. A government mandated or voluntary recall/field correction by the Company could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors or design defects, including defects in labeling. Any recall/field correction would divert managerial and financial resources and could harm the Company’s reputation with its customers, product users and the health care professionals that use, prescribe and recommend the Company’s products. The Company could have product recalls or field actions that result in significant costs to the Company in the future, and these actions could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. As an example, the Company's power wheelchair joystick recall has resulted in the recording an incremental warranty expense of $7,264,000 in 2013. The Company will continue to review the adequacy of the joystick recall accrual as the recall progresses.I-21Table of ContentsThe Company’s revenues and profits are subject to exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations that could adversely affect its results of operations or financial position.Currency exchange rates are subject to fluctuation due to, among other things, changes in local, regional or global economic conditions, the imposition of currency exchange restrictions and unexpected changes in regulatory or taxation environments. The functional currency of the Company’s subsidiaries outside the United States is the predominant currency used by the subsidiaries to transact business. Through the Company’s international operations, the Company is exposed to foreign currency fluctuations, and changes in exchange rates can have a significant impact on net sales and elements of cost. The Company conducts a significant number of transactions in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In addition, because certain of the Company’s costs and revenues are denominated in other currencies, the Company’s results of operations are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as the financial results of those operations are translated from local currency into U.S. dollars upon consolidation.The Company uses foreign exchange forward contracts primarily to help reduce its exposure to transactional exchange rate risk. Despite the Company’s efforts to mitigate these risks, however, the Company’s revenues and profitability may be materially adversely affected by exchange rate fluctuations. The Company does not have a meaningful way to hedge translation.The Company also is exposed to market risk through various financial instruments, including fixed rate and floating rate debt instruments. The Company does at times use interest rate swap contracts to mitigate its exposure to interest rate fluctuations, but those efforts may not adequately protect the Company from significant interest rate risks. Interest on much of the Company’s debt is based on the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), which is currently historically low. Increases in LIBOR could have a significant impact on the Company’s reported interest expense.The Company maintains cash balances globally in various financial institutions.While the Company monitors its accounts with financial institutions both domestically and internationally, recovery of funds cannot be assured in the event the financial institution would fail. In addition, the Company may be limited by foreign governments in the amount and timing of funds to be repatriated from foreign financial institutions. As a result, this could adversely impact the Company's ability to fund normal operations, capital expenditures, or service debt, which could adversely affect our results.The Company is subject to certain risks inherent in managing and operating businesses in many different foreign jurisdictions.The Company has significant international operations, including operations in Australia, Canada, New Zealand, Mexico, Asia (primarily China) and Europe. There are risks inherent in operating and selling products internationally, including:•different regulatory environments and reimbursement systems;•difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems;•foreign customers who may have longer payment cycles than customers in the United States;•fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates;•tax rates in certain foreign countries that may exceed those in the United States and foreign earnings that may be subject to withholding requirements;•the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other trade restrictions including transfer pricing restrictions when products produced in one country are sold to an affiliated entity in another country;•general economic and political conditions in countries where the Company operates or where end users of the Company’s products reside;•government control of capital transactions, including the borrowing of funds for operations or the expatriation of cash;•potential adverse tax consequences;•security concerns and potential business interruption risks associated with political and/or social unrest in foreign countries where the Company’s facilities or assets are located;•difficulties associated with managing a large organization spread throughout various countries;•difficulties in enforcing intellectual property rights and weaker intellectual property rights protection in some countries;•required compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations; and•differing consumer product preferences.I-22Table of ContentsThe factors described above also could disrupt the Company’s product manufacturing/assembling and key suppliers located outside of the United States. For example, the Company increasingly relies on its manufacturing and sourcing operations in China for the production of its products. Disruptions in the Company’s foreign operations, particularly those in China or Mexico, may impact the Company’s revenues and profitability.The Company may be adversely affected by legal actions or regulatory proceedings.In addition to the risks associated with the impact of the FDA consent decree, the Company may be subject to claims, litigation or other liabilities as a result of injuries caused by allegedly defective products, acquisitions the Company has completed or in the intellectual property area. Any such claims or litigation against the Company, regardless of the merits, could result in substantial costs and could harm the Company's business or its reputation. Intellectual property litigation or claims also could require the Company to: •cease manufacturing and selling any of the Company’s products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property;•obtain a license from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right alleged to have been infringed, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all; or•redesign or rename the Company’s products, which may not be possible, and could be costly and time consuming and could result in lost revenues and market share.The results of legal proceedings are difficult to predict and the Company cannot provide any assurance that an action or proceeding will not be commenced against the Company, or that the Company will prevail in any such action or proceeding. An unfavorable resolution of any legal action or proceeding could materially and adversely affect the Company's business, results of operations, liquidity or financial condition or its reputation. Product liability claims may harm the Company’s business, particularly if the number of claims increases significantly or the Company’s product liability insurance proves inadequate.The manufacture and sale of home health care devices and related products exposes the Company to a significant risk of product liability claims. From time to time, the Company has been, and is currently, subject to a number of product liability claims alleging that the use of the Company’s products has resulted in serious injury or even death.Even if the Company is successful in defending against any liability claims, these claims could nevertheless distract the Company’s management, result in substantial costs, harm the Company’s reputation, adversely affect the sales of all the Company’s products and otherwise harm the Company’s business. If there is a significant increase in the number of product liability claims, the Company’s business could be adversely affected.The Company is self-insured in North America for product liability exposures through its captive insurance company, Invatection Insurance Company, which currently has a policy year that runs from September 1 to August 31 and insures annual policy losses up to $10,000,000 per occurrence and $13,000,000 in the aggregate. The Company also has additional layers of external insurance coverage insuring up to $75,000,000 in aggregate losses per policy year arising from individual claims anywhere in the world that exceed the captive insurance company policy limits or the limits of the Company’s per country foreign liability limits, as applicable. There can be no assurance that the Company’s current insurance levels will continue to be adequate or available at affordable rates.Product liability reserves are recorded for individual claims based upon historical experience, industry expertise and indications from the third-party actuary. Additional reserves, in excess of the specific individual case reserves, are provided for incurred but not reported claims based upon actuarial valuations at the time such valuations are conducted. Historical claims experience and other assumptions are taken into consideration to estimate the ultimate reserves. For example, the actuarial analysis assumes that historical loss experience is an indicator of future experience, that the distribution of exposures by geographic area and nature of operations for ongoing operations is expected to be very similar to historical operations with no dramatic changes and that the government indices used to trend losses and exposures are appropriate. Estimates made are adjusted on a regular basis and can be impacted by actual loss awards and settlements on claims. While actuarial analysis is used to help determine adequate reserves, the Company is responsible for the determination and recording of adequate reserves in accordance with accepted loss reserving standards and practices.In addition, as a result of a product liability claim or if the Company’s products are alleged to be defective, the Company may have to recall some of its products, may have to incur significant costs or may suffer harm to its business reputation.I-23Table of ContentsDecreased availability or increased costs of raw materials could increase the Company’s costs of producing its products.The Company purchases raw materials, fabricated components, some finished goods and services from a variety of suppliers. Raw materials such as plastics, steel and aluminum are considered key raw materials. Where appropriate, the Company employs contracts with its suppliers, both domestic and international. In those situations in which contracts are not advantageous, the Company believes that its relationships with its suppliers are satisfactory and that alternative sources of supply are readily available. From time to time, however, the prices and availability of these raw materials fluctuate due to global market demands, which could impair the Company’s ability to procure necessary materials, or increase the cost of these materials. Inflationary and other increases in costs of these raw materials have occurred in the past and may recur from time to time. In addition, freight costs associated with shipping and receiving product and sales are impacted by fluctuations in the cost of oil and gas. A reduction in the supply or increase in the cost of those raw materials could impact the Company’s ability to manufacture its products and could increase the cost of production. Additionally, the Company may not be able to increase the prices of our products due to competitive pricing pressure or other factors. As an example, inflation in China has in the past and will probably in the future increase costs and an appreciation of the Yuan or an increase in labor rates could have an unfavorable impact on the cost of key components and some finished goods. Demand in China and other developing countries for raw materials may result in increases in the cost of key commodities and could have a negative impact on the profits of the Company if these increases cannot be passed onto the Company’s customers.Lower cost imports could negatively impact the Company’s profitability.Competition from lower cost imports sourced from low cost countries, such as Asia, may negatively impact the Company’s sales volumes. In the past, competition from certain of these products has caused the Company to lower its prices, cutting into the Company’s profit margins and reducing the Company’s overall profitability.The Company’s success depends on the Company’s ability to design, manufacture, distribute and achieve market acceptance of new products with higher functionality and lower costs.The Company sells products to customers primarily in markets that are characterized by technological change, product innovation and evolving industry standards, yet in which product price is increasingly a primary consideration in customers’ purchasing decisions. The Company historically has been engaged in product development and improvement programs. However, during 2012 and 2013 as a result of the FDA consent decree, which is described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the Company's engineering resources were focused primarily on quality remediation and not on the design of new products. The Company has received the FDA's approval to resume design activities at the impacted Elyria facilities and has started to refocus its engineering resources on new product development. The Company must continue to design and improve innovative products, effectively distribute and achieve market acceptance of those products, and reduce the costs of producing the Company’s products, in order to compete successfully with the Company’s competitors. If competitors’ product development capabilities become more effective than the Company’s product development capabilities, if competitors’ new or improved products are accepted by the market before the Company’s products or if competitors are able to produce products at a lower cost and thus offer products for sale at a lower price, the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operation could be adversely affected.The Company’s business strategy relies on certain assumptions concerning demographic trends that impact the market for its products. If these assumptions prove to be incorrect, demand for the Company’s products may be lower than expected.The Company’s ability to achieve its business objectives is subject to a variety of factors, including the relative increase in the aging of the general population. The Company believes that these trends will increase the need for its products. The projected demand for the Company’s products could materially differ from actual demand if the Company’s assumptions regarding these trends and acceptance of its products by health care professionals and patients prove to be incorrect or do not materialize. If the Company’s assumptions regarding these factors prove to be incorrect, the Company may not be able to successfully implement the Company’s business strategy, which could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. In addition, the perceived benefits of these trends may be offset by competitive or business factors, such as the introduction of new products by the Company’s competitors or the emergence of other countervailing trends, including lower reimbursement and pricing.The Company’s debt may limit the Company’s flexibility in operating its business.The Company's senior secured revolving credit agreement, as most recently amended on January 31, 2014, (the “Amended and Restated Credit Agreement”) has been a principal source of financing for much of its liquidity needs. As a result of the January 31, 2014 amendment, the capacity was reduced from $250,000,000 to $100,000,000. The credit facility contains, among I-24Table of Contentsother things, certain financial covenants that require the Company to maintain a maximum leverage ratio (consolidated funded indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA, as defined under the credit facility) of no greater than 4.75 to 1 for the first quarter of 2014 and gradually decreasing each quarter to 3.5 to 1 in the fourth quarter of 2014, and a minimum interest coverage ratio (consolidated EBITDA to consolidated interest charges, as defined under the credit facility) of no less than 3.5 to 1. In calculating the leverage ratio, the Company can only exclude cash restructuring charges up to a maximum of $20,000,000 from May 30, 2013 until the agreement expires in 2015. If the Company is unsuccessful in meeting these covenants or other, financial or operating covenants in its credit facility, it would result in a default which could trigger acceleration of, or the right to accelerate, the related debt. Because of cross-default provisions in the agreements and instruments governing certain of the Company's indebtedness, a default under the credit facility could result in a default under, and the acceleration of, certain other Company indebtedness. In addition, the Company's lenders would be entitled to proceed against the collateral securing the indebtedness. These covenants could materially and adversely affect the Company’s ability to finance its future operations or capital needs. Furthermore, they may restrict the Company’s ability to conduct and expand its business and pursue its business strategies. The Company’s ability to meet these financial ratios and financial condition tests can be affected by events beyond its control, including changes in general economic and business conditions, or they can be affected by government enforcement actions, such as, for example, adverse impacts from the FDA consent decree of injunction. If the Company were unsuccessful in meeting those, or other, financial or operating covenants in its credit facility, it would result in a default which could trigger acceleration of, or the right to accelerate, the related debt. The Company's ability to meet its liquidity needs will depend on many factors, including the operating performance of the business, the Company's ability to successfully complete in a timely manner the third-party expert certification audit and FDA inspection contemplated under the consent decree and receipt of the written notification from the FDA permitting the Company to resume full operations, as well as the Company's continued compliance with the covenants under its credit facility. Notwithstanding the Company's expectations, if the Company's operating results decline more than it currently anticipates, or if the Company is unable to successfully complete the final consent decree-related third-party expert certification audit and FDA inspection within the currently estimated time frame, the Company may be unable to comply with the financial covenants, and its lenders could demand repayment of the amounts outstanding under the Company's credit facility. As a result, continued compliance with the leverage covenant under the Company's credit facility is a high priority, which means the Company remains focused on generating sufficient cash and managing its expenditures. The Company also may examine alternatives such as raising additional capital through permitted asset sales. Such asset sales could be dilutive to the Company's results. In addition, if necessary or advisable, the Company may seek to renegotiate its credit facility in order to remain in compliance. The Company can make no assurances that under such circumstances its financing arrangements could be renegotiated, or that alternative financing would be available on terms acceptable to the Company, if at all. The Company also has an agreement with De Lage Landen, Inc. (“DLL”), a third party financing company, to provide the majority of future lease financing to Invacare's North America customers. Either party could terminate this agreement with 180 days notice or 90 days notice by DLL upon the occurrence of certain events. Should this agreement be terminated, the Company's borrowing under the credit agreement could increase.The Company's capital expenditures could be higher than anticipated.Unanticipated maintenance issues, changes in government regulations or significant investments in technology and new product development could result in higher than anticipated capital expenditures, which could impact our debt, interest expense and cash flows.The Company’s Chairman of the Board of Directors and certain members of management own shares representing a substantial percentage of the Company’s voting power and their interests may differ from other shareholders.The Company has two classes of common stock. The Common Shares have one vote per share and the Class B Common Shares have 10 votes per share. As of January 1, 2014, the Company’s chairman, Mr. A. Malachi Mixon, III, and certain members of management beneficially owned (including the right to acquire) approximately 34% of the combined voting power of the Company’s Common Shares and Class B Common Shares and could influence the outcome of a corporate transaction or other matter submitted to the shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of the Company’s assets. They also will have the power to influence or make more difficult a change in control. The interests of Mr. Mixon and his relatives may differ from the interests of the other shareholders, and they may take actions with which some shareholders may disagree.I-25Table of ContentsThe Company’s operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected if the Company becomes involved in litigation regarding its patents or other intellectual property rights.Litigation involving patents and other intellectual property rights is common in the Company’s industry, and other companies within the Company’s industry have used intellectual property litigation in an attempt to gain a competitive advantage. The Company in the past has been, and in the future may become, a party to lawsuits involving patents or other intellectual property. If the Company loses any of these proceedings, a court or a similar foreign governing body could invalidate or render unenforceable the Company’s owned or licensed patents, require the Company to pay significant damages, seek licenses and/or pay ongoing royalties to third parties, require the Company to redesign its products, or prevent the Company from manufacturing, using or selling its products, any of which would have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company in the past has brought, and may in the future also bring, actions against third parties for infringement of the Company’s intellectual property rights. The Company may not succeed in these actions. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits, proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or its foreign equivalents and related legal and administrative proceedings are both costly and time consuming. Protracted litigation to defend or prosecute the Company’s intellectual property rights could seriously detract from the time the Company’s management would otherwise devote to running its business. Intellectual property litigation relating to the Company’s products could cause its customers or potential customers to defer or limit their purchase or use of the affected products until resolution of the litigation.If the Company is unable to protect its intellectual property rights or resolve successfully claims of infringement brought against it, the Company's product sales and business could be affected adversely.The Company's business depends in part on its ability to establish, protect, safeguard and enforce its intellectual property and contractual rights and to defend against any claims of infringement, both of which involve complex legal, factual and marketplace uncertainties. The Company relies on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark law and security measures to protect its intellectual property, but effective intellectual property protection may not be available in all places that the Company sells its products or services, particularly in certain foreign jurisdictions. In addition, the Company uses nondisclosure, confidentiality agreements and invention assignment agreements with many of its employees, and nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements with certain third parties, in an effort to help protect its proprietary technology and know-how. If these agreements are breached or the Company's intellectual property is otherwise misappropriated, the Company may have to rely on litigation to enforce its intellectual property rights. If any of these measures are unsuccessful in protecting the Company's intellectual property, the Company's business may be affected adversely. In addition, the Company may face claims of infringement that could interfere with its ability to use technology or other intellectual property rights that are material to the Company's business operations. In the event that a claim of infringement against the Company is successful, the Company may be required to pay royalties or license fees to continue to use technology or other intellectual property rights that the Company was using, or the Company may be unable to obtain necessary licenses from third parties at a reasonable cost or within a reasonable time. If the Company is unable to obtain licenses on reasonable terms, it may be forced to cease selling or using the products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property, or to redesign or, in the case of trademark claims, rename its products to avoid infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may not be possible, or if possible, may be time-consuming. Any litigation of this type, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs to the Company and adversely affect the Company's business and financial condition.The Company also holds patent and other intellectual property licenses from third parties for some of its products and on technologies that are necessary in the design and manufacture of some of the Company's products. The loss of these licenses could prevent the Company from, or could cause additional disruption or expense in, manufacturing, marketing and selling these products, which could harm the Company's business. The Company’s research and development and manufacturing processes are subject to federal, state, local and foreign environmental requirements.The Company’s research and development and manufacturing processes are subject to federal, state, local and foreign environmental requirements, including requirements governing the discharge of pollutants into the air or water, the use, handling, storage and disposal of hazardous substances and the responsibility to investigate and clean up contaminated sites. Under some of these laws, the Company also could be held responsible for costs relating to any contamination at the Company’s past or present facilities and at third-party waste disposal sites. These could include costs relating to contamination that did not result from any violation of law and, in some circumstances, contamination that the Company did not cause. The Company may incur significant expenses relating to the failure to comply with environmental laws. The enactment of stricter laws or regulations, the stricter interpretation of existing laws and regulations or the requirement to undertake the investigation or remediation of currently I-26Table of Contentsunknown environmental contamination at the Company’s own or third-party sites may require the Company to make additional expenditures, which could be material.Since the Company’s ability to obtain further financing may be limited, the Company may be unable to make strategic acquisitions.The Company’s plans typically include identifying, analyzing, acquiring, and integrating other strategic businesses. There are various reasons for the Company to acquire businesses or product lines, including providing new products or new manufacturing and service capabilities, to add new customers, to increase penetration with existing customers, and to expand into new geographic markets. The Company’s ability to successfully grow through acquisitions depends upon its ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate suitable acquisitions and to obtain any necessary financing. The costs of acquiring other businesses could increase if competition for acquisition candidates increases. Further, the provisions of the Company’s existing credit facility impose limitations regarding acquisitions, which could prevent significant acquisitions, without entering into amendments with regard to those provisions. If the Company is unable to obtain the necessary financing, it may miss opportunities to grow its business through strategic acquisitions.Additionally, the success of the Company’s acquisition strategy is subject to other risks and costs, including the following:•the Company’s ability to realize operating efficiencies, synergies, or other benefits expected from an acquisition, and possible delays in realizing the benefits of the acquired Company or products;•diversion of management’s time and attention from other business concerns;•difficulties in retaining key employees of the acquired businesses who are necessary to manage these businesses;•difficulties in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies throughout acquired companies;•adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers or customers;•the risks associated with the assumption of contingent or undisclosed liabilities of acquisition targets; and•ability to generate future cash flows or the availability of financing.In addition, an acquisition could materially impair the Company’s operating results by causing the Company to incur debt or requiring the amortization of acquisition expenses and acquired assets.Additional tax expense or additional tax exposures could affect the Company's future profitability, cash flow and compliance with debt covenants. The Company is subject to income taxes in both the United States and various non-U.S. jurisdictions. The domestic and international tax liabilities are dependent upon the distribution of income among these different jurisdictions. The Company's tax expense includes estimates of additional tax which may be incurred for tax exposures and reflects various estimates and assumptions. In addition, the assumptions include assessments of future earnings of the Company that could impact the valuation of its deferred tax assets. The Company’s future results of operations could be adversely affected by changes in the effective tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the overall profitability of the Company, changes in tax legislation and rates, changes in generally accepted accounting principles, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns and continuing assessments of its tax exposures. Corporate tax reform and tax law changes continue to be analyzed in the United States and in many other jurisdictions.The Company’s reported results may be adversely affected by increases in reserves for uncollectible accounts receivable.The Company has a large balance of accounts receivable and has established a reserve for the portion of such accounts receivable that the Company estimates will not be collected because of the Company’s customers’ non-payment. The specific reserve is based on historical trends and current relationships with the Company’s customers and providers. Changes in the Company’s collection rates can result from a number of factors, including turnover in personnel, changes in the payment policies or practices of payors, changes in industry rates or pace of reimbursement or changes in the financial health of the Company’s customers. As a result of past changes in Medicare reimbursement regulations, specifically changes to the qualification processes and reimbursement levels of consumer power wheelchairs and custom power wheelchairs, the business viability of several of the Company’s customers had become questionable and several have failed. Further, as National Competitive Bidding is implemented in additional areas, the number of start-up or new providers who have three-year contracted pricing will increase. The Company’s reserve for uncollectible receivables has fluctuated in the past and will continue to fluctuate in the future. Changes in rates of collection, even if they are small in absolute terms, could require the Company to increase its reserve for uncollectible receivables beyond its current level. The Company has reviewed the accounts receivables, including those receivables financed through DLL, associated with many of its customers that are most exposed to these issues. If the business viability of certain of the Company’s I-27Table of Contentscustomers deteriorates or the Company’s credit policies are ineffective in reducing the Company’s exposures to credit risk, additional increases in reserves for uncollectible accounts may be necessary, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial results.The loss of the services of the Company’s key management and personnel could adversely affect its ability to operate the Company’s business.The Company’s future success will depend, in part, upon the continued service of key managerial, research and development staff and sales and technical personnel. In addition, the Company’s future success will depend on its ability to continue to attract and retain other highly qualified personnel, including personnel experienced in quality systems and regulatory affairs. If the Company is not successful in retaining its current personnel or in hiring or retaining qualified personnel in the future, the Company’s business may be adversely affected. The Company’s future success depends, to a significant extent, on the abilities and efforts of its executive officers and other members of its management team. If the Company loses the services of any of its management team, the Company’s business may be adversely affected.Certain provisions of the Company’s debt agreements, its charter documents, its shareholder rights plan and Ohio law could delay or prevent the sale or change in control of the Company.Provisions of the Company’s debt agreements, its charter documents, its shareholder rights plan and Ohio law may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or attempt to acquire, control of the Company even if a change in control would result in the purchase of shares of the Company at a premium to market price. In addition, these provisions may limit the ability of shareholders of the Company to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interest.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.Not applicable.