Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K, the following are important factors which could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of us. A significant portion of our business depends upon non-recurring event clean-up projects over which we have no control. A significant portion of our disposal revenue is attributable to Event Business which varies substantially in size and duration. For the year ended December 31, 2006, approximately 52% of our treatment and disposal revenues were derived from Event Business projects. The one-time nature of Event Business necessarily creates variability in revenue and earnings. The timing of Event Business is generally out of our control and cannot be forecast with precision. Event Business projects may be delayed by customer funding restrictions, changes in laws and regulations, public controversy, litigation, weather and other factors. As a result, we can experience significant quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year swings in revenue, gross profit, gross margin, operating income and net income. The uncertainty inherent to Event Business affects internal budgeting and externally communicated business projections. For example, we entered 2007 with approximately 27% of our Board approved revenue budget comprised of unknown new business. A reduction in the number and size of new clean-up projects won to replace completed work could produce a material adverse affect on our business. While we seek to expand our recurring Base Business, growth in this area generally depends on our ability to take market share from competitors. The loss of one or more significant customers or contracts could adversely affect our profitability. Honeywell and the USACE are under multiple year contracts which accounted for approximately 38% and 10% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006, respectively. Honeywell and USACE have contracts with us to provide waste services through 2009. In October 2005, Honeywell stopped shipments and also filed a motion in U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey to reduce the amount of material removed from the site by 53%. This motion was unsuccessful and Honeywell shipments resumed in April 2006. Shipments have continued at expected levels since that time. The Honeywell Jersey City project is estimated to ship approximately 1.2 million tons of waste to our Grand View, Idaho facility through November 2009. As of December 31, 2006, we have disposed of approximately 25% of the total estimated waste under this contract. While we believe that the USACE will contract for our services for the duration of the Formerly Utilized Site Remedial Action Program (“FUSRAP”) through approximately 2016, this cannot be assured. Our contract with the USACE does not guarantee any future funding. Reduced appropriations for the USACE and other government clean-up work could have a material adverse affect on our business. A loss of these or other large contracts combined with failure to replace them with similar contracts could significantly reduce our revenue resulting in a material adverse affect on our results of operations. Loss of key management or sales personnel could harm our business. We have an experienced management team and rely on the continued service of our senior managers to achieve our objectives. We also have a senior sales team with industry experience averaging over 15 years. Our objective is to retain our present management and sales teams and identify, hire, train, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel. The loss of any key management employee or sales personnel could adversely affect our business and results of operations. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations our business could be adversely affected. The changing regulatory framework governing our business creates significant risks. We could be liable if our operations cause environmental damage to our properties or to the properties of others, particularly due to 13 Table of Contents contamination of air, drinking water or soil. Under current law, we may be held liable for damage caused by conditions that existed before we acquired the assets or operations involved. Also, we may be liable if we arrange for the transportation, disposal or treatment of hazardous substances that cause environmental contamination at facilities operated by others, or if a predecessor made such arrangements and we are a successor. Liability for environmental damage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Stringent government regulations of federal, state and local governments have a substantial impact on our business. Many complex, laws rules, orders and interpretations govern environmental protection, health, safety, land use, zoning, transportation and related matters. Failure to timely obtain or comply with applicable federal, state and local governmental licenses, permits or approvals for our waste treatment and disposal facilities could prevent or restrict our ability to provide certain services, resulting in a potentially significant loss of revenue and earnings. Changes in environmental regulations may require us to make significant capital or other expenditures. Changes in laws or regulations or changes in the enforcement or interpretation of existing laws and regulations may require us to modify existing operating licenses or permits, or obtain additional approvals. New governmental requirements that raise compliance standards or require changes in operating practices or technology may impose significant costs. Our revenues are primarily generated as a result of requirements imposed on our customers under federal and state laws, and regulations to protect public health and the environment. If requirements to comply with laws and regulations governing management of PCB, hazardous and/or radioactive waste were relaxed or less vigorously enforced, demand for our services could materially decrease and our revenues and earnings could be significantly reduced. We may not be able to obtain timely or cost effective transportation services which could adversely affect our profitability. Revenue at each of our facilities is subject to potential risks from disruptions in rail or truck transportation services which are relied upon to deliver waste to our facilities. Unforeseen events such as increases in fuel costs, strikes, public health pandemics, natural disasters and other acts of God, war, or terror could prevent or delay shipments and reduce both volumes and revenue. Our rail transportation service agreements with our customers generally allow us to pass on fuel surcharges assessed by the railroads, which minimize our exposure to fuel cost increases. Transportation services may be limited by economic conditions, including increased demand for rail or trucking services, resulting in periods of slower service to the point that individual customer needs cannot be met. No assurance can be given that we can procure transportation services in a timely manner at competitive rates. Such factors could also limit our ability to implement our growth plan and increase revenue and earnings. If we are unable to obtain at a reasonable cost the necessary levels of insurance and financial assurances required for operations, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. We are required by law, license, permit, and prudence to maintain various insurance instruments and financial assurances. We carry a broad range of insurance coverages that are customary for a company of our size. We use these coverages to mitigate risk of loss, thereby allowing us to manage our self-insured exposure associated with any claims. We are self-insured for employee health-care coverage. Stop-loss insurance is carried, which assumes liability for claims in excess of $100,000 per individual or on an aggregate basis for the monthly population. Accrued costs related to the self-insured health care coverage amounted to $170,000 and $163,000 at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We also maintain a Pollution and Remediation Legal Liability Policy pursuant to RCRA regulations subject to a $250,000 self-insured retention. In addition, we are insured for consultant’s environmental liability subject to a $100,000 self-insured retention. To the extent our insurances were unable to meet their obligations, or our own obligations for claims were more than we estimated, there could be a material adverse effect to our financial condition and results of operation. Through December 31, 2006, we have met our financial assurance requirements through insurance. Our current closure and post-closure policies were renewed in December 2005 and expire in December 2008. This renewal required us to self-fund $4.5 million of non-operating site closure and post-closure liability and provide 14 Table of Contents collateral equal to 15% of financial assurance through the term of the policy. We currently have in place all financial assurance instruments necessary for our operations. While we expect to continue renewing these policies, if we were unable to obtain adequate closure, post-closure or environmental insurance in the future, any partially or completely uninsured claim against us, if successful and of sufficient magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, continued access to casualty and pollution legal liability insurance with sufficient limits, at acceptable terms, is important to obtaining new business. Failure to maintain adequate financial assurance could also result in regulatory action including early closure of facilities. As of December 31, 2006, we have provided collateral of $4.7 million in funded trust agreements and issued $5.0 million in letters of credit for financial assurance insurance policies of approximately $31 million for closure and post-closure obligations. While we believe we will be able to maintain the requisite financial assurance policies at a reasonable cost, premium and collateral requirements may materially increase which could have a material adverse effect on our financial statements and results of operations. Our market is highly competitive. Failure to compete successfully could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. We face competition from companies with much greater resources, more diverse service offerings and potentially lower pricing. An increase in the number of commercial treatment or disposal facilities for hazardous or radioactive waste in the United States, or a decrease in the treatment or disposal fees charged by competitors could negatively affect our results of operations. Our business is also heavily affected by waste tipping fees. These fees, which vary from state to state, are periodically adjusted. Such adjustments may significantly impact the competitive environment in which we conduct business either positively or negatively. The hazardous and radioactive waste industry in which we operate is subject to litigation risk. We routinely handle radioactive, PCB and hazardous materials. This subjects us to potential liability claims by employees, contractors and others. There can be no assurance that our existing liability insurance is adequate to cover claims asserted against us or that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future. Adverse rulings in legal matters could also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Adverse general economic conditions, government funding or competitive pressures affecting our customers could harm our business. We serve refineries, chemical production plants, steel mills and other basic industries that are, or may be, affected by general economic conditions and competition. These industries may curtail waste production and/or delay spending on plant maintenance, waste clean-up work and other discretionary projects. Market forces may compel our customers to cease operations, which could adversely affect our business. Also, approximately 10% of our total revenue was generated from the USACE. Our contract with the USACE does not guarantee any future funding. Reduced appropriations for the USACE and other government clean-up work requiring our services could have a material adverse affect on our business. Our operations are significantly affected by the commencement and completion of major site remedial projects; cleanup of major spills or other events; seasonal fluctuations due to weather and budgetary cycles influencing the timing of customer spending for remedial activities; the timing of regulatory decisions relating to hazardous waste management projects; changes in regulations governing hazardous waste; the propensity for delays in the remedial market; and changes in the myriad of governmental regulations governing our diverse operations. We do not control such factors and, as a result, our revenue and income can vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter, and past financial performance for certain quarters may not be a reliable indicator of future performance for comparable quarters in subsequent years. If we are unable to obtain timely regulatory approvals to construct additional disposal space by the time our current disposal capacity is exhausted, our business would be adversely affected. Construction of future, non-permitted disposal cells at our operating disposal facilities sites beyond currently permitted capacity requires state regulatory agency approvals. While we have had success obtaining approvals in a 15 Table of Contents timely manner in the past, we cannot provide assurances that we will continue to obtain such approvals in a timely manner or at all. Our business requires the handling of potentially dangerous substances. Improper handling of such substances could result in an adverse impact on our business. We are subject to unexpected occurrences related, or unrelated, to the routine handling of dangerous substances. A fire or other incident, such as the fire in 2004 in our Robstown, Texas waste treatment building, could impair one or more facilities from performing their normal operations. This could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, improper handling of these substances could violate laws and regulations resulting in a suspension of operations. Failure to perform under our contracts may adversely harm our business. Certain contracts, including our Honeywell Jersey City project contract, require us to meet qualitative and quantitative performance criteria. Our ability to meet these criteria requires that we expend significant resources. If we are unable to perform as required, we could be subject to substantial monetary penalties and/or loss of the affected contracts. We may not be able or willing to pay future dividends. Our ability to pay dividends is subject to certain conditions such as continued compliance with bank covenants. The Board of Directors must also approve any dividends and such approval is solely at their discretion. Pursuant to our credit agreement, we may only declare quarterly or annual dividends if on the date of declaration no event of default has occurred, no other event or condition that upon notice or continuation would constitute a default and the payment of the dividend will not result in a default. Numerous unforeseen events or situations could cause us to no longer comply with these bank covenants, or cause the Board of Directors to discontinue or reduce the payment of dividends. Integration of potential acquisitions may impose substantial costs and delays and cause other unanticipated adverse impacts. Potential acquisitions involve a number of risks. If we are unable to successfully integrate the operations of an acquired business into our operations, this could have a material adverse effect on our business. These risks include, but are not limited to: • the need to spend substantial operational, financial and management resources integrating new businesses, technologies and processes, and difficulties integrating the operations, personnel or systems of the acquired business; • retention of key personnel and customers of the acquired business; • impairments of goodwill and other intangible assets; and • contingent environmental liabilities associated with past operations of an acquired business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 16 Table of Contents 