1A. Risk Factors.The company’s business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. One should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this annual report on Form 10-K and in the company’s other filings with the SEC, before making any investment decision with respect to the company’s securities. The risks and uncertainties described below may not be the only ones the company faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known by the company or that the company currently deems immaterial may also affect the company’s business. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occur, develop or worsen, the company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects could change substantially.The company has received a proposed consent decree of injunction from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”), the effects of which could be costly to the company and could result in adverse consequences to the company's business.The company received inspectional observations (known as FDA Form-483s) in connection with inspections in 2010 and 2011 of its corporate facility and its wheelchair manufacturing facility in Elyria, Ohio. In December 2011, the FDA requested that the company agree to a consent decree of injunction at the company's corporate facility and its wheelchair manufacturing facility in Elyria, Ohio, the proposed terms of which would require the suspension of certain operations at those facilities until they are certified by the company and then determined by the FDA to be in compliance with FDA quality system regulations. The company is in the process of negotiating with the FDA on the terms of the consent decree. While the final terms of the consent decree have not been determined, they will result in the suspension of a portion, which could be substantial, of the company's operations at its wheelchair manufacturing facility in Elyria, Ohio. The duration of any such suspension would be dependent upon the company's ability to certify its compliance with FDA regulations and then the FDA's determination of such compliance. A suspension of operations likely would have adverse effects on the company's business, including loss of revenues, harm to the company's reputation and customer dissatisfaction. The company also is devoting additional substantial financial, management and engineering resources to making the systemic improvements necessary to comply with the terms of the consent decree and maintain compliance in the future. The company's diversion of resources could impact other areas of the company's business, such as, for example, delays in new product development and cost reduction and globalization activities. All of these factors could result in material adverse consequences to the company's business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition, and results of operations. The company is cooperating with the FDA in attempting to negotiate the final terms of the consent decree. However, there can be no assurance that negotiations will conclude with mutually agreeable terms of the consent decree which could lead the FDA to pursue judicial, legal or other enforcement action against the company. Such enforcement could include requiring restrictions on the manufacturing, sale or distribution of the company's products, product recalls, or the payment of fines or penalties, which enforcement could result in material adverse consequences to the company's business, performance, prospects, value, financial I-14Table of Contentscondition, and results of operations. The company’s failure to comply with medical device regulatory requirements or receive regulatory clearance or approval for the company’s products or operations in the United States or abroad could adversely affect the company’s business.The company’s medical devices are subject to extensive regulation in the United States by the FDA, and by similar governmental authorities in the foreign countries where the company does business. The FDA regulates virtually all aspects of a medical device’s development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, promotion, distribution and marketing. In addition, the company is required to file reports with the FDA if the company’s products cause, or contribute to, death or serious injury, or if they malfunction and would be likely to cause, or contribute to, death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. In general, unless an exemption applies, the company’s mobility and respiratory therapy medical devices must receive a pre-marketing clearance from the FDA before they can be marketed in the United States. The FDA also regulates the export of medical devices to foreign countries. The company cannot be assured that any of the company’s devices, to the extent required, will be cleared by the FDA through the pre-market clearance process or that the FDA will provide export certificates that are necessary to export certain of the company’s products. In connection with the FDA warning letter received by the company in December 2010, the FDA has refused to provide new export certificates for company products until the matters covered in the warning letter are resolved.Additionally, the company may be required to obtain pre-marketing clearances to market modifications to the company’s existing products or market its existing products for new indications. The FDA requires device manufacturers themselves to make and document a determination as to whether or not a modification requires a new clearance; however, the FDA can review and disagree with a manufacturer’s decision. The company has applied for, and received, a number of such clearances in the past. The company may not be successful in receiving clearances in the future or the FDA may not agree with the company’s decisions not to seek clearances for any particular device modification. The FDA may require a clearance for any past or future modification or a new indication for the company’s existing products. Such submissions may require the submission of additional data and may be time consuming and costly, and ultimately may not be cleared by the FDA.If the FDA requires the company to obtain pre-marketing clearances for any modification to a previously cleared device, the company may be required to cease manufacturing and marketing the modified device or to recall the modified device until the company obtains FDA clearance and the company may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties. In addition, the FDA may not clear these submissions in a timely manner, if at all. The FDA also may change its policies, adopt additional regulations or revise existing regulations, each of which could prevent or delay pre-market clearance of the company’s devices, or could impact the company’s ability to market a device that was previously cleared. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect the company’s business.The company’s failure to comply with the regulatory requirements of the FDA and other applicable U.S. regulatory requirements may subject the company to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions. These sanctions include warning letters, civil penalties, criminal penalties, injunctions, consent decrees, product seizure or detention, product recalls and total or partial suspension of production.As part of its regulatory function, the FDA routinely inspects the sites of medical device companies, and in 2010 and 2011, the FDA inspected certain of the company's facilities. In December 2011, the FDA requested that the company agree to a consent decree of injunction at the company's corporate facility and its wheelchair manufacturing facility in Elyria, Ohio. See the previous Risk Factor regarding the FDA consent decree. In addition, in December 2010, the company received a warning letter from the FDA related to quality system processes and procedures at the company's Sanford, Florida facility. The company is taking these issues very seriously and has added resources to ensure it is addressing all of the FDA's concerns in a timely manner. However, the results of regulatory claims, proceedings, investigations, or litigation are difficult to predict. An unfavorable resolution or outcome of the FDA warning letter or consent decree of injunction could materially and adversely affect the company's business, financial condition, and results of operations.In many of the foreign countries in which the company markets its products, the company is subject to extensive medical device regulations that are similar to those of the FDA, including those in Europe. The regulation of the company’s products in Europe falls primarily within the European Economic Area, which consists of the 27 member states of the European Union, as well as Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway. Only medical devices that comply with certain conformity requirements of the Medical Device Directive are allowed to be marketed within the European Economic Area. In addition, the national health or social security organizations of certain foreign countries, including those outside Europe, require the company’s products to be qualified before they can be marketed in those countries. Failure to receive or delays in the receipt of, relevant foreign qualifications in the European Economic Area or other foreign countries could have a material adverse effect on the company’s business.I-15Table of ContentsBeing in the health care industry, the company is subject to extensive government regulation, and if the company fails to comply with applicable health care laws or regulations, the company could suffer severe civil or criminal sanctions or be required to make significant changes to the company’s operations that could have a material adverse effect on the company’s results of operations.The company sells its products principally to medical equipment and home health care providers who resell or rent those products to consumers. Many of those providers (the company’s customers) are reimbursed for the Invacare products sold to their customers and patients by third-party payors, including Medicare and Medicaid. The U.S. federal government and the governments in the states and other countries in which the company operates regulate many aspects of the company’s business. As a part of the health care industry, the company is subject to extensive government regulation, including numerous laws directed at preventing fraud and abuse and laws regulating reimbursement under various government programs. The marketing, invoicing, documenting and other practices of health care suppliers and manufacturers are all subject to government scrutiny. Government agencies periodically open investigations and obtain information from health care suppliers and manufacturers pursuant to the legal process. Violations of law or regulations can result in severe administrative, civil and criminal penalties and sanctions, including disqualification from Medicare and other reimbursement programs, which could have a material adverse effect on the company’s business. While the company has established numerous policies and procedures to address compliance with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that the company's efforts will be effective to prevent a material adverse effect on the company’s business from noncompliance issues.The company received a subpoena in 2006 from the U.S. Department of Justice seeking documents relating to three long-standing and well-known promotional and rebate programs maintained by the company. The company believes that the programs described in the subpoena are in compliance with all applicable laws and the company has cooperated fully with the government investigation. As of February 2012, the subpoena remains pending. See also the previous two Risk Factors regarding the FDA's regulatory enforcement actions.Health care is an area of rapid regulatory change. Changes in the law and new interpretations of existing laws may affect permissible activities, the costs associated with doing business, and reimbursement amounts paid by federal, state and other third-party payors. The company cannot predict the future of federal, state and local regulation or legislation, including Medicare and Medicaid statutes and regulations, or possible changes in health care policies in any country in which the company conducts business. Future legislation and regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on the company’s business.Changes in government and other third-party payor reimbursement levels and practices have negatively impacted and could continue to negatively impact the company’s revenues and profitability.The company’s products are sold primarily through a network of medical equipment and home health care providers, extended care facilities, hospital and HMO-based stores and other providers. In addition, the company sells directly to various government providers throughout the world. Many of these providers (the company’s customers) are reimbursed for the products and services provided to their customers and patients by third-party payors, such as government programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, private insurance plans and managed care programs. Most of these programs set maximum reimbursement levels for some of the products sold by the company in the United States and abroad. If third-party payors deny coverage, make the reimbursement process or documentation requirements more uncertain or further reduce their current levels of reimbursement (i.e., beyond the reductions described below), or if the company’s costs of production do not decrease to keep pace with decreases in reimbursement levels, the company may be unable to sell the affected product(s) through its distribution channels on a profitable basis.Reduced government reimbursement levels and changes in reimbursement policies have in the past added, and could continue to add, significant pressure to the company’s revenues and profitability. For example, CMS introduced national competitive bidding for nine metropolitan areas in the U.S., which went into effect in January 2011. The reimbursement rates for nine product categories were reduced by an average of 32 percent in these nine metropolitan areas. CMS is currently scheduled to expand the NCB program to an additional 91 metropolitan areas in July 2013.Similar trends and concerns are occurring in state Medicaid programs. These recent changes to reimbursement policies, and any additional unfavorable reimbursement policies or budgetary cuts that may be adopted in the future, could adversely affect the demand for the company’s products by customers who depend on reimbursement from the government-funded programs. The percentage of the company’s overall sales that are dependent on Medicare or other insurance programs may increase as the portion of the U.S. population over age 65 continues to grow, making the company more vulnerable to reimbursement level reductions by these organizations. Reduced government reimbursement levels also could result in reduced private payor reimbursement levels because some third-party payors index their reimbursement schedules to Medicare fee schedules. Reductions in reimbursement levels also may affect the profitability of the company’s customers and ultimately force some customers without strong financial I-16Table of Contentsresources to go out of business. The reimbursement reductions may prove to be so dramatic that some of the company’s customers may not be able to adapt quickly enough to survive. The company is the industry’s largest creditor and an increase in bankruptcies in the company’s customer base could have an adverse effect on the company’s financial results.Outside the United States, reimbursement systems vary significantly by country. Many foreign markets have government-managed health care systems that govern reimbursement for new home health care products. The ability of hospitals and other providers supported by such systems to purchase the company’s products is dependent, in part, upon public budgetary constraints. Various countries have tightened reimbursement rates and other countries may follow. If adequate levels of reimbursement from third-party payors outside of the United States are not obtained, international sales of the company’s products may decline, which could adversely affect the company’s net sales.The impact of all the changes discussed above is uncertain and could have a material adverse effect on the company’s business, financial condition and results of operations.The adoption of healthcare reform and other legislative developments in the United States may adversely affect the company’s business, results of operations and/or financial condition.In March 2010, significant reforms to the healthcare system were adopted as law in the United States under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. The law includes provisions that, among other things, reduce and/or limit Medicare reimbursement, require all individuals to have health insurance (with limited exceptions) and impose new and/or increased taxes. Specifically, the law imposes a 2.3% sales-based excise tax on U.S. sales by manufacturers of most medical devices beginning in 2013. The excise tax will be deductible by the manufacturer on its federal income tax return. The excise tax will not apply to medical devices that the Secretary of Treasury determines are generally purchased by the general public at retail for individual use. In January 2012, the Department of the Treasury issued guidance on the definition of a taxable medical device related to the excise tax. While the company believes a portion of its products will be exempt from the excise tax under the retail exemption, it is still in the process of fully analyzing the implications of the excise tax by the Department of the Treasury. The company intends to respond to the IRS and the Treasury Department to seek additional clarity on the proposed regulations. Various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level. The new law and these proposals could impact the demand for the company’s products or the prices at which the company sells its products. In addition, the excise tax may increase the company’s cost of doing business. The impact of this law and these proposals could have a material adverse effect on the company’s business, results of operations and/or financial condition.The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Act”) enacted in 2010 institutes a wide range of reforms, some of which may impact the company. Among other things, the Act contains significant corporate governance and executive compensation-related provisions that authorize or require the SEC to adopt additional rules and regulations in these areas, such as shareholder “say on pay” voting and proxy access. The impact of these provisions on the company’s business is uncertain. The Act also provides for new statutory and regulatory requirements for derivative transactions, including foreign exchange and interest rate hedging transactions. Certain transactions will be required to be cleared on exchanges, and cash collateral will be required for those transactions. While the Act provides for a potential exception from these clearing and cash collateral requirements for commercial end-users such as the company, the exception is subject to future rule making and interpretation by regulatory authorities. The company enters into foreign exchange contracts, interest rate swaps and foreign currency forward contracts from time to time to manage its exposure to commodity price risk, foreign currency exchange risk and interest rate risk. If, in the future, the company is required to provide cash collateral for its hedging transactions, it could reduce the company’s ability to execute strategic hedges. In addition, the contractual counterparties in hedging arrangements will be required to comply with the Act’s new requirements, which could ultimately result in increased costs of these arrangements to customers such as the company.If the company’s cost reduction efforts are ineffective, the company’s revenues and profitability could be negatively impacted.In response to reimbursement reductions and competitive pricing pressures, the company continues to initiate numerous cost reduction and organizational efficiency efforts, including globalization of its product lines. The company may not be successful in achieving the operating efficiencies and operating cost reductions expected from these efforts, and the company may experience business disruptions associated with the restructuring and cost reduction activities. These efforts may not produce the full efficiency and cost reduction benefits that the company expects. Further, these benefits may be realized later than expected, and the costs of implementing these measures may be greater than anticipated. If these measures are not successful, the company may undertake additional cost reduction efforts, which could result in future charges. Moreover, the company’s ability to achieve other strategic goals and business plans and the company’s financial performance may be adversely affected and the company could experience business disruptions with customers and elsewhere if the company’s cost reduction and restructuring efforts prove ineffective.I-17Table of ContentsThe company is subject to risks arising out of the continuing global economic uncertainty.As is the case for many companies operating in the current economic environment, the company is exposed to a number of risks. These risks include the possibility that: one or more of the lenders participating in the company’s revolving credit facility may be unable or unwilling to extend credit to the company; the third party company that provides lease financing to the company’s customers may refuse or be unable to fulfill its financing obligations or extend credit to the company’s customers; one or more customers of the company may be unable to pay for purchases of the company’s products on a timely basis; one or more key suppliers may be unable or unwilling to provide critical goods or services to the company; and one or more of the counterparties to the company’s hedging arrangements may be unable to fulfill its obligations to the company. Although the company has taken actions in an effort to mitigate these risks, during periods of economic downturn, the company’s exposure to these risks increases. Events of this nature may adversely affect the company’s liquidity or sales and revenues, and therefore have an adverse effect on the company’s business and results of operations.If the company's information technology systems fail, or if the company experiences an interruption in the operation of its information technology systems, then the company's business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.The company relies upon the capacity, reliability and security of its information technology, or IT, systems across all of its major business functions, including research and development, manufacturing, sales, financial and administrative functions. Since the company is geographically diverse, has various business segments and has grown over the years though various acquisitions, it also has many disparate versions of IT systems across its organization. As a result of these disparate IT systems, the company faces the challenge of supporting older systems and implementing upgrades when necessary. The failure of the company's information technology systems, whether resulting from the disparate versions of IT systems across its various segments, business functions or otherwise, its inability to successfully maintain, enhance and/or replace its information technology systems, or any compromise of the integrity or security of the data that is generated from information technology systems, or any shortcomings in the company's disaster recovery platforms, could adversely affect the company's results of operations, disrupt business and make the company unable, or severely limit the company's ability to respond to customer demands. In addition, the company's information technology systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: •earthquake, fire, flood and other natural disasters;•employee or other theft;•attacks by computer viruses or hackers;•power outages; and•computer systems, internet, telecommunications or data network failure.Any interruption of the company's information technology systems could result in decreased revenue, increased expenses, increased capital expenditures, customer dissatisfaction and potential lawsuits, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations or financial condition. The industry in which the company operates is highly competitive and some of the company’s competitors may have greater financial resources than the company does.The home medical equipment market is highly competitive and the company’s products face significant competition from other well-established manufacturers. Reduced government reimbursement levels and changes in reimbursement policies, such as the National Competitive Bidding program implemented by CMS, may drive competitors, particularly those that have greater financial resources than the company's to offer drastically reduced pricing terms in an effort to secure government acceptance of their products and pricing. Any increase in competition may cause the company to lose market share or compel the company to reduce prices to remain competitive, which could have a material adverse affect on the company’s results of operations.The consolidation of health care customers and the company’s competitors could result in a loss of customers or in additional competitive pricing pressures.Numerous initiatives and reforms instituted by legislators, regulators and third-party payors to reduce home medical equipment costs have resulted in a consolidation trend in the home medical equipment industry as well as among the company’s customers, including home health care providers. In the past, some of the company’s competitors have been lowering the purchase prices of their products in an effort to attract customers. This in turn has resulted in greater pricing pressures, including pressure to offer customers more competitive pricing terms, and the exclusion of certain suppliers from important market segments as group purchasing organizations, independent delivery networks and large single accounts continue to consolidate purchasing decisions I-18Table of Contentsfor some of the company’s customers. Further consolidation could result in a loss of customers, increased collectability risks, or increased competitive pricing pressures.The company’s products are subject to recalls, which could harm the company’s reputation and business.The company is subject to ongoing medical device reporting regulations that require the company to report to the FDA or similar governmental authorities in other countries if the company’s products cause, or contribute to, death or serious injury, or if they malfunction and would be likely to cause, or contribute to, death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. The FDA and similar governmental authorities in other countries could force the company to do a field correction or recall the company’s products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacturing. In addition, in light of a deficiency, defect in design or manufacturing or defect in labeling, the company may voluntarily elect to recall or correct the company’s products. A government mandated or voluntary recall/field correction by the company could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors or design defects, including defects in labeling. Any recall/field correction would divert managerial and financial resources and could harm the company’s reputation with its customers, product users and the health care professionals that use, prescribe and recommend the company’s products. The company could have product recalls or field actions that result in significant costs to the company in the future, and these actions could have a material adverse effect on the company’s business.The company’s revenues and profits are subject to exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations that could adversely affect its results of operations or financial position.Currency exchange rates are subject to fluctuation due to, among other things, changes in local, regional or global economic conditions, the imposition of currency exchange restrictions and unexpected changes in regulatory or taxation environments. The functional currency of the company’s subsidiaries outside the United States is the predominant currency used by the subsidiaries to transact business. Through the company’s international operations, the company is exposed to foreign currency fluctuations, and changes in exchange rates can have a significant impact on net sales and elements of cost. The company conducts a significant number of transactions in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In addition, because certain of the company’s costs and revenues are denominated in other currencies, the company’s results of operations are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as the financial results of those operations are translated from local currency into U.S. dollars upon consolidation.The company uses forward contracts primarily to help reduce its exposure to transactional exchange rate risk. Despite the company’s efforts to mitigate these risks, however, the company’s revenues and profitability may be materially adversely affected by exchange rate fluctuations. The company does not have a meaningful way to hedge translation.The company also is exposed to market risk through various financial instruments, including fixed rate and floating rate debt instruments. The company does at times use interest swap agreements to mitigate its exposure to interest rate fluctuations, but those efforts may not adequately protect the company from significant interest rate risks. Interest on much of the company’s debt is based on the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), which is currently historically low. Increases in LIBOR could have a significant impact on the company’s reported interest expense.The company is subject to certain risks inherent in managing and operating businesses in many different foreign jurisdictions.The company has significant international operations, including operations in Australia, Canada, New Zealand, Mexico, Asia (primarily China) and Europe. There are risks inherent in operating and selling products internationally, including:•different regulatory environments and reimbursement systems;•difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems;•foreign customers who may have longer payment cycles than customers in the United States;•tax rates in certain foreign countries that may exceed those in the United States and foreign earnings that may be subject to withholding requirements;•the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other trade restrictions including transfer pricing restrictions when products produced in one country are sold to an affiliated entity in another country;•general economic and political conditions in countries where the company operates or where end users of the company’s products reside;•security concerns and potential business interruption risks associated with political and/or social unrest in foreign countries where the company’s facilities or assets are located;•difficulties associated with managing a large organization spread throughout various countries;I-19Table of Contents•difficulties in enforcing intellectual property rights and weaker intellectual property rights protection in some countries;•required compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations; and•differing consumer product preferences.The factors described above also could disrupt the company’s product manufacturing/assembling and key suppliers located outside of the United States. For example, the company increasingly relies on its manufacturing and sourcing operations in China for the production of its products. Disruptions in the company’s foreign operations, particularly those in China or Mexico, may impact the company’s revenues and profitability.The company may be adversely affected by legal actions or regulatory proceedings.The company may be subject to claims, litigation or other liabilities as a result of injuries caused by allegedly defective products, acquisitions the company has completed or in the intellectual property area. Any such claims or litigation against the company, regardless of the merits, could result in substantial costs and could harm the company's business or its reputation. Intellectual property litigation or claims also could require the company to: •cease manufacturing and selling any of the company’s products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property;•obtain a license from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right alleged to have been infringed, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all; or•redesign or rename the company’s products, which may not be possible, and could be costly and time consuming and could result in lost revenues and market share.The results of legal proceedings are difficult to predict and the company cannot provide any assurance that an action or proceeding will not be commenced against the company, or that the company will prevail in any such action or proceeding, such as, for example, the two shareholder derivative lawsuits described under “Legal Proceedings.” An unfavorable resolution of any legal action or proceeding could materially and adversely affect the company's business, results of operations, liquidity or financial condition or its reputation. Product liability claims may harm the company’s business, particularly if the number of claims increases significantly or the company’s product liability insurance proves inadequate.The manufacture and sale of home health care devices and related products exposes the company to a significant risk of product liability claims. From time to time, the company has been, and is currently, subject to a number of product liability claims alleging that the use of the company’s products has resulted in serious injury or even death.Even if the company is successful in defending against any liability claims, these claims could nevertheless distract the company’s management, result in substantial costs, harm the company’s reputation, adversely affect the sales of all the company’s products and otherwise harm the company’s business. If there is a significant increase in the number of product liability claims, the company’s business could be adversely affected.The company’s captive insurance company, Invatection Insurance Company, currently has a policy year that runs from September 1 to August 31 and insures annual policy losses of $10,000,000 per occurrence and $13,000,000 in the aggregate of the company’s North American product liability exposure. The company also has additional layers of external insurance coverage insuring up to $75,000,000 in aggregate losses per policy year arising from individual claims anywhere in the world that exceed the captive insurance company policy limits or the limits of the company’s per country foreign liability limits, as applicable. There can be no assurance that the company’s current insurance levels will continue to be adequate or available at affordable rates.Product liability reserves are recorded for individual claims based upon historical experience, industry expertise and indications from the third-party actuary. Additional reserves, in excess of the specific individual case reserves, are provided for incurred but not reported claims based upon actuarial valuations at the time such valuations are conducted. Historical claims experience and other assumptions are taken into consideration to estimate the ultimate reserves. For example, the actuarial analysis assumes that historical loss experience is an indicator of future experience, that the distribution of exposures by geographic area and nature of operations for ongoing operations is expected to be very similar to historical operations with no dramatic changes and that the government indices used to trend losses and exposures are appropriate. Estimates made are adjusted on a regular basis and can be impacted by actual loss awards and settlements on claims. While actuarial analysis is used to help determine adequate reserves, the company is responsible for the determination and recording of adequate reserves in accordance with accepted loss reserving standards and practices.I-20Table of ContentsIn addition, as a result of a product liability claim or if the company’s products are alleged to be defective, the company may have to recall some of its products, may have to incur significant costs or may suffer harm to its business reputation.Decreased availability or increased costs of raw materials could increase the company’s costs of producing its products.The company purchases raw materials, fabricated components, some finished goods and services from a variety of suppliers. Raw materials such as plastics, steel, and aluminum are considered key raw materials. Where appropriate, the company employs contracts with its suppliers, both domestic and international. In those situations in which contracts are not advantageous, the company believes that its relationships with its suppliers are satisfactory and that alternative sources of supply are readily available. From time to time, however, the prices and availability of these raw materials fluctuate due to global market demands, which could impair the company’s ability to procure necessary materials, or increase the cost of these materials. Inflationary and other increases in costs of these raw materials have occurred in the past and may recur from time to time. In addition, freight costs associated with shipping and receiving product and sales are impacted by fluctuations in the cost of oil and gas. A reduction in the supply or increase in the cost of those raw materials could impact the company’s ability to manufacture its products and could increase the cost of production. As an example, inflation in China has in the past and will probably in the future increase costs and an appreciation of the Yuan or an increase in labor rates could have an unfavorable impact on the cost of key components and some finished goods. Demand in China and other developing countries for raw materials may result in increases in the cost of key commodities and could have a negative impact on the profits of the company if these increases cannot be passed onto the company’s customers.Lower cost imports could negatively impact the company’s profitability.Competition from lower cost imports sourced from Asia may negatively impact the company’s sales volumes. In the past, competition from certain of these products has caused the company to lower its prices, cutting into the company’s profit margins and reducing the company’s overall profitability.The company’s success depends on the company’s ability to design, manufacture, distribute and achieve market acceptance of new products with higher functionality and lower costs.The company sells products to customers primarily in markets that are characterized by technological change, product innovation and evolving industry standards, yet in which product price is increasingly a primary consideration in customers’ purchasing decisions. The company is continually engaged in product development and improvement programs. The company must continue to design and improve innovative products, effectively distribute and achieve market acceptance of those products, and reduce the costs of producing the company’s products, in order to compete successfully with the company’s competitors. If competitors’ product development capabilities become more effective than the company’s product development capabilities, if competitors’ new or improved products are accepted by the market before the company’s products or if competitors are able to produce products at a lower cost and thus offer products for sale at a lower price, the company’s business, financial condition and results of operation could be adversely affected.Failure to properly manage the distribution of the company’s products may result in reduced revenue and profitability.The company uses a variety of distribution methods to sell its products and services. The company’s distribution network includes various customers such as specialized home health care providers and extended care facilities, hospital and HMO-based stores, home health agencies, mass merchandisers and the Internet. As the company reaches more customers worldwide through an increasing number of new distribution channels, inventory management becomes more challenging. If the company is unable to properly manage and balance inventory levels and potential conflicts among these various distribution methods, its operating results could be harmed.The company’s business strategy relies on certain assumptions concerning demographic trends that impact the market for its products. If these assumptions prove to be incorrect, demand for the company’s products may be lower than expected.The company’s ability to achieve its business objectives is subject to a variety of factors, including the relative increase in the aging of the general population. The company believes that these trends will increase the need for its products. The projected demand for the company’s products could materially differ from actual demand if the company’s assumptions regarding these trends and acceptance of its products by health care professionals and patients prove to be incorrect or do not materialize. If the company’s assumptions regarding these factors prove to be incorrect, the company may not be able to successfully implement the company’s business strategy, which could adversely affect the company’s results of operations. In addition, the perceived benefits of these trends may be offset by competitive or business factors, such as the introduction of new products by the company’s competitors or the emergence of other countervailing trends, including lower reimbursement and pricing.I-21Table of ContentsThe company’s debt may limit the company’s flexibility in operating its business.The company has substantial outstanding indebtedness. This indebtedness requires a significant portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and/or interest, thus reducing the company’s ability to use its cash flow to fund its operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities. The company’s indebtedness also may limit the company’s ability to react to changes in the economy or its industry.The company’s revolving credit facility contains various covenants that limit the company’s ability to engage in specified types of transactions. In addition, under the company’s revolving credit facility, it is required to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios and other financial condition tests. These covenants could materially and adversely affect the company’s ability to finance its future operations or capital needs. Furthermore, they may restrict the company’s ability to conduct and expand its business and pursue its business strategies. The company’s ability to meet these financial ratios and financial condition tests can be affected by events beyond its control, including changes in general economic and business conditions, or they can be affected by government enforcement actions, such as, for example, adverse impacts from the consent decree of injunction required by the FDA.Armed hostilities, terrorism, natural disasters, political unrest or public health issues could harm the company’s business.Armed hostilities, terrorism, natural disasters, political unrest or public health issues, whether in the U.S. or abroad, could cause damage or disruption to the company, its suppliers or customers, or could create political or economic instability, any of which could harm the company’s business. These events could cause a decrease in demand for the company’s products, could make it difficult or impossible for the company to deliver products or for the company’s suppliers to deliver materials, and could create delays and inefficiencies in the company’s manufacturing operations.The company’s Chairman of the Board of Directors and certain members of management own shares representing a substantial percentage of the company’s voting power and their interests may differ from other shareholders.The company has two classes of common stock. The Common Shares have one vote per share and the Class B Common Shares have 10 votes per share. As of January 1, 2012, the company’s chairman, Mr. A. Malachi Mixon, III, and certain members of management beneficially owned (including the right to acquire) approximately 31% of the combined voting power of the company’s Common Shares and Class B Common Shares and could influence the outcome of a corporate transaction or other matter submitted to the shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of the company’s assets. They also will have the power to influence or make more difficult a change in control. The interests of Mr. Mixon and his relatives may differ from the interests of the other shareholders and they may take actions with which some shareholders may disagree.The company’s operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected if the company becomes involved in litigation regarding its patents or other intellectual property rights.Litigation involving patents and other intellectual property rights is common in the company’s industry, and other companies within the company’s industry have used intellectual property litigation in an attempt to gain a competitive advantage. The company in the past has been, and in the future may become, a party to lawsuits involving patents or other intellectual property. If the company loses any of these proceedings, a court or a similar foreign governing body could invalidate or render unenforceable the company’s owned or licensed patents, require the company to pay significant damages, seek licenses and/or pay ongoing royalties to third parties, require the company to redesign its products, or prevent the company from manufacturing, using or selling its products, any of which would have an adverse effect on the company’s results of operations and financial condition. The company in the past has brought, and may in the future also bring, actions against third parties for infringement of the company’s intellectual property rights. The company may not succeed in these actions. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits, proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or its foreign equivalents and related legal and administrative proceedings are both costly and time consuming. Protracted litigation to defend or prosecute the company’s intellectual property rights could seriously detract from the time the company’s management would otherwise devote to running its business. Intellectual property litigation relating to the company’s products could cause its customers or potential customers to defer or limit their purchase or use of the affected products until resolution of the litigation.I-22Table of ContentsIf the company is unable to protect its intellectual property rights or resolve successfully claims of infringement brought against it, the company's product sales and business could be affected adversely.The company's business depends in part on its ability to establish, protect, safeguard and enforce its intellectual property and contractual rights and to defend against any claims of infringement, both of which involve complex legal, factual and marketplace uncertainties. The company relies on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark law and security measures to protect its intellectual property, but effective intellectual property protection may not be available in all places that the company sells its products or services, particularly in certain foreign jurisdictions. In addition, the company uses nondisclosure, confidentiality agreements and invention assignment agreements with many of its employees, and nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements with certain third parties, in an effort to help protect its proprietary technology and know-how. If these agreements are breached or the company's intellectual property is otherwise misappropriated, the company may have to rely on litigation to enforce its intellectual property rights. If any of these measures are unsuccessful in protecting the company's intellectual property, the company's business may be affected adversely. In addition, the company may face claims of infringement that could interfere with its ability to use technology or other intellectual property rights that are material to the company's business operations. In the event that a claim of infringement against the company is successful, the company may be required to pay royalties or license fees to continue to use technology or other intellectual property rights that the company was using, or the company may be unable to obtain necessary licenses from third parties at a reasonable cost or within a reasonable time. If the company is unable to obtain licenses on reasonable terms, it may be forced to cease selling or using the products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property, or to redesign or, in the case of trademark claims, rename its products to avoid infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may not be possible, or if possible, may be time-consuming. Any litigation of this type, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs to the company and adversely affect the company's business and financial condition.The company also holds patent and other intellectual property licenses from third parties for some of its products and on technologies that are necessary in the design and manufacture of some of the company's products. The loss of these licenses could prevent the company from, or could cause additional disruption or expense in, manufacturing, marketing and selling these products, which could harm the company's business. The company’s research and development and manufacturing processes are subject to federal, state, local and foreign environmental requirements.The company’s research and development and manufacturing processes are subject to federal, state, local and foreign environmental requirements, including requirements governing the discharge of pollutants into the air or water, the use, handling, storage and disposal of hazardous substances and the responsibility to investigate and clean up contaminated sites. Under some of these laws, the company also could be held responsible for costs relating to any contamination at the company’s past or present facilities and at third-party waste disposal sites. These could include costs relating to contamination that did not result from any violation of law and, in some circumstances, contamination that the company did not cause. The company may incur significant expenses relating to the failure to comply with environmental laws. The enactment of stricter laws or regulations, the stricter interpretation of existing laws and regulations or the requirement to undertake the investigation or remediation of currently unknown environmental contamination at the company’s own or third party sites may require the company to make additional expenditures, which could be material.Since the company’s ability to obtain further financing may be limited, the company may be unable to acquire strategic acquisition candidates.The company’s plans typically include identifying, acquiring, and integrating other strategic businesses. There are various reasons for the company to acquire businesses or product lines, including providing new products or new manufacturing and service capabilities, to add new customers, to increase penetration with existing customers, and to expand into new geographic markets. The company’s ability to successfully grow through acquisitions depends upon its ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate suitable acquisitions and to obtain any necessary financing. The costs of acquiring other businesses could increase if competition for acquisition candidates increases. Further, the provisions of the company’s existing credit facility impose limitations regarding acquisitions, which could prevent significant acquisitions, without entering into amendments with regard to those provisions. If the company is unable to obtain the necessary financing, it may miss opportunities to grow its business through strategic acquisitions.Additionally, the success of the company’s acquisition strategy is subject to other risks and costs, including the following:I-23Table of Contents•the company’s ability to realize operating efficiencies, synergies, or other benefits expected from an acquisition, and possible delays in realizing the benefits of the acquired company or products;•diversion of management’s time and attention from other business concerns;•difficulties in retaining key employees of the acquired businesses who are necessary to manage these businesses;•difficulties in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies throughout acquired companies;•adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers or customers;•the risks associated with the assumption of contingent or undisclosed liabilities of acquisition targets; and•ability to generate future cash flows or the availability of financing.In addition, an acquisition could materially impair the company’s operating results by causing the company to incur debt or requiring the amortization of acquisition expenses and acquired assets.The company’s reported results may be adversely affected by increases in reserves for uncollectible accounts receivable.The company has a large balance of accounts receivable and has established a reserve for the portion of such accounts receivable that the company estimates will not be collected because of the company’s customers’ non-payment. The specific reserve is based on historical trends and current relationships with the company’s customers and providers. Changes in the company’s collection rates can result from a number of factors, including turnover in personnel, changes in the payment policies or practices of payors, changes in industry rates or pace of reimbursement or changes in the financial health of the company’s customers. As a result of past changes in Medicare reimbursement regulations, specifically changes to the qualification processes and reimbursement levels of consumer power wheelchairs and custom power wheelchairs, the business viability of several of the company’s customers had become questionable and several have failed. Further, as National Competitive Bidding is implemented in additional areas, the number of start-up or new providers who have three-year contracted pricing will increase. The company’s reserve for uncollectible receivables has fluctuated in the past and will continue to fluctuate in the future. Changes in rates of collection, even if they are small in absolute terms, could require the company to increase its reserve for uncollectible receivables beyond its current level. The company has reviewed the accounts receivables, including those receivables financed through DLL, associated with many of its customers that are most exposed to these issues. If the business viability of certain of the company’s customers deteriorates or if the company’s credit policies are ineffective in reducing the company’s exposures to credit risk, additional increases in reserves for uncollectible accounts may be necessary, which could adversely affect the company’s financial results.The loss of the services of the company’s key management and personnel could adversely affect its ability to operate the company’s business.The company’s future success will depend, in part, upon the continued service of key managerial, research and development staff and sales and technical personnel. In addition, the company’s future success will depend on its ability to continue to attract and retain other highly qualified personnel, including personnel experienced in quality systems and regulatory affairs. If the company is not successful in retaining its current personnel or in hiring or retaining qualified personnel in the future, the company’s business may be adversely affected. The company’s future success depends, to a significant extent, on the abilities and efforts of its executive officers and other members of its management team. If the company loses the services of any of its management team, the company’s business may be adversely affected.Certain provisions of the company’s debt agreements, its charter documents, its shareholder rights plan and Ohio law could delay or prevent the sale of the company.Provisions of the company’s debt agreements, its charter documents, its shareholder rights plan and Ohio law may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or attempt to acquire, control of the company even if a change in control would result in the purchase of shares of the company at a premium to market price. In addition, these provisions may limit the ability of shareholders of the company to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interest.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.None.I-24Table of Contents