ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Statements and information included in this Form 10-K that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include statements regarding the Company’s expectations, intentions, beliefs and strategies regarding the future including sales, earnings per share, cost structure, market position, market growth opportunities and new services. The Company may make other forward-looking statements from time to time, including, but not limited to press releases, public conferences, public investor conference calls and webcasts. All forward-looking statements are based on information available to the Company at the time the statements are made, and the Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements. Actual results are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those included in the forward-looking statements. Some of these risks and uncertainties are discussed below. The reader should carefully consider the following risk factors and other information in this Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the Company may face. Additional risks and uncertainties Not Known to us or that we now think are Immaterial may also impair the Company’s business operations. General risks that apply to most businesses also apply to the Company such as general economic conditions, availability of employees or other resources, inflation, seasonality, access to capital, natural disasters, acts of God, war, or terror. While not specified below, the Not Known, Immaterial, or General Risks could cause actual results to differ materially from those included in the forward-looking statements just as significantly as the specified risks below. If any of the following specified risks were to occur, the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If that occurs, the trading price of the Company’s common stock could decline, and investors may lose all or part of their investment. Key Personnel 11 Table of Contents We have a relatively flat management structure and experienced management team. The Company relies on the continued service of the Company’s senior management team to achieve its objectives. The unplanned or uncoordinated loss of any key management employee could adversely affect the Company’s business and its results of operations, as well as the price of the Company’s securities. Also, the Company’s future success depends on its ability to identify, attract, hire, train and motivate other highly skilled personnel. Failure to do so may adversely affect future results. On February 17, 2006, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Jim Baumgardner resigned to accept the position of Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer with SECOR International Inc., a full service environmental engineering and consulting firm headquartered in Redmond, Washington. Mr. Baumgardner will stay with the Company through March 24, 2006, to help ensure an orderly transition of his current duties. In accordance with the executive succession plan previously adopted by the Board of Directors, Vice President and Controller Michael Gilberg will be designated the Company’s principal accounting officer. No assurance can be given that the company will timely locate a successor Chief Financial Officer, and failure to do so may adversely affect future results Compliance and Changes with Applicable Laws and Regulations The changing regulatory framework governing the Company’s diverse business creates significant risks, including potential liabilities from violations of environmental statutes and regulations. Failure to timely obtain or comply with applicable federal, state and local governmental licenses, permits or approvals for the Company’s waste treatment and disposal facilities could prevent or inhibit us from operating the Company’s facilities and providing services, resulting in a potentially significant loss of revenue and earnings. Changes in laws or regulations or changes in the enforcement or interpretation of existing laws and regulations may require that we modify existing operating licenses or permits, or that we obtain additional approvals. Any new governmental requirements that raise compliance standards or require changes in operating practices or technology requirements may impose significant costs. Failure to comply with applicable statutes, regulations, licenses and permits may result in the imposition of substantial fines and penalties and could adversely affect the Company’s ability to carry on its business. The Company’s revenues are primarily generated as a result of requirements imposed on its customers under federal and state laws, regulations and programs to protect public health and the environment. If requirements to comply with these laws and regulations, particularly those relating to the treatment or disposal of PCB, hazardous, NORM/NARM and low-level radioactive waste, were substantially relaxed or less vigorously enforced, demand for the Company’s services could materially decrease and the Company’s revenues could be significantly reduced. Exposure to Litigation Because the Company’s personnel routinely handle radioactive, PCB and hazardous materials, we may be subject to liability claims by employees, contractors and other third parties. There can be no assurance that the Company’s existing liability insurance is adequate to cover claims asserted against us or that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future. Adverse rulings in ongoing legal matters could also have a material adverse effect. Access to Insurance and Financial Assurances We are required by license, permit, and prudence to maintain various insurance instruments and financial assurances. Without cost-effective access to insurance and/or financial assurance products, the Company’s ability to operate its facilities would be materially and adversely affected. While we expect to renew these policies prior to expiration, no guarantee can be given that we will be able to renew or procure new financial assurance insurance on favorable terms. Inability to obtain cost-effective insurance and/or financial assurance could have a material adverse effect. Implementation of New Technologies We expect to introduce new technologies at Company facilities from time to time. We have experienced difficulties implementing new technologies in the past. If we cannot cost-effectively deploy new treatment technologies in response to market conditions and customer requirements, the Company’s business could be adversely affected. Competitive Environment 12 Table of Contents We face competition from companies with much greater resources and potentially more cost-effective services. An increase in the number of commercial treatment or disposal facilities for hazardous or radioactive waste in the United States, or a decrease in the treatment or disposal fees charged by competitors could negatively affect the Company’s results of operations. The Company’s business is heavily affected by waste tipping fees assessed by state regulatory entities. These fees, which vary from state to state, are periodically adjusted. Such adjustments may significantly impact the competitive environment in which we conduct business either positively or negatively. Economic Conditions Affecting The Company’s Customers The Company’s hazardous waste facilities serve steel mills, refineries, chemical production plants and other basic industries that are, or may be, affected by general economic conditions. These industries may curtail waste production waste and/or delay spending on plant maintenance, waste clean-up work and other discretionary projects. Potential Loss of Major Contracts Customers periodically review their contracts with us and may, from time to time, opt not to renew or extend their disposal contracts. A loss of one or more of the Company’s large contracts could significantly reduce its revenues which could materially and adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. Potential Fires or Other Incidents Limiting Operations We are subject to unexpected occurrences related, or unrelated, to the routine handling of dangerous substances. A fire or other incident, such as the fire in 2004 at the Company’s Texas waste treatment facility, could impair one or more of the facilities from performing their normal operations which could have a material adverse impact on us. Access to Cost Effective Rail Transportation Service Revenue at the Company’s Grand View, Idaho facility is subject to potential risks from disruptions in rail transportation service. Large volumes of business and event business are routinely shipped to this facility by rail. Events such as strikes, natural disasters and other acts of God, war, or terror could delay shipments and reduce both volumes and revenues. In addition, rail service may be limited by economic conditions, including increasing demand for rail service resulting in sustained periods of slower service. During the second half of 2004 we experienced delays in receiving waste because the rail transporter serving the Idaho facility failed to meet anticipated schedules. No assurance can be given that we can procure transportation services at historic rates. Such factors could limit the Company’s ability to implement its growth plan and increase revenue at the Idaho facility. Utilization of Net Operating Loss Carryforwards As of December 31, 2005, we had federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $20 million. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code imposes an annual limitation on the amount of net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”) that may be used to offset taxable income when a corporation has undergone significant changes in its ownership. Our ability to utilize NOLs may be limited by the sale of common stock presently registered. To the extent the Company’s use of NOLs is limited by Section 382, the Company’s income would be subject to cash payments of income tax earlier than it would if it were unable to fully use its NOLs. Ability to Perform Contracts as Required Certain contracts require us to meet qualitative and quantitative performance criteria for our services. In some cases our ability to meet these criteria requires that we expend significant resources. If we were unable to perform as required, we could be subject to substantial monetary penalties and/or loss of the affected contracts. Significant Sales by the Selling Stockholders May Cause the Market Price of the Company’s Stock to Decline Sales of a substantial number of the shares covered by the Form S-3 filed in July 2005 on behalf of two of the Company’s major stockholders, or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely effect the market price of the Company’s common stock. Also, while we have no current plans to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities, the sale of the shares covered by this offering could impair the Company’s ability to raise capital through the sale of such securities. 13 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 