Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K, the following are important factors which could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of us. A significant portion of our business depends upon non-recurring event clean-up projects over which we have no control. A significant portion of our disposal revenue is attributable to discrete Event Business which varies widely in size, duration and unit pricing. For the year ended December 31, 2009, approximately 44% of our treatment and disposal revenues were derived from Event Business projects. The one-time nature of Event Business necessarily creates variability in revenue and earnings. This variability is further influenced by service mix, general economic conditions, funding availability, changes in laws and regulations, government enforcement actions, public controversy, litigation, weather, property redevelopment plans and other factors. As a result of this variability, we can experience significant quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year volatility in revenue, gross profit, gross margin, operating income and net income. Also, while many large project opportunities are identifiable years in advance, both large and small project opportunities also routinely arise with little prior notice. This uncertainty, which is inherent to the hazardous and radioactive waste disposal industry, is factored into our budgeting and externally communicated business projections. Our projections combine historical experience with identified sales pipeline opportunities and planned initiatives for new or expanded service lines. A reduction in the number and size of new clean-up projects won to replace completed work could have a material adverse affect on our business. The completion of, loss of or failure to renew one or more significant contracts could adversely affect our profitability. Our multiple year Honeywell Jersey City project was completed in October 2009. Under this four year contract, which began in 2005, we received approximately 1.3 million tons of waste at our Grand View, Idaho facility. Revenue from Honeywell represented 38%, 43% and 41% of total revenue in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Waste received from the Honeywell Jersey City project contained high metals concentrations of chromite ore processing residue soil and debris that is a commodity material resulting in the waste stream being one of our lower margin treatment services. However, in 2009 we experienced increased profitability on the waste received from Honeywell as a result of an approximate 30% reduction in our additive costs used to treat the waste prior to disposal, a reduction in personnel as we prepared for the end of the project and, to a limited degree, increased logistics and processing efficiencies realized over the duration of the project. At the same time, economic conditions significantly impacted our non-Honeywell business resulting in the Honeywell portion of our business becoming a more significant portion of our total overall business. As a result, operating income generated from the Honeywell Jersey City project grew to an estimated 30% of our total operating income, more than in any other year. We expect that replacement of revenue and operating income from the Honeywell Jersey City project to come from our expanded treatment and disposal capabilities, expanded permits, thermal recycling services, utilization of our railcar fleet to secure other unidentified remedial cleanup projects, expanding services to waste brokers and strategic acquisitions. The time frame required to replace the Honeywell Jersey City project revenue and earnings is dependent on a number of factors, many of which are outside the control of the Company, including but not limited to general economic conditions, capital in the commercial credit markets, general level of government funding on environmental matters, real estate development and other industrial investment opportunities. If we are unable to replace the contribution from the Honeywell Jersey City project with new projects could result in a material adverse affect on our business. We have a multiple year contract with the USACE which accounted for approximately 8% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009. We have a long-term disposal contract with the USACE that was scheduled to expire in 2009 but has been extended to expire in 2010. While multi-year USACE projects may continue under the contract for up to five years beyond 2010, the contract does not guarantee any funding beyond assigned project-specific task orders or a follow-on contract for projects first awarded after 2010. Reduced appropriations for the USACE and/or other government clean-up work, a reduction in project-specific task orders, and/or the loss of or failure to renew these or other large contracts and task orders combined with failure to replace their contribution with new projects could result in a material adverse affect on our business. 12 Adverse economic conditions, government funding or competitive pressures affecting our customers could harm our business. We serve oil refineries, chemical production plants, steel mills, waste broker-aggregators serving small manufacturers and other industrial customers that are, or may be, affected by changing economic conditions and competition. These customers may be significantly impacted by a deterioration in general economic conditions and may curtail waste production and/or delay spending on plant maintenance, waste clean-up projects and other discretionary work. Spending by government agencies may also be reduced due to declining tax revenues that may result from a general deterioration in economic conditions. Factors that can impact general economic conditions and the level of spending by our customers include the general level of consumer and industrial spending, increases in fuel and energy costs, residential and commercial real estate and mortgage market conditions, labor and healthcare costs, access to credit, consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors affecting spending behavior. Market forces may also compel customers to cease or reduce operations, declare bankruptcy, liquidate or relocate to other countries, any of which could adversely affect our business. Our operations are significantly affected by the commencement and completion of both large and multiple, smaller clean-up projects; potential seasonal fluctuations due to weather; budgetary decisions and cash flow limitations influencing the timing of customer spending for remedial activities; the timing of regulatory agency decisions and judicial proceedings; changes in government regulations and enforcement policies and other factors that may delay or cause the cancellation of clean-up projects. We do not control such factors, which can cause our revenue and income to vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations our business could be adversely affected. The changing regulatory framework governing our business creates significant risks. We could be held liable if our operations cause contamination of air, groundwater or soil. Under current law, we may be held liable for damage caused by conditions that existed before we acquired the assets or operations involved. Also, we may be liable if we arrange for the transportation, disposal or treatment of hazardous substances that cause environmental contamination at facilities operated by others, or if a predecessor made such arrangements and we are a successor. Liability for environmental damage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Stringent regulations of federal and state governments have a substantial impact on our business. Local government controls also apply. Many complex laws, rules, orders and regulatory interpretations govern environmental protection, health, safety, land use, zoning, transportation and related matters. Failure to obtain on a timely basis or comply with applicable federal, state and local governmental regulations, licenses, permits or approvals for our waste treatment and disposal facilities could prevent or restrict our ability to provide certain services, resulting in a potentially significant loss of revenue and earnings. Changes in environmental regulations may require us to make significant capital or other expenditures. Changes in laws or regulations or changes in the enforcement or interpretation of existing laws regulations or permitted activities may require us to modify existing operating licenses or permits, or obtain additional approvals. New governmental requirements that raise compliance standards or require changes in operating practices or technology may impose significant costs and/or limit operations. Our revenues are primarily generated as a result of requirements imposed on our customers under federal and state laws, and regulations to protect public health and the environment. If requirements to comply with laws and regulations governing management of PCB, hazardous or radioactive waste were relaxed or less vigorously enforced, demand for our services could materially decrease and our revenues and earnings could be significantly reduced. Our market is highly competitive. Failure to compete successfully could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. We face competition from companies with greater resources, service offerings we do not provide and lower pricing in certain instances. An increase in the number of commercial treatment or disposal facilities for hazardous or radioactive waste, significant expansion of existing competitor permitted capabilities or a decrease in the treatment or disposal fees charged by competitors could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Our business is also heavily affected by waste tipping fees imposed by government agencies. These fees, which vary from state to state and are periodically adjusted, may adversely impact the competitive environment in which we conduct our business. 13 If we are unable to obtain regulatory approvals and contracts for construction of additional disposal space by the time our current disposal capacity is exhausted, our business would be adversely affected. Construction of new disposal capacity at our operating disposal facilities beyond currently permitted capacity requires state regulatory agency approvals. Administrative processes for such approval reviews vary. The State of Texas, which regulates our Robstown facility, provides for an adjudicatory hearing process administered by a hearing officer appointed by the State. While we have historically been successful in obtaining timely approvals for proposed disposal facility expansions including those involving adjudicatory processes, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining future expansion approvals in a timely manner or at all. If we are not successful in receiving these approvals, our disposal capacity could eventually be exhausted, preventing us from accepting additional waste at an affected facility. This would have a material adverse effect on our business. We may not be able to obtain timely or cost effective transportation services which could adversely affect our profitability. Revenue at each of our facilities is subject to potential risks from disruptions in rail or truck transportation services relied upon to deliver waste to our facilities. Increases in fuel costs and unforeseen events such as labor disputes, public health pandemics, natural disasters and other acts of God, war, or terror could prevent or delay shipments and reduce both volumes and revenue. Our rail transportation service agreements with our customers generally allow us to pass on fuel surcharges assessed by the railroads, which decrease or eliminate our exposure to fuel cost increases. Transportation services may be limited by economic conditions, including increased demand for rail or trucking services, resulting in periods of slower service to the point that individual customer needs cannot be met. No assurance can be given that we can procure transportation services in a timely manner at competitive rates or pass through fuel cost increases in all cases. Such factors could also limit our ability to achieve revenue and earnings objectives. If we are unable to obtain at a reasonable cost the necessary levels of insurance and financial assurances required for operations, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. We are required by law, license, permit, and prudence to maintain various insurance instruments and financial assurances. We carry a broad range of insurance coverages that are customary for a company of our size in our business. We obtain these coverages to mitigate risk of loss, allowing us to manage our self-insured exposure from potential claims. We are self-insured for employee health-care coverage. Stop-loss insurance is carried covering liability on claims in excess of $150,000 per individual or on an aggregate basis for the monthly population. Accrued costs related to the self-insured health care coverage were $212,000 and $234,000 at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We also maintain a Pollution and Remediation Legal Liability Policy pursuant to RCRA regulations subject to a $250,000 self-insured retention. In addition, we are insured for consultant’s environmental liability subject to a $100,000 self-insured retention. We are also insured for losses or damage to third party property or people subject to a $50,000 self-insured retention. If our insurers were unable to meet their obligations, or our own obligations for claims were more than expected, there could be a material adverse effect to our financial condition and results of operation. Through December 31, 2009, we have met our financial assurance requirements through insurance. Our current closure and post-closure policies were renewed in December 2005 and expires in December 2010. This renewal required us to establish a self-fund trust for our non-operating site closure and post-closure liability and provide collateral equal to 15% of financial assurance through the term of the policy. We currently have in place all financial assurance instruments necessary for our operations. While we expect to continue renewing these policies, if we were unable to obtain adequate closure, post-closure or environmental insurance in the future, any partially or completely uninsured claim against us, if successful and of sufficient magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, continued access to casualty and pollution legal liability insurance with sufficient limits, at acceptable terms, is important to obtaining new business. Failure to maintain adequate financial assurance could also result in regulatory action including early closure of facilities. As of December 31, 2009, we have provided collateral of $4.8 million in funded trust agreements and issued $4.0 million in letters of credit through our primary bank for financial assurance insurance policies of approximately $34 million for closure and post-closure obligations. While we believe we will be able to maintain the requisite financial assurance policies at a reasonable cost, premium and collateral requirements may materially increase. Such increases could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 14 Loss of key management or sales personnel could harm our business. We have an experienced management team and rely on the continued service of our senior managers to achieve our objectives. We also have a senior sales team with industry experience averaging over 15 years. Our objective is to retain our present management and sales teams and identify, hire, train, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel. The loss of any key management employee or sales personnel could adversely affect our business and results of operations. The hazardous and radioactive waste industry in which we operate is subject to litigation risk. The handling of radioactive, PCBs and hazardous material subjects us to potential liability claims by employees, contractors, property owners, neighbors and others. There can be no assurance that our existing liability insurance is adequate to cover claims asserted against us or that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future. Adverse rulings in legal matters could also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business requires the handling of dangerous substances. Improper handling of such substances could result in an adverse impact on our business. We are subject to unexpected occurrences related, or unrelated, to the routine handling of dangerous substances. A fire or other incident, such as the fire in 2004 in our Robstown, Texas waste treatment building, could impair one or more facilities from performing normal operations. This could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Improper handling of these substances could also violate laws and regulations resulting in fines and/or suspension of operations. Failure to perform under our contracts may adversely harm our business. Certain contracts require us to meet specified performance criteria. Our ability to meet these criteria requires that we expend significant resources. If we or our subcontractors are unable to perform as required, we could be subject to substantial monetary penalties and/or loss of the affected contracts which may adversely affect our business. We may not be able or willing to pay future dividends. Our ability to pay dividends is subject to our future financial condition and certain conditions such as continued compliance with bank covenants. Our Board of Directors must also approve any dividends at their sole discretion. Pursuant to our credit agreement, we may only declare quarterly or annual dividends if on the date of declaration no event of default has occurred, no other event or condition that upon notice or continuation would constitute a default, and payment of the dividend will not result in a default. Unforeseen events or situations could cause non-compliance with these bank covenants, or cause the Board of Directors to discontinue or reduce the amount of any dividend payment. We may not be able to effectively implement thermal desorption recycling and other new technologies. We expect to continue implementing new technologies at our facilities. If we are unable to obtain targeted revenue streams from the thermal desorption recycling technology placed into service at our Robstown, Texas facility in 2008 our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. This could occur due to any number of risk factors including changes in market conditions including increased competition, outlets for recycled materials, equipment malfunction, disputes with the equipment owner/operator, the performance of the owner/operator in meeting its contractual obligations, regulatory compliance, and equipment operation and maintenance costs. In addition, if we are unable to identify and implement other new technologies in response to market conditions and customer requirements in a timely, cost effective manner, our financial condition and results of operations could also be adversely impacted. Integration of potential acquisitions may impose substantial costs and delays and cause other unanticipated adverse impacts. Acquisitions involve multiple risks. Our inability to successfully integrate the operations of an acquired business into our operations could have a material adverse effect on our business. These risks include but are not limited to: ● changing market conditions; ● increased competition; ● the need to spend substantial operational, financial and management resources integrating new businesses, technologies and processes and related difficulties integrating the operations, personnel or systems; 15 ● retention of key personnel and customers; ● impairments of goodwill and other intangible assets; and ● environmental and other liabilities associated with past operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 