ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, shareholders or prospective investors should carefully consider the following risk factors: The business of the Company is concentrated in and dependent upon the continued economic growth and welfare of its primary market areas. The Company operates in North Eastern Massachusetts, primarily Essex County. The Bank’s general market areas consist of the municipalities in which it operates banking offices and all of the contiguous cities and towns. The Bank’s nine branch offices are located in Essex County. The Company success is somewhat dependent upon the local economic conditions, business activity, population, income levels, deposits and real estate activity in these markets. Adverse economic conditions that affect these market areas could reduce growth rate, affect the ability of customers to repay their loans and generally affect financial condition and results of operations. Because of this geographical concentration, the Company is less able than national financial institutions to diversify credit risks across multiple markets. The Company faces intense competition in all phases of its business from other banks and financial institutions. The banking and financial services business in the Company’s market is highly competitive. Competitors include large national and regional banks, local community banks, savings and loan associations, securities and brokerage companies, mortgage companies, insurance companies, finance companies, money market mutual funds, credit unions and other non-bank financial service providers. Some of these competitors are not subject to the same regulatory restrictions, have advantages of scale due to their size, or have cost advantages due to their tax status. These competitive factors may limit the Company’s growth and profitability. The Company may have difficulty managing its growth, which may divert resources and limit the Company’s ability to successfully expand its operations. The Company believes that it has built its management team and personnel, and established an infrastructure, to support its future growth. The Company’s future success will depend on the ability of its officers and key employees to continue to implement and improve its operational, financial and management controls and processes, reporting systems and procedures, and to manage a growing number of client relationships. The Company may not be able to successfully implement improvements to its management information and control systems and control procedures and processes in an efficient or timely manner and may 20 Table of Contents discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls. In particular, its controls and procedures must be able to accommodate an increase in expected loan volume and the infrastructure that comes with new branches. Thus, the Company cannot be assured that its growth strategy will not place a strain on its administrative and operational infrastructure. If the Company is unable to manage future expansion in its operations, it may experience compliance and operational problems, have to slow the pace of growth, or have to incur additional expenditures beyond current projections to support such growth, any one of which could adversely affect its business. Branch expansion plans would require significant expenditures. As part of the Bank’s growth strategy, management intends to add additional retail branch locations in attractive markets within the Bank’s primary market area. The Bank operates in Northern Essex County where the cost of real estate and commercial properties are among the more expensive in Massachusetts. Future expansion to establish these locations will require additional investments in facilities, people and equipment. The initial phase of such branch expansion will increase the operating expenses of the Bank. The Bank has a high concentration of loans secured by real estate and a downturn in the real estate market, for any reason, could hurt its business and our prospects. At December 31, 2006, 79.3% of its net loan portfolio was comprised of loans secured by real estate. These real estate-secured loans are concentrated in the North Shore Region of Massachusetts. A downturn in the local economy could have both a material adverse effect on a borrower’s ability to repay these loans, as well as the value of the real property held as collateral. The Bank’s loan portfolio includes a substantial amount of commercial loans, which include risks that may be greater than the risks related to residential loans. The Bank’s commercial loan portfolio (consisting of commercial real estate and commercial business loans) amounted to $160.4 million at December 31, 2006, comprising 53% of total net loans. Commercial real estate loans generally carry larger loan balances and involve a greater degree of financial and credit risks than consumer loans or residential mortgage loans. Any significant failure to pay on time by its customers would negatively affect the Bank’s earnings. The increased financial and credit risk associated with these types of loans is a result of several factors, including the concentration of principal in a limited number of loans and borrowers, the size of loan balances, the effects of general economic conditions on income-producing properties and the increased difficulty of evaluating and monitoring these types of loans. In addition, when underwriting a commercial loan, it may take a security interest in commercial real estate and, in some instances upon a default by the borrower, it may foreclose on and take title to the property, which may lead to potential financial risk for the Bank under applicable environmental laws. If hazardous substances were discovered on any of these properties, the Bank may be liable to governmental entities or third parties for the costs of remediation of the hazard, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Many environmental laws can impose liability regardless of whether the Bank knew of, or were responsible for, the contamination. Furthermore, the repayment of loans secured by commercial real estate is typically dependent upon the successful operation of the related real estate or commercial project. If the cash flow from the project is reduced, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. This cash flow shortage may result in the failure to make loan payments. In such cases, the Bank may be compelled to modify the terms of the loan. In addition, the nature of these loans is such that they are generally less predictable and more difficult to evaluate and monitor. As a result, repayment of these loans may, to a greater extent than residential loans, be subject to adverse conditions in the real estate market or economy. Commercial real estate is cyclical and poses risks of possible loss due to concentration levels and similar risks of the asset, especially because 37% of our net loan portfolio consisted of commercial real estate loans at 21 Table of Contents December 31, 2006. The banking regulators generally give greater scrutiny to commercial real estate loans, and expect banks with higher levels of commercial real estate loans to have appropriate underwriting, internal controls, risk management policies and portfolio stress testing, as well as possibly requiring higher levels of allowances for possible loan losses and capital levels as a result of commercial real estate lending growth and exposures. The Bank’s business is subject to various lending and other economic risks that could adversely impact its result of operations and financial condition. Changes in economic conditions, particularly an economic slowdown in the North Shore Region, could hurt the Bank’s business. Its business is directly affected by political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, and changes in governmental monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond our control. Deterioration of economic conditions, in particular an economic slowdown within the North Shore Region, could result in the following consequences, any of which may negatively affect the Bank’s business materially: • loan delinquencies may increase; • problem assets and foreclosures may increase; • demand for its products and services may decline; and • collateral for loans made by it, especially real estate, may decline in value, reducing in turn a customer’s borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with the Bank’s loans receivable. The Bank’s allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. The Bank seeks to mitigate the risks inherent in our loan portfolio by adhering to specific underwriting practices. These practices include analysis of a borrower’s prior credit history, financial statements, tax returns and cash flow projections, valuation of collateral based on reports of independent appraisers and verification of liquid assets. Although the Bank believes that its underwriting criteria are appropriate for the various kinds of loans it makes, it may incur losses on loans that meet its underwriting criteria, and these losses may exceed the amounts set aside as reserves in its allowances for loan losses. Like all financial institutions, the Bank maintains an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance. Its allowances for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect its operating results. The Bank’s allowance for loan losses is based on an evaluation of the risks associated with its loans receivable as well as its prior experience. A substantial portion of its loans are unseasoned and lack an established record of performance. To date, it has experienced negligible losses. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that may be beyond its control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. Federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review the Bank’s loans and assess the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses. While the Bank believes that its allowance for loan losses is adequate to cover current losses, the Bank cannot be assured that it will not need to increase its allowance for loan losses or that regulators will not require the Bank to increase this allowance. Either of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect the Bank’s earnings and profitability. The Bank’s business is subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates may negatively affect its financial performance. The Bank is unable to predict fluctuations of market interest rates, which are affected by many factors, including: • inflation; 22 Table of Contents • recession; • a rise in unemployment; • tightening money supply; and • domestic and international disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. Changes in the interest rate environment may reduce the Bank’s profits. The Bank realizes income from the differential or “spread” between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. Net interest spreads are affected by the difference between the maturities and repricing characteristics of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. The Bank is vulnerable to changes in interest rates because its interest-earning assets generally have shorter durations than our interest-bearing liabilities. However, although management considers a substantial portion of the Bank’s deposits to be core deposits and not completely vulnerable to rising rates, such deposits can be withdrawn by the customer without notice for a higher rate account within the Bank or with a competing financial institution offering higher rates. As a result, material and prolonged increases in interest rates could decrease the Bank’s net interest income. This unpredictability of customer behavior is a factor outside the Bank’s control and not totally dependent upon the direction of interest rate changes. Therefore, the Bank’s interest rate risk exposure is very difficult to predict with certainty and subject to a number of assumptions of which it has no control. Changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect the Bank’s net interest spread, asset quality, levels of prepayments and cash flow, as well as the market value of the Bank’s securities portfolio and overall profitability. The Bank’s mortgage operations are also affected by interest rate fluctuations. Generally, increases in interest rates lead to decreases in home refinancing activity, thus reducing the number of mortgage loans the Bank originates. The Company’s investment portfolio includes securities that are sensitive to interest rates and variations in interest rates may adversely impact its profitability. At December 31, 2006, the Company’s securities portfolio aggregated $116.2 million, of which was classified as available-for-sale, and was comprised of mortgage-backed securities which are insured or guaranteed by U.S. government agencies or government-sponsored enterprises, U.S. government agency securities and money market preferred equity securities. At such date, the available-for-sale securities amounted to approximately 24.9% of the Company’s total assets and are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations. The unrealized gains or losses in the Company’s available-for-sale portfolio are reported as a separate component of stockholders’ equity. As a result, future interest rate fluctuations may impact stockholders’ equity, causing material fluctuations from quarter to quarter. Failure to hold the Company’s securities until payments are received on mortgage-backed securities or until maturity on other investments or until market conditions are favorable for a sale could adversely affect its earnings and profitability. The Company is dependent upon its management team, and the loss of its senior executive officers or other key employees could impair its relationship with its customers and adversely affect its business and financial results. The Company’s success is dependent upon the continued services and skills of Donat A. Fournier, Michael O. Gilles, and John L. Good, III and other senior officers including John R. Putney, its chief lender, and James E. Rich, its chief trust officer. While the Company has employment agreements containing non-competition provisions with each of these individuals, these agreements do not prevent any of them from terminating their employment with the Company. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of these key personnel could have an adverse impact on the Company’s business because of their skills, knowledge of the Company’s market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. 23 Table of Contents The Company’s success also depends, in part, on its continued ability to attract and retain experienced commercial lenders and residential mortgage originators, as well as other management personnel. The loss of the services of several of such key personnel could adversely affect our growth strategy and prospects to the extent the Company is unable to replace such personnel. The Company is attempting to hire several experienced commercial business relationship officers who have strong business relationships in order to expand and enhance the Company’s current deposit and commercial banking operations. Competition for commercial lenders and residential mortgage originators is strong within the commercial banking and mortgage banking industries, and the Company may not be successful in attracting or retaining the personnel we require. Strong competition within the Bank’s market area may limit its growth and profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. The North Shore Region of Massachusetts has a high concentration of financial institutions including large money center and regional banks, community banks and credit unions. Some of the Bank’s competitors offer products and services that it currently does not offer, such as private banking. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than the Bank does and may offer certain services that it does not or cannot provide. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in the Bank earning less on its loans and paying more on its deposits, which reduces net interest income. The Bank expects competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes. The Bank’s profitability depends upon its continued ability to successfully compete in its market area. Government regulation may have an adverse effect on the Bank’s profitability and growth. The Bank is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the “OCC”), as its chartering authority, by the FDIC, as insurer of deposits, and by the Federal Reserve Board as regulator of the Company. Changes in state and federal banking laws and regulations or in federal monetary policies could adversely affect its ability to maintain profitability and continue to grow. For example, new legislation or regulation could limit the manner in which the Bank may conduct its business, including its ability to obtain financing, attract deposits, make loans and achieve satisfactory interest spreads. Many of these regulations are intended to protect depositors, the public and the FDIC, not shareholders. In addition, the burden imposed by federal and state regulations may place the Bank at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors who are less regulated. The laws, regulations, interpretations and enforcement policies that apply to the Bank has been subject to significant, and sometimes retroactively applied, changes in recent years, and may change significantly in the future. Future legislation or government policy may also adversely affect the banking industry or its operations. A breach of information security could negatively affect the Bank’s earnings. Increasingly, the Bank depends upon data processing, communication and information exchange on a variety of computing platforms and networks, and over the internet to conduct our business. The Bank cannot be certain all our systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack, despite safeguards it has instituted. In addition, it relies on the services of a variety of vendors to meet its data processing and communication needs. If information security is breached, information can be lost or misappropriated, resulting in financial loss or costs to the Bank or damages to others. These costs or losses could materially exceed the amount of insurance coverage, if any, which would have an adverse effect on the Bank’s results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the Bank could suffer reputation damages, which also could materially adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 24 Table of Contents 