D. Risk Factors. An investment in the Company involves a high degree of risk. The following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating an investment in the Company. Since our only operating assets are minority holdings in StoreAge and Enargis Storage Solution Ltd. (“Enargis”), a number of the following risks relate to the Company’s investment in, and affiliation with, StoreAge and Enargis. Voluntarily liquidation of the Company. In July 2004 our shareholders approved the voluntary liquidation of the Company. The only operating assets of the Company are minority holdings in StoreAge and Enargis. As of July 29, 2004 the Company had approximately $200,000 in cash and short-term investments and no foreseeable prospects of income. The Company believes that it is in its best interests and those of its shareholders not to use the Company’s remaining cash to pay legal, auditing, listing fees, director fees, to maintain directors and officers liability insurance and other ongoing company expenses which can be avoided or reduced by voluntary liquidation, without harming the ability to realize the Company’s minority holdings in StoreAge and Enargis. The only remaining purpose of the Company is to achieve the greatest possible return on these assets. The Company believes that its holdings in StoreAge may have significant value but the current realization value is not attractive. From time to time StoreAge has been involved in contacts with prospective purchasers but these contacts have not yet resulted in any definitive offer or agreement. Consequently, it would be beneficial to the Company and its shareholders to continue to hold this asset until an attractive exit alternative presents itself and the voluntary liquation of the Company would allow the Company to continue to manage this investment at the lowest possible cost until such time. Without voluntary liquidation, the financial resources of the Company may be depleted by the end of 2004. In addition, due to the Company’s financial situation, it has not been able to retain most of its directors and to locate new directors in order to comply with applicable legal requirements. See Item 4 – Information on the Company – Entry into Voluntary Liquidation. We have a history of substantial recurring operating losses and have no current prospects of revenues. We lost approximately $106,000 during the year ended December 31, 2005, $204,000 during the year ended December 31, 2004 and $ 134,000 during the year ended December 31, 2003. Our ability to achieve any future profits or gains depends entirely on the ability to realize significant value from our minority holdings in StoreAge and Enargis. 4 Since we have a minority ownership interest in StoreAge and Enargis, our interest in StoreAge’s and Enargis’ profits and our ability to direct their business affairs are limited. In October 2005, in contemplation of an initial public offering of StoreAge on the Alternative Investment Market of the London Stock Exchange, all classes of preferred shares of StoreAge and outstanding bridge loans were converted into ordinary shares of StoreAge based on the amount actually invested in StoreAge and all preferential shareholder rights were cancelled. Following this conversion we held 13% of the issued and outstanding share capital of StoreAge (11.74% on a fully diluted basis). The proposed initial public offering of StoreAge was aborted in November 2005 due to the inability of StoreAge to meet its sales forecast and decreased expected sales forecast.. Because we hold a diminished percentage interest in StoreAge, our shareholders also have a smaller indirect interest in StoreAge. We also do not control the board of directors of StoreAge. In addition, future financing needs of StoreAge are likely to require additional private or public equity financing, thus further diluting our ownership percentage. The significant ownership interest in StoreAge held by the Private Investors (which may be increased) and the rights granted to the Private Investors, including preferences in liquidation and receipt of dividends, registration rights and various negative covenants and anti-dilution protection, will reduce the flexibility that we will have in the operation and any future disposition of StoreAge. We have very limited cash resources and any additional raising of capital may lead to significant dilution. Since we presently do not expect to conduct future business other than holding minority interests in StoreAge and Enargis, we believe that our existing cash on hand will be sufficient to meet our working capital requirements, including normal capital expenditures, until at least June 30, 2006. In the event that we are unable to sell our holdings in StoreAge or Enargis by the time our financial resources are depleted, we may have to raise additional financing. Any additional financing may not be available when required or at acceptable terms and may result in significant dilution to our shareholders. Future capital needs of StoreAge and Enargis will result in dilution of our holdings. As far as the Company is aware, StoreAge’s existing cash on hand will be sufficient to meet its working capital requirements, including normal capital expenditures, until February 28, 2006. Enargis has been funded primarily from shareholder loans which are subject to repayment on demand. Continued losses could reduce StoreAge’s and Enargis’ working capital and cash equivalents, which could adversely affect their future operations unless they secure additional financing. In addition, StoreAge and Enargis may need to raise funds in order to finance their sales and marketing operations. If financing is not available when required or is not available on acceptable terms, StoreAge and Enargis may be unable to take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures; however, the dilution resulting from any additional equity financing to StoreAge and Enargis will decrease the value of our holdings in such companies. Competition from other companies that have greater resources than StoreAge and Enargis could adversely affect them. The markets in which the products of StoreAge and Enargis are being sold, especially in the United States, are highly competitive. Most of the competitors of StoreAge and Enargis have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources than these companies. Our business prospects may suffer if StoreAge and Enargis are unable to keep up with the rapid technological developments in the storage industry. The market for StoreAge’s and Enargis’ products is characterized by rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards. The introduction of new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards can render existing products obsolete and unmarketable. StoreAge’s ability to anticipate such changes and to develop and introduce successfully new and enhanced products on a timely basis will be a very significant factor in its ability to grow and to remain competitive. StoreAge will need to make substantial expenditures (including commitments to pay royalties) for research, development and introduction of new products. If either StoreAge or Enargis is unable, for technological or other reasons, to develop products in response to changes in the industry, its business and our prospects will be materially and adversely affected. We cannot assure you that StoreAge and Enargis will not encounter technical or other difficulties that could delay the introduction of new products in the future. If either StoreAge or Enargis is unable to introduce new products in response to changes in the industry, its business and the value of our holdings in such company will be materially and adversely affected. 5 If there are changes in StoreAge’s and Enargis’ future customers’ requirements, their business may suffer. The markets for computer and storage technology equipment are changing rapidly and often unpredictably. Changes in customer requirements and preferences, introduction or modification of new industry standards, or variations in the relative cost-effectiveness of different storage technology solutions could adversely affect its growth and future financial performance. If future customer requirements differ from those projected by StoreAge and Enargis, their future product sales would be adversely affected. We currently do not comply with Israeli law board of directors and audit committee requirements. The Israeli Companies Law requires that we have at least two external directors who comply with certain criteria. In addition, the Israeli Companies Law requires that our audit committee must be composed of at least three directors, including both external directors. The chairman of the board of directors, any director employed by or otherwise providing services to us, and a controlling shareholder or any relative of a controlling shareholder, may not be a member of the audit committee. Since April 2003, we have not complied with these requirements due to the resignation of certain directors and our inability to attract additional directors. Since April 1, 2004 we do not maintain directors and officers insurance due to the cost involved. We can give no assurance that we shall be able to retain existing directors or attract new directors in order to comply with the applicable statutory requirements. See “Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees.” In addition, none of the members of our audit committee meets the definition of an audit committee financial expert, as defined in Item 16A of Form 20-F. Anti-takeover provisions could negatively impact our shareholders. Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of our Company, which could prevent a change of control and therefore depress the price of our stock. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers and acquisitions of shares through tender offers in certain circumstances, requires special approvals for transactions involving significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. Because our board of directors is classified, it could hinder a merger, proxy contest or tender offer, whether or not they would be beneficial to our shareholders. The classification of our board of directors could delay or impede the removal of incumbent directors and could therefore complicate a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us, even if such events would be beneficial to the interests of our shareholders, or could discourage a third party from attempting to acquire control of the Company. A substantial number of our shares can be sold in the future under Rule 144, which could lower the price of our shares. Existing shareholders may sell Ordinary Shares pursuant to Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, or otherwise. Such sales could adversely affect the price of the Ordinary Shares. We cannot predict the effect that future sales of the Ordinary Shares, or the availability of the Ordinary Shares for future sales, will have on the market price of the Ordinary Shares. Prevailing market prices for the Ordinary Shares could drop if substantial amounts of the Ordinary Shares are sold, or if others perceive that such sales could occur. The delisting of our Ordinary Shares from the Nasdaq SmallCap Market has decreased the liquidity and increased the volatility of our Ordinary Shares. Our Ordinary Shares were delisted from the Nasdaq SmallCap Market effective January 23, 2003 and currently trade in the over-the-counter market. The delisting of the Company’s Ordinary Shares from The Nasdaq SmallCap Market has materially and adversely decreased the liquidity and market price of the Ordinary Shares, and may increase both volatility and the “spread” between bid and asked prices of the shares. Our financial results may be adversely affected by inflation and currency fluctuations. Since our functional currency is the U.S dollar and we report our financial results in dollars, fluctuations in rates of exchange between the dollar and non-dollar currencies (including the NIS) may have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. We do not currently engage in any currency hedging transactions intended to reduce the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on our results of operations. We cannot guarantee that we will not enter into such transactions in the future or that such measures will adequately protect us from serious harm due to the impact of inflation in Israel. 6 Our U.S. investors could suffer adverse tax consequences if we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company. Based on our current and projected income, assets and activities, we believe that, until we complete a merger with another operating business, we may be considered a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) We would be a PFIC if either (i) 75% or more of our gross income is passive income, or (ii) at least 50% of the average value of all of our assets for the taxable year produce or are held for the production of passive income. For this purpose, passive income includes dividends, interest, royalties, rents, annuities and the excess of gains over losses from the disposition of assets which produce passive income. If we were determined to be a PFIC for U.S. Federal income tax purposes, highly complex rules would apply to U.S. Holders owning Ordinary Shares. Accordingly, shareholders are urged to consult their tax advisors regarding the application of such rules. Additionally, our U.S. shareholders should review “Item 10. Additional Information – Taxation- U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations-Passive Foreign Investments Companies” for a more detailed description of the PFIC rules and how they may affect their ownership of our Ordinary Shares. StoreAge’s and Enargis’ proprietary technology enjoys only limited protection; third party claims of infringement could harm their business. StoreAge has limited patent protection for its products. StoreAge and Enargis have attempted to protect their proprietary software and other intellectual property rights through trade secrets, nondisclosure agreements and other measures. StoreAge has applied for several patents for its technology. We cannot assure you, however, that StoreAge will receive these patents and/or be able to protect its proprietary software and other intellectual property rights adequately or that competitors, all of whom have legitimate access to any non proprietary technical standards utilized by StoreAge, will not be able to develop similar technology independently. For example, a number of StoreAge’s competitors are producing or plan to produce products that incorporate Virtualization technology. Enargis does not have any patents or patent applications. Third parties may from time to time notify StoreAge or Enargis that it may be infringing patents owned by or proprietary rights of third parties, although no such claims are currently pending against StoreAge or Enargis. If necessary, StoreAge or Enargis may have to seek a license under any such patent or redesign or modify its products and processes in order to avoid infringement of such patents. There can be no assurance that such a license would be available on acceptable terms, if at all, or that StoreAge or Enargis could so avoid infringement of such patents, in which case the business of, financial position and results of operations of StoreAge and Enargis could be materially and adversely affected. There has been substantial litigation in the technology industry regarding intellectual property rights, and litigation may be necessary to protect StoreAge’s and Enargis’ proprietary technology. It is also possible that StoreAge and Enargis will increasingly have to litigate infringement claims with companies in the storage system market, as the number of competitive products and companies grow. Any such claims or litigation may be time consuming and costly, cause product shipment delays, require StoreAge and Enargis to redesign or modify their products or require them to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, any of which could have a material adverse effect on their business, operating results or financial condition. Despite their efforts to protect their proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of StoreAge’s and Enargis’ products or to obtain and use information that they regard as proprietary. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States. There can be no assurance that StoreAge’s and Enargis’ means of protecting its proprietary rights will be adequate or that their competitors will not independently develop similar technology or duplicate their products or designs. StoreAge’s and Enargis’ business depends on a limited number of key personnel, the loss of whom could adversely affect them. The continued success of each of StoreAge and Enargis depends to a significant extent upon the performance of one of their senior executives. Neither StoreAge nor Enargis maintains key-man life insurance policies covering any of their executives. The loss of this senior executive’s services would likely have a material adverse effect on StoreAge or Enargis, as the case may be. 7 StoreAge depends on a limited number of key suppliers of key components to manufacture its products. StoreAge’s reliance on a limited number of suppliers for key components of its products, the absence of long term purchase agreements with those suppliers, the fact that StoreAge is likely to maintain only minimum inventory levels and the fact that there may be a significant market demand for those components involve several risks in addition to inadequate supply. These risks include potential price increases, selective supply allocations, late deliveries and poor component quality. We cannot assure you that StoreAge will not experience shortages of key components in the future or that StoreAge will not be subject to selective supply allocations and increased prices of components. Any shortage of key components and any delay or other difficulty in obtaining such components from other suppliers and integrating them into StoreAge’s products could materially and adversely affect StoreAge’s business, financial position and results of operations. StoreAge depends on a subcontractor to manufacture its products. StoreAge depends on a subcontractor to manufacture its products. StoreAge’s future results of operations will be dependent in large part upon its ability to have products manufactured and delivered promptly upon the receipt of orders and to provide prompt and efficient service to its customers. As a result, any disruption of its day to day operations, or the day-to-day operations of its subcontractor, could have a material adverse effect upon StoreAge. StoreAge’s operations, including, research, marketing, customer service and distribution functions, are based in and managed from a single facility in Israel. StoreAge relies on the manufacturing facilities of a subcontractor that is based in and managed from a small number of facilities in Israel. A fire, flood, earthquake or other disaster or condition affecting these facilities could disable these functions. Any such damage to, or other condition interfering with the operation of, these facilities would have a material adverse effect on the business of StoreAge and its financial position and results of operations. StoreAge and Enargis are subject to warranty claims for defective products. Products offered by StoreAge and Enargis may contain defects in hardware, software or workmanship and products offered by Enargis may contain software defects, in each case, that remain undetected until after commercial shipment. Any loss or delay in customer or market acceptance attributable to such defects or any material replacement or repair expenses due to any such defects could have a material adverse effect on their business, financial position and results of operations. Planned international expansion by StoreAge and Enargis will expose them to new risks. Both StoreAge and Enargis intend to expand their operations internationally. These efforts will require significant management attention and financial resources. There can be no assurance that these efforts will be successful. Although sales are effected in U.S. dollars, international sales are subject to a number of risks, including longer payment cycles, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, import and export restrictions and tariffs, the burden of complying with a variety of foreign laws, potentially adverse tax consequences, currency fluctuations, the imposition of currency exchange or price controls, and political and economic instability abroad. Enargis has not achieved significant sales and its future is uncertain. Since its incorporation, Enargis has been financed by shareholder loans from related party, West End Technology Investments Ltd. (“West End”), which is owned and controlled by Robi Hartman, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer and has not raised any funds through an external financing. Also Enargis has not attained significant sales revenues. In the event that Enargis does not succeed in raising funds in the near future, and West End ceases to finance it, it will be required to cease its operations. Risk Factors Relating to Our Operations in Israel Conducting business in Israel entails special risks. We are incorporated under the laws of, and our executive offices and research and development facilities, the State of Israel. Any major hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors, as well as incidents of civil unrest. Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners could adversely affect our operations. Since September 2000, terrorist violence in Israel has increased significantly and negotiations between Israel and Palestinian representatives have effectively ceased. The continued hostilities between the Palestinian community and Israel and the failure to settle the conflict has had and continues to have a material adverse effect on the Israeli economy and may have a material adverse effect on our business and that of StoreAge and Enargis. Further deterioration of hostilities might require more widespread military reserve service by our and StoreAge’s and Enargis’ employees that may have a material adverse effect on our business and that of StoreAge and Enargis. In addition, termination or reduction of certain governmental grants, programs and tax benefits could have a material adverse effect on StoreAge. We can give no assurance that security and political conditions will not have an impact on our business in the future. Hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners could adversely affect our operations and could make it more difficult for us to raise capital. 8 Anti takeover provisions could negatively impact our shareholders. Some of the provisions of Israeli law could: — discourage potential acquisition proposals; — delay or prevent a change in control over us; and — limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for our Ordinary Shares. Generally, under Israeli corporate law, a merger must be approved by the board of directors and the shareholders of each of the merging companies. If the share capital of the non-surviving company consisted of more than one class of shares, the approval of each class is also required. In certain cases, court approval is also required. Under the Companies Law, a merger may be completed only after 50 days have elapsed from the date all the necessary approvals and the merger proposals have been submitted to the Israeli Companies Registrar and at least 30 days have passed from the shareholders approval of each of the merging companies. The Companies Law also provides that an acquisition of shares of a public company must be made by means of a tender offer if, as a result of such acquisition, the purchaser would become a 25% or more shareholder of the company. This rule does not apply if there is already another 25% shareholder of the company. Similarly, the Companies Law provides that an acquisition of shares in a public company must be made by means of tender offer if, as a result of the acquisition, the purchaser would become a 45% shareholder of the company, unless someone else already holds a majority of the voting power of the company. These rules may not apply if the acquisition is made by way of a merger. The requirements of Israeli corporate law generally make these forms of acquisition significantly more difficult than under United States corporate laws. Other potential means of acquiring a public Israeli company might involve significant obstacles, such as a requirement for court approval for the acquisition. In addition, a significant body of case law has not yet developed with respect to many aspects of the new Companies Law. Until this happens, uncertainties will exist regarding its interpretation. Service and enforcement of legal process on us and our directors and officers may be difficult to obtain. Service of process upon our directors and officers and the Israeli experts named herein, all of whom reside outside the United States, may be difficult to obtain within the United States. Furthermore, all of our assets, and all of our directors and the Israeli experts named in this annual report are located outside the United States, any judgment obtained in the United States against us or these individuals or entities may not be collectible within the United States. There is doubt as to the enforceability of civil liabilities under the Securities Act and the Securities Exchange Act in original actions instituted in Israel. However, subject to certain time limitations and other conditions, Israeli courts may enforce final judgments of U.S. courts for liquidated amounts in civil matters, including judgments based upon the civil liability provisions of those acts. If a foreign judgment is enforced by an Israeli court, it generally will be payable in Israeli currency. Judgment creditors must bear the risk of unfavorable exchange rates. 9 