D. Risk Factors The following risk factors, among others, could in the future affect our actual results of operations and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements made by us. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and we assume no obligation to update this information. Before you decide to buy, hold, or sell our Ordinary Shares, you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained elsewhere in this annual report. The following risk factors are not the only risk factors facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. Our business, financial condition and results of operation could be seriously harmed if any of the events underlying any of these risks or uncertainties actually occurs. In that event, the market price for our Ordinary Shares could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Substantially all of our assets and those of Witech are encumbered to secure loans. We have agreed to pledge the bank account of CDRide Corp., the subsidiary of Witech through which substantially all of the revenues from amusement parks in the United States are deposited, as security for a short-term loan received by CDRide which is also guaranteed by us and Witech. The loan is due and payable on June 30, 2008 but the lender has indicated its agreement to extend the repayment date to allow us to raise additional financing. Although we are in advanced negotiations with investors to raise financing to repay this loan there can be no assurance that we will succeed in raising the required financing and the inability to repay, refinance or further extend the loan could result in the loss of substantially all of our revenues and elimination of all shareholder value or prospects. In addition, our inability to repay this loan may lead to acceleration of convertible loans received by us in November 2007 and January 2008 (which are not due until November 2010 and January 2011, respectively) which are secured by a floating charge on all our assets. Our acquisition of Witech Communications Ltd contains various risks. On January 2, 2008 we acquired all the outstanding shares of Witech, which is engaged in the development, sale, operation and support of wireless video transmission systems for use on roller coasters and thrill rides in amusement parks as well as other moving attractions. The acquisition resulted in the dilution of our existing shareholders as the shareholders of Witech received approximately 50% of our issued and outstanding shares following the transaction. Witech’s business is subject to various risks such as rapid changes in technology, competition, need for substantial working capital, dependence on amusement park seasonality, risks relating to expansion of its business and international operations, risk of lawsuits and liability and dependence on relationships with a relatively small number of companies who own and operate amusement parks worldwide. Witech and IIS have a history of substantial recurring operating losses and we depend on Witech’s future success for any future income; there is doubt as to Witech’s ability to continue as a going concern. IIS lost $103,000 during the year ended December 31, 2007. During the year ended December 31, 2006 we had an operating loss of $74,000, but showed a net income of $4,639,000 due to the sale of our holdings in StoreAge. Our operating costs have increased in 2007 due to the termination of our voluntary liquidation proceedings in April 2007 and these costs have further increased significantly due to the Witech transaction. We currently have no material assets other than a limited amount of cash, the loans granted to Witech and the shares of Witech. Our ability to achieve any future revenues and to generate profits or gains depends entirely on Witech’s revenues and profitability. We cannot assure you that Witech will prove commercially successful, or that our investment in Witech will be profitable. Witech’s net sales revenues in the years that ended December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007 were $25,000, $272,000 and $1,524,000, respectively. However, Witech’s net losses for the years that ended December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007 were $454,000, $2,016,000 and $5,359,000, respectively. Witech has accumulated net losses for the period from inception (February 1, 2004) through December 31, 2007 of $8,105 thousands. Currently, Witech does not have sufficient cash resources to meet its requirements in the twelve months following January 1, 2008. These factors raise substantial doubt about Witech’s ability to continue as a going concern. Management is in the process of evaluating various financing alternatives. 5 Witech’s financial statements do not include any adjustments that may be necessary should Witech be unable to continue as a going concern. Witech’s continuation as a going concern is dependent on its ability to obtain additional financing as may be required and ultimately to attain profitability. We have very limited cash resources and any additional raising of capital may lead to significant dilution; Witech may have to cease operations if it does not receive additional funding. We anticipate that we will have to raise at least $2,500,000 of additional financing (net of expenses) to meet Witech’s operational requirements until December 31, 2008; however, we intend to raise up to $4,000,000 of additional financing in order to finance and grow Witech’s business. There can be no assurance that this financing will be available at acceptable terms or at all and in any case it will result in the dilution of existing shareholders. Since Witech has a limited number of customers, loss of any one customer in the future as they build their customer base could hurt its business. Approximately 67% of revenues of Witech in 2007 were derived from two amusement park chains operating 11 amusement parks. Although Witech generally enters into long-term contracts with most of its customers, loss of one or more of these principal chains or a material decrease in orders could materially and adversely affect its business, financial position and results of operations. Our future growth will depend upon market acceptance of Witech and the development of the market for its products. Witech’s success depends on the acceptance of its products and technologies, development of new products and features and the development of the targeted markets. In 2005, Witech launched its on-ride video system, which we believe to be one of the first and leading on-ride technologies. During 2005, 2006 and 2007 Witech invested, and we expect to continue to invest in 2008, in developing Witech’s on-ride video system and in creating and increasing its market acceptance. There is no assurance that the market or demand for on-ride technologies, such as Witech’s on-ride video system, will develop as rapidly as we expect or at all, or even if such market develops, that we will be successful in marketing and selling Witech’s on-ride video system and growing revenues to justify our investments. In particular, we believe that successful positioning of Witech’s on-ride video system is a critical factor in its ability to achieve growth. Our results may be adversely affected by competition. The market for our products is fragmented and intensely competitive. Competition in the industry is generally based on product performance, technical support and price. We compete with international providers, many of whom have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we have. We anticipate continued growth and competition in the on-ride technology market and, consequently, the entrance of new competitors into the market. Our existing and potential competitors, such as Ridercam GmbH and Socrates Digital Video B.V. who compete with our on-ride video system and Yourday and Colorvison who have off-ride video systems who also compete with our on-ride video system, may be able to develop software products and services that are as effective as, or more effective or easier to use than those offered by us. Such existing and potential competitors may also enjoy substantial advantages over us in terms of research and development expertise, manufacturing efficiency, name recognition, sales and marketing expertise and distribution channels. In addition, three of the largest ride photo companies, Kodak, Colorvision and Picsolve, currently have corporate sponsorship agreements with a number of large park chains. These sponsorship agreements often give the sponsor exclusive rights for all digital media services in the parks. When supplying systems to parks with sponsorship agreements, we may have to split part of the revenues with the sponsor. These agreements may limit Witech’s potential growth into new park chains. We anticipate the need of Witech to enter into its own sponsorship agreements in the future, but it may need to wait for the current agreements to expire. Although these agreements are typically for three years, there is no assurance that the agreements will not be renewed with the current sponsors. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competition will not have a material adverse effect on our future revenues and, consequently, on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our operating results may vary quarterly and seasonally. Witech recognizes a substantial portion of its revenues in the months of June through September. Our operating results reflect seasonal trends and we expect to continue to be affected by such trends in the future, primarily in the first and fourth quarters, when we expect to continue to experience relatively lower sales as a result of reduced sales activity in North America during the winter months. Due to the foregoing factors, in some future quarters our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In such event, it is likely that the price of our Ordinary Shares would be materially adversely affected. 6 Our operating results fluctuate significantly. Our quarterly results have fluctuated significantly in the past and are likely to fluctuate significantly in the future. Our future operating results will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to, the following: — the size and timing of significant orders and their fulfillment; — demand for our products; — changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; — the number, timing and significance of product enhancements; — new product announcements by us and our competitors; — our ability to successfully market newly acquired products and technologies; — our ability to develop, introduce and market new and enhanced products on a timely basis; — changes in the level of our operating expenses; — budgeting cycles of our customers; — customer order deferrals in anticipation of enhancements or new products that we or our competitors offer; — product life cycles; — software bugs and other product quality problems; — personnel changes; — changes in our strategy; — seasonal trends and general domestic and international economic and political conditions, among others; — currency exchange rate fluctuations and economic conditions in the geographic areas where we operate; and — the inherent uncertainty in marketing new products or technologies. Due to the foregoing factors, quarterly revenues and operating results are difficult to forecast, and it is likely that these or other factors will adversely affect our future operating results. Revenues are also difficult to forecast because our sales cycle varies from customer to customer. In light of the foregoing, we cannot predict revenues for any future quarter with any significant degree of accuracy. Accordingly, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and you should not rely upon them as indications of future performance. Although we have experienced revenue growth in the past, we may not be able to sustain this growth rate, and you should not consider such past growth indicative of future revenue growth, or of future operating results. We are subject to risks associated with international operations. Witech and IIS are based in Israel, but Witech generates almost all its revenues from North America. We intend to increase Witech’s marketing and sales efforts in Europe and the Far East in order to sign agreements with customers in these areas. Although we commit significant management time and financial resources to developing direct and indirect international sales and support channels, we cannot be certain that we will be able to generate or maintain international market demand for our products. To the extent that we cannot do so in a timely manner, our business, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. As we conduct business globally, our future results could also be adversely affected by a variety of uncontrollable and changing factors and inherent risks, including the following: — the impact of possible recessionary environments in multiple foreign markets; — unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; — difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; — reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; — potentially adverse tax consequences; and — political and economic instability. 7 We cannot be certain that we will be able to sustain or increase revenues from international operations or that the foregoing factors will not have a material adverse effect on our future revenues and, as a result, on our business, operating results and financial condition. The loss of the services of our key personnel may negatively affect our business. Our future success depends to a large extent on the continued services of our senior management and key personnel, including, in particular, Charles Moss, David Elooz, Eliyahu Cohen and Ronen Segal. Any loss of the services of members of our senior management or other key personnel, and especially those of Messrs. Moss, Elooz, Cohen and Segal, particularly to a competitor, may adversely affect our business. Witech is subject to risks relating to proprietary rights and risks of infringement. Witech has limited patent protection. It is dependent upon its proprietary software technology and Witech relies primarily on a combination of copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect its proprietary rights. Except for Witech’s pending patent applications for a system and method for filming and recording attractions in the United States, Europe and Japan, it does not have any trademark, patent or copyright registrations. To protect Witech’s software, documentation and other written materials, it relies on trade secret and copyright laws, which afford only limited protection. It is possible that others will develop technologies that are similar or superior to Witech’s technology. Despite its efforts to protect its proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of Witech’s products or to obtain and use information that Witech regards as proprietary. It is difficult to police the unauthorized use of products in our field, and Witech expects software piracy to be a persistent problem, although it is unable to determine the extent to which piracy of its software products exists. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect Witech’s proprietary rights as fully as do the laws of the United States. Witech cannot be certain that its means of protecting its proprietary rights in the United States or abroad will be adequate or that its competition will not independently develop similar technology. Witech is not aware if it has infringed any proprietary rights of third parties. It is possible, however, that third parties will claim that Witech has infringed upon their intellectual property rights. Witech believes that software product developers will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in its industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. It would be time consuming for Witech to defend any such claims, with or without merit, and any such claims could: — result in costly litigation; — divert management's attention and resources; — cause product shipment delays; and — require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If there is a successful claim of infringement against us and we are not able to license the infringed or similar technology or other intellectual property, our business, operating results and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. Technological changes may adversely affect the market acceptance of our products and services. We compete in a market that is characterized by technological changes and improvements and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. The introduction of new technologies and products could render existing products and services obsolete and unmarketable and could exert price pressures on our products and services. Any future success will depend upon our ability to address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers by, among others: — supporting existing and emerging hardware, software, databases and networking platforms; and — developing and introducing new and enhanced applications that keep pace with such technological developments, emerging new markets and changing customer requirements. 8 Witech’s products may contain defects that may be costly to correct, delay market acceptance of its products, harm our reputation and expose us to litigation. Despite testing by Witech, errors may be found in its software products. If defects are discovered, Witech may not be able to successfully correct them in a timely manner, or at all. Defects and failures in its products could result in a loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of Witech’s products and could damage its reputation. Although Witech’s standard license agreement with its customers contains provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims, it is possible that these provisions may not be effective or enforceable under the laws of some jurisdictions, and Witech could fail to realize revenues and suffer damage to its reputation as a result of, or in defense of, a substantial claim. Our efforts to increase our presence in North America, Europe and Asia may not be profitable. Our success in becoming a stronger competitor in the sale of our on-ride technology is dependent upon our ability to increase our sales in North America, Europe and Asia. Our efforts to increase our presence in these markets are subject to risks inherent to such markets, including the high cost of doing business in such locations. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our Ordinary Shares in the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our Ordinary Shares in the foreseeable future under our current financial condition. Future dividend distributions are subject to the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on various factors, including our operating results, future earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, tax implications of dividend distributions on our income, future prospects and any other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. The distribution of dividends also may be limited by Israeli law, which permits the distribution of dividends only out of profits (as defined by Israeli law) or otherwise upon the permission of the court. You should not rely on an investment in our company if you require dividend income from your investment. The success of your investment will likely depend entirely upon any future appreciation of the market price of our Ordinary Shares, which is uncertain and unpredictable. There is no guarantee that our Ordinary Shares will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which you purchased your Ordinary Shares. A substantial number of our shares can be sold in the future under Rule 144, which could lower the price of our shares. Existing shareholders may sell Ordinary Shares pursuant to Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, or otherwise. Such sales could adversely affect the price of the Ordinary Shares. We cannot predict the effect that future sales of the Ordinary Shares, or the availability of the Ordinary Shares for future sales, will have on the market price of the Ordinary Shares. Prevailing market prices for the Ordinary Shares could drop if substantial amounts of the Ordinary Shares are sold, or if others perceive that such sales could occur. The delisting of our Ordinary Shares from the Nasdaq SmallCap Market has decreased the liquidity and increased the volatility of our Ordinary Shares. Our Ordinary Shares were delisted from the Nasdaq SmallCap Market effective January 23, 2003. In addition, after being traded on the OTC Bulletin Board from January 23, 2003 until August 23, 2004, the Company’s Ordinary Shares were delisted from the OTC Bulletin Board and until relisting in April 2008 were traded on the Pink Sheets Electronic Quotation Service. The delisting of the Company’s Ordinary Shares from The Nasdaq SmallCap Market and the OTC Bulletin Board has materially and adversely decreased the liquidity and market price of the Ordinary Shares, and may increase both volatility and the “spread” between bid and asked prices of the shares. Our share price may be volatile. The market price of our Ordinary Shares may fluctuate following the announcement of financial results or new product introductions by Witech or its competitors or other matters such as military, political or economic developments in the Middle East and the market for technology stocks generally. 9 Our financial results may be adversely affected by inflation and currency fluctuations. Since our functional currency is the U.S dollar and we report our financial results in dollars, fluctuations in rates of exchange between the dollar and non-dollar currencies (including the NIS) may have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. We are exposed to the risk of fluctuation in the U.S. dollar/shekel exchange rate. In 2007, we derived almost all of our revenues in U.S. dollars, however, a material portion of our expenses were denominated in shekels. Our NIS-denominated expenses consist principally of salaries and related personnel expenses. We anticipate that a material portion of our expenses will continue to be denominated in shekels. If the U.S. dollar depreciates against the NIS, this will adversely effect our profit margins. We do not currently engage in any currency hedging transactions intended to reduce the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on our results of operations. We cannot guarantee that we will not enter into such transactions in the future or that such measures will adequately protect us from serious harm due to the impact of inflation in Israel or the United States. The future issuance of warrants to certain IIS shareholders will dilute other shareholders. As previously determined by our Board of Directors and publicly announced, subject to and following compliance with applicable Israeli and United States securities laws and regulations, we intend to issue, for no additional consideration, to all shareholders of IIS of record as of November 9, 2007, warrants to purchase an aggregate of 4,600,000 of our Ordinary Shares, on a pro-rata basis according to the percentage holding of each such shareholder in the issued and outstanding share capital of IIS on such date. These warrants will be exercisable at the price of $0.44 per share. These warrants, when issued, will dilute all our shareholders who are not entitled to such warrants. Risk Factors Relating to Our Operations in Israel Conducting business in Israel entails special risks. We are incorporated under the laws of, and our executive offices and research and development facilities, and those of Witech are located in the State of Israel. Although most of Witech’s sales are made to customers outside of Israel, it is nonetheless directly affected by the political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel. Any of Witech’s manufacturing operations would be heavily dependent upon components imported from outside of Israel. Any major hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors, as well as incidents of civil unrest. During the summer of 2006, Israel was engaged in an armed conflict with Hezbollah, a Lebanese Islamist Shiite militia group and political party. This conflict involved missile strikes against civilian targets in northern Israel that resulted in economic losses. In 2007 and 2008, the region in Israel in proximity to the Gaza Strip has suffered ongoing rocket attacks originating from the Gaza Strip. Furthermore, several countries still restrict trade with Israeli companies and additional countries may impose such restrictions as a result of changes in the military and/or political conditions in Israel, which may limit our ability to make sales in, or purchase components from, those countries. Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners could adversely affect our operations. Since September 2000, terrorist violence in Israel has increased significantly and negotiations between Israel and Palestinian representatives have effectively ceased. Although Israel has entered into various agreements with its Arab neighbors and the Palestinian Authority, there has been an increase in unrest and terrorist activity in Israel, in varying levels of severity, since September 2000 through 2008. The establishment of a government in the Palestinian Authority in early 2006 by representatives of the Hamas militant group has created additional unrest and uncertainty in the region. In June 2008, an informal cease fire was reached between Israel and the Palestinian factions in the Gaza Strip but there was be no assurance that hostilities will not escalate again. We can give no assurance that security and political conditions will not have an impact on our business in the future. Hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners could adversely affect our operations and could make it more difficult for us to raise capital. 10 Our results of operations may be negatively affected by the obligation of our personnel to perform military service. Many of our executive officers and employees in Israel are obligated to perform annual reserve duty in the Israeli Defense Forces and may be called for active duty under emergency circumstances at any time. If a military conflict or war arises, these individuals could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our executive officers or key employees or a significant number of other employees due to military service. Any disruption in our operations could adversely affect our business. Because Witech received grants from the Israeli Office of the Chief Scientist, it is subject to ongoing restrictions. Witech received royalty-bearing grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Israeli Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor for research and development programs that meet specified criteria. Witech is obligated to pay royalties with respect to the grants received. In addition, the terms of the Chief Scientist grants limit its ability to manufacture products or transfer technologies outside of Israel if such products or technologies were developed using know-how developed with or based upon Chief Scientist grants. Any non-Israeli who becomes a holder of 5% or more of Witech’s share capital is generally required to notify the Chief Scientist and to undertake to observe the law governing the grant programs of the Chief Scientist, the principal restrictions of which are the transferability limits described above. Under current Israeli law, we may not be able to enforce covenants not to compete and therefore may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of some of its former employees. Witech has entered into non-competition agreements with substantially all of its employees. These agreements prohibit our employees, for a limited period after they cease working for Witech, from competing directly with Witech or working for our competitors. Under current Israeli law, Witech may be unable to enforce these agreements, and it may be difficult for Witech to restrict its competitors from gaining access to the expertise its former employees gained while working for Witech. For example, Israeli courts have concluded that an employer seeking to enforce a non-competition agreement of a former employee must demonstrate that the competitive activities of the former employee will harm one of a limited number of material interests of the employer which have been recognized by the courts, such as the secrecy of a company’s confidential commercial information or its intellectual property. If Witech cannot demonstrate that such harm would result, Witech may be unable to prevent its competitors from benefiting from the expertise of its former employees. We may be adversely affected if the rate of inflation in Israel exceeds the rate of devaluation of the new Israeli shekel against the U.S. dollar. A portion of our expenses, primarily labor expenses, is incurred in NIS. As a result, we are exposed to the risk that the rate of inflation in Israel will exceed the rate of devaluation of the NIS in relation to the U.S. dollar or that the timing of this devaluation lags behind inflation in Israel. In 2004, 2006 and 2007 the U.S. dollar devaluated against the NIS by 1.6%, 8.2% and 8.97%, respectively, while in 2005, the U.S. dollar appreciated against the NIS by 6.8%. We may be materially and adversely affected in the future if the rate of inflation in Israel exceeds the devaluation of the NIS against the U.S. dollar or if the timing of this devaluation lags behind increases in inflation in Israel. Anti takeover provisions could negatively impact our shareholders. Some of the provisions of Israeli law could: — discourage potential acquisition proposals; — delay or prevent a change in control over us; and — limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for our Ordinary Shares. 11 Generally, under Israeli corporate law, the board of directors and the shareholders of each of the merging companies must approve a merger. If the share capital of the non-surviving company consisted of more than one class of shares, the approval of each class is also required. In certain cases, court approval is also required. Under the Companies Law, a merger may be completed only after 50 days have elapsed from the date all the necessary approvals and the merger proposals have been submitted to the Israeli Companies Registrar and at least 30 days have passed from the shareholders approval of each of the merging companies. The Companies Law also provides that an acquisition of shares of a public company must be made by means of a tender offer if, as a result of such acquisition, the purchaser would become a 25% or more shareholder of the company. This rule does not apply if there is already another 25% shareholder of the company. Similarly, the Companies Law provides that an acquisition of shares in a public company must be made by means of tender offer if, as a result of the acquisition, the purchaser would become a 45% shareholder of the company, unless someone else already holds a majority of the voting power of the company. These rules may not apply if the acquisition is made by way of a merger. The requirements of Israeli corporate law generally make these forms of acquisition significantly more difficult than under United States corporate laws. Other potential means of acquiring a public Israeli company might involve significant obstacles, such as a requirement for court approval for the acquisition. In addition, a significant body of case law has not yet developed with respect to many aspects of the new Companies Law. Until this happens, uncertainties will exist regarding its interpretation. Service and enforcement of legal process on us and our directors and officers may be difficult to obtain. Service of process upon our directors and officers and the Israeli experts named herein, all of whom reside outside the United States, may be difficult to obtain within the United States. Furthermore, all of our assets, and all of our directors and the Israeli experts named in this annual report are located outside the United States, any judgment obtained in the United States against us or these individuals or entities may not be collectible within the United States. There is doubt as to the enforceability of civil liabilities under the Securities Act and the Securities Exchange Act in original actions instituted in Israel. However, subject to certain time limitations and other conditions, Israeli courts may enforce final judgments of U.S. courts for liquidated amounts in civil matters, including judgments based upon the civil liability provisions of those acts. If a foreign judgment is enforced by an Israeli court, it generally will be payable in Israeli currency. Judgment creditors must bear the risk of unfavorable exchange rates. Your rights and responsibilities as a shareholder will be governed by Israeli Law and differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under U.S. law. We are incorporated under Israeli law. The rights and responsibilities of holders of our Ordinary Shares are governed by our memorandum of association, articles of association and by Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in typical U.S. corporations. In particular, a shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith in exercising his or her rights and fulfilling his or her obligations toward the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing his power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at the general meeting of shareholders on certain matters. Israeli law provides that these duties are applicable in shareholder votes at the general meeting with respect to, among other things, amendments to a company’s articles of association, increases in a company’s authorized share capital, mergers and actions and transactions involving interests of officers, directors or other interested parties which require the shareholders’ general meeting’s approval. In addition, a controlling shareholder of an Israeli company or a shareholder who knows that he or she possesses the power to determine the outcome of a vote at a meeting of our shareholders, or who has, by virtue of the company’s articles of association, the power to appoint or prevent the appointment of an office holder in the company, or any other power with respect to the company, has a duty of fairness toward the company. The Israeli Companies Law does not establish criteria for determining whether or not a shareholder has acted in good faith. Moreover, the law is relatively new and there is no case law available on the duty of a non-controlling shareholder to act in good faith. As a foreign private issuer, we may follow certain home country corporate governance practices. As a foreign private issuer, we are permitted to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain requirements applicable to domestic private issuers. As a foreign private issuer, we may follow home country practice with regard to, among other things, composition of the board of directors, director nomination procedure, compensation of officers, quorum at shareholders’ meetings and contents of proxy statements. In addition, we may follow our home country law, which requires that we obtain shareholder approval for certain dilutive events, such as for the establishment or amendment of certain equity based compensation plans, an issuance that will result in a change of control of the company, certain transactions other than a public offering involving issuances of a 20% or more interest in the company and certain acquisitions of the stock or assets of another company. 12 