D. Risk Factors. An investment in the Company involves a high degree of risk. The following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating an investment in the Company. Our contemplated merger with Witech Communications Ltd contains various risks. We have no operations and we are contemplating a merger with Witech Communications Ltd., an Israeli company (“Witech”), engaged in the development, sale, operation and support of wireless video transmission systems for use on roller coasters and thrill rides in amusement parks as well as other moving attractions. We are still conducting financial and legal due diligence investigations with respect to Witech and our board of directors and shareholders have no yet approved the merger. By June 30, 2007 we provided $2,350,000 in loans to Witech and we provided an additional loan of $650,000 to Witech during July 2007 and an additional loan of $200,000 during August 2007. There can be no assurance that the merger will be approved or consummated. If the merger is not consummated, Witech may have difficulty in repaying the loans provided by us and, if Witech is in default, we may not be able to recoup our loans through exercise of the charge on Witech’s assets. Our management and resources are currently focused almost entirely on due diligence of Witech and monitoring Witech’s business and development. In the event that the merger with Witech is not consummated for any reason, we will have to spend time and management resources in locating another suitable business opportunity. The merger, if consummated, will result in an immediate dilution to our existing shareholders as the shareholders of Witech will receive 50% of our issued and outstanding shares following the merger. Witech’s business is subject to various risks such as rapid technological changes in technology, competition, need for substantial working capital, dependence on amusement park seasonality, risks relating to expansion of its business and international operations, risk of lawsuits and liability and dependence on relationships with a relatively small number of companies who own and operate amusement parks worldwide. We have a history of substantial recurring operating losses and have no current prospects of revenues. We lost approximately $106,000 during the year ended December 31, 2005 and $204,000 during the year ended December 31, 2004. During the year ended December 31, 2006 we had an operating loss of $74,000, but showed a net income of $4,639,000 due to the sale of our holdings in StoreAge. Our operating costs have increased in 2007 due to the termination of our voluntary liquidation proceedings in April 2007. We currently have no assets other than a limited amount of cash and our ability to achieve any future revenues and to generate profits or gains depends entirely on our ability to find an attractive business to acquire or to merge into us. 4 We have very limited cash resources and any additional raising of capital may lead to significant dilution. If the merger with Witech is consummated, we anticipate that we will have to raise additional financing to grow the business in the last quarter of 2007 or the first quarter of 2008. If the merger with Witech is not consummated, we will have to find other business opportunities that will also require us to raise additional financing. Any additional financing may not be available when required or at acceptable terms and may result in significant dilution to our shareholders. If financing is not available when required or is not available on acceptable terms, Witech may be unable to take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures. Anti-takeover provisions could negatively impact our shareholders. Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of our Company, which could prevent a change of control and therefore depress the price of our stock. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers and acquisitions of shares through tender offers in certain circumstances, requires special approvals for transactions involving significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. Because our board of directors is classified, it could hinder a merger, proxy contest or tender offer, whether or not they would be beneficial to our shareholders. The classification of our board of directors could delay or impede the removal of incumbent directors and could therefore complicate a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us, even if such events would be beneficial to the interests of our shareholders, or could discourage a third party from attempting to acquire control of the Company. A substantial number of our shares can be sold in the future under Rule 144, which could lower the price of our shares. Existing shareholders may sell Ordinary Shares pursuant to Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, or otherwise. Such sales could adversely affect the price of the Ordinary Shares. We cannot predict the effect that future sales of the Ordinary Shares, or the availability of the Ordinary Shares for future sales, will have on the market price of the Ordinary Shares. Prevailing market prices for the Ordinary Shares could drop if substantial amounts of the Ordinary Shares are sold, or if others perceive that such sales could occur. The delisting of our Ordinary Shares from the Nasdaq SmallCap Market has decreased the liquidity and increased the volatility of our Ordinary Shares. Our Ordinary Shares were delisted from the Nasdaq SmallCap Market effective January 23, 2003 and currently trade in the over-the-counter market. The delisting of the Company’s Ordinary Shares from The Nasdaq SmallCap Market has materially and adversely decreased the liquidity and market price of the Ordinary Shares, and may increase both volatility and the “spread” between bid and asked prices of the shares. Our share price may be volatile. The market price of our Ordinary Shares may fluctuate following the announcement of financial results or new product introductions by Witech or its competitors or other matters such as military, political or economic developments in the Middle East and the market for technology stocks generally. Our financial results may be adversely affected by inflation and currency fluctuations. Since our functional currency is the U.S dollar and we report our financial results in dollars, fluctuations in rates of exchange between the dollar and non-dollar currencies (including the NIS) may have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. We do not currently engage in any currency hedging transactions intended to reduce the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on our results of operations. We cannot guarantee that we will not enter into such transactions in the future or that such measures will adequately protect us from serious harm due to the impact of inflation in Israel. Our U.S. investors could suffer adverse tax consequences if we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company. Based on our current and projected income, assets and activities, we believe that, until we complete a merger with Witech or another operating business, we may be considered a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) We would be a PFIC if either (i) 75% or more of our gross income is passive income, or (ii) at least 50% of the average value of all of our assets for the taxable year produce or are held for the production of passive income. For this purpose, passive income includes dividends, interest, royalties, rents, annuities and the excess of gains over losses from the disposition of assets which produce passive income. If we were determined to be a PFIC for U.S. Federal income tax purposes, highly complex rules would apply to U.S. Holders owning Ordinary Shares. Accordingly, shareholders are urged to consult their tax advisors regarding the application of such rules. Additionally, our U.S. shareholders should review “Item 10. Additional Information – Taxation- U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations-Passive Foreign Investments Companies” for a more detailed description of the PFIC rules and how they may affect their ownership of our Ordinary Shares. 5 Risk Factors Relating to Our Operations in Israel Conducting business in Israel entails special risks. We are incorporated under the laws of, and our executive offices and research and development facilities, and those of Witech are located in, the State of Israel. Although most of Witech’s sales are made to customers outside Israel, it is nonetheless directly affected by the political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel. Any of Witech’s manufacturing operations would be heavily dependent upon components imported from outside of Israel. Any major hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors, as well as incidents of civil unrest. During the summer of 2006, Israel was engaged in an armed conflict with Hezbollah, a Lebanese Islamist Shiite militia group and political party. This conflict involved missile strikes against civilian targets in northern Israel that resulted in economic losses. Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners could adversely affect our operations. Since September 2000, terrorist violence in Israel has increased significantly and negotiations between Israel and Palestinian representatives have effectively ceased. The establishment of a government in the Palestinian Authority in early 2006 by representatives of the Hamas militant group has created additional unrest and uncertainty in the region. We can give no assurance that security and political conditions will not have an impact on our business in the future. Hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners could adversely affect our operations and could make it more difficult for us to raise capital. Anti takeover provisions could negatively impact our shareholders. Some of the provisions of Israeli law could: — discourage potential acquisition proposals; — delay or prevent a change in control over us; and — limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for our Ordinary Shares. Generally, under Israeli corporate law, a merger must be approved by the board of directors and the shareholders of each of the merging companies. If the share capital of the non-surviving company consisted of more than one class of shares, the approval of each class is also required. In certain cases, court approval is also required. Under the Companies Law, a merger may be completed only after 50 days have elapsed from the date all the necessary approvals and the merger proposals have been submitted to the Israeli Companies Registrar and at least 30 days have passed from the shareholders approval of each of the merging companies. The Companies Law also provides that an acquisition of shares of a public company must be made by means of a tender offer if, as a result of such acquisition, the purchaser would become a 25% or more shareholder of the company. This rule does not apply if there is already another 25% shareholder of the company. Similarly, the Companies Law provides that an acquisition of shares in a public company must be made by means of tender offer if, as a result of the acquisition, the purchaser would become a 45% shareholder of the company, unless someone else already holds a majority of the voting power of the company. These rules may not apply if the acquisition is made by way of a merger. The requirements of Israeli corporate law generally make these forms of acquisition significantly more difficult than under United States corporate laws. Other potential means of acquiring a public Israeli company might involve significant obstacles, such as a requirement for court approval for the acquisition. In addition, a significant body of case law has not yet developed with respect to many aspects of the new Companies Law. Until this happens, uncertainties will exist regarding its interpretation. 6 Service and enforcement of legal process on us and our directors and officers may be difficult to obtain. Service of process upon our directors and officers and the Israeli experts named herein, all of whom reside outside the United States, may be difficult to obtain within the United States. Furthermore, all of our assets, and all of our directors and the Israeli experts named in this annual report are located outside the United States, any judgment obtained in the United States against us or these individuals or entities may not be collectible within the United States. There is doubt as to the enforceability of civil liabilities under the Securities Act and the Securities Exchange Act in original actions instituted in Israel. However, subject to certain time limitations and other conditions, Israeli courts may enforce final judgments of U.S. courts for liquidated amounts in civil matters, including judgments based upon the civil liability provisions of those acts. If a foreign judgment is enforced by an Israeli court, it generally will be payable in Israeli currency. Judgment creditors must bear the risk of unfavorable exchange rates. 