ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business and prospects are subject to many risks and uncertainties. The following items are representative of the risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could affect our business, our future performance and the outcome of the forward-looking statements we make. We may not be successful in our overall strategy, a key component of which is to focus on the marketing of advanced communications products and applications and related services. Our operating results may be adversely affected if we are not able to successfully position ourselves as a leader in the implementation of these new advanced communications technologies. To be successful, we must continue to: train our sales employees on the capabilities and technical specifications of these new technologies; train our services employees to service these new products and applications; develop relationships with new types of qualified service providers to supplement our internal capabilities; and develop new relationships with different disciplines and at higher management levels within our customers’ organizations. Because these technologies are still in the early stages of their development, we cannot predict whether the demand for advanced communications products, applications, and services, including IP telephony systems, will grow as fast as we anticipate; new technologies may cause the market to evolve in a manner different than we expect; technologies developed by manufacturers that we do not represent may become more accepted or the standard in our industry; or we may fail to achieve a leadership or profitable position as these market opportunities develop. We continue to invest significant resources to add Nortel products and services to our product line and our efforts may not produce satisfactory results. To extend our market reach and reduce our reliance on Avaya, we added the Nortel product line to our business in 2003. Since then, we have invested significant financial resources in the hiring and training of personnel to design, sell, install and maintain Nortel products, including most recently adding dedicated executive level sales management to this initiative. These investments may not produce the revenues and gross profits that we expect. The financial condition of Nortel is uncertain and actions they may take could hurt our operating results. In recent years, Nortel has endured severe financial difficulties, made significant senior management changes, and restated its financial results numerous times. Recent developments indicate that these financial and accounting difficulties may be subsiding. However, substantial litigation and government investigations continue to be unresolved and it is possible that unfavorable outcomes or settlements of these matters might require Nortel to take actions that could be detrimental to our operating results or financial condition. Microsoft Corporation has announced they are entering the unified communications market which could result in significant disruption to the current communications market landscape. Microsoft Corporation (“Micrsosoft”) has announced several new products that will compete directly with existing Avaya and Nortel voice applications. Microsoft represents a significant entrant into the converged communications market and may cause a significant disruption to our strategy of aligning our efforts with current market leaders Avaya and Nortel. The timing and quality of our reaction to Microsoft’s entrance into the market, the quality of these new products, and the 7 market acceptance of these products will dictate the potential positive or negative impact to us. We are faced with intense competition fueled by rapid changes in the technologies and markets in which we operate. The market for our products and services is highly competitive and subject to rapidly changing technologies. As the industry evolves and new technologies and products are introduced into the marketplace, new participants enter the market and existing competitors seek to strengthen their positions and expand their product/service offerings. There has been a trend toward industry consolidation, which can lead to the creation of stronger competitors who may be better able to compete as a sole-source vendor for customers. While we believe that through our transformation and expansion during the last few years, we are well-positioned to compete effectively in the marketplace, our failure to maintain or enhance this position could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Revenues and gross profits earned by hotels from guest calls continue to decline, which may result in hotels canceling their call accounting maintenance agreements with us. Primarily because of the increasing use of cell phones by guests, hotels have experienced a rapid decline in their revenues and gross profits earned from long distance and other telephone-related fees. This development has severely reduced the importance of call accounting systems in hotels. As a result, many of our customers are considering reducing or eliminating their call accounting maintenance contracts with us. In fiscal 2006 we earned $3.7 million in revenues associated with these maintenance contracts compared with $4.0 in fiscal 2005. The loss of or reduction in these revenues could materially and negatively impact our operating results. The success of our business depends significantly upon our ability to retain and recruit highly skilled personnel. Our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain highly skilled and qualified technical and sales personnel is critical to our success. Competition for such employees in the rapidly changing communications industry is fierce and will likely intensify as the U.S. economy improves. As we have transformed our company into an integrated communications solutions provider, we have invested heavily in the hiring and training of personnel to sell and service our portfolio of products and services. If we are unable to retain our skilled employees or to hire additional qualified personnel as needed, it could adversely impact our ability to implement our strategies efficiently and effectively. The technology we sell is highly complex and changes rapidly, increasing our reliance upon the manufacturers for technical assistance and increasing the risk that our inventories on hand will become obsolete. The communications equipment we sell is highly complex and requires significant technical resources to design, install, and maintain. This complexity may require us to rely heavily upon the manufacturers’ technical staff to support the installation and maintenance of communications systems. This reliance may result in lower service revenues or lower profit margins earned on our service revenues. In addition to their complexity, the systems are evolving rapidly as product enhancements are introduced by the manufacturers. These rapid changes present risks that our inventory on hand will become obsolete, resulting in the need to reduce sales margins to sell the equipment or in direct write-offs in the value of the equipment. Any of these results would be detrimental to our profitability. Our business is directly affected by capital spending trends in the United States and, in particular, market conditions for communications and networking equipment and services. Our business is directly affected by capital spending on technology equipment in the U.S. In periods of slow macroeconomic growth, companies tend to improve their profitability through cost reductions and reduced capital spending. Our business is directly and negatively impacted by such actions. The loss of either our Elite designation or Platinum Level status with Nortel and Avaya, respectively, could negatively impact our ability to differentiate our products and services in the market. Both Nortel and Avaya have different status levels for their business partners based on technical and sales capabilities and purchasing volumes. Currently, we hold the highest level of status with each manufacturer. We emphasize the fact that we are one of the few providers in our market to have the highest status level with each manufacturer and we believe that this is a significant differentiator with some customers. While we expect to be able to maintain the technical capabilities, sales skill sets, and purchasing volumes to maintain our statuses, a downgrade in our status with either manufacturer or both could have a material impact on our reputation in the market which could negatively impact our operating results. 8 Avaya frequently changes the incentive programs offered to its business partners. Avaya, like many major manufacturers, provides various financial incentive programs to support increasing the market share, promotion, and sale of its products. We receive substantial rebates through these incentive programs to offset both costs of goods sold and sales and marketing expenses. We also receive commissions from Avaya to sell its maintenance contracts. The sum of these incentive amounts are material to our operating results. Avaya announces changes to these programs at least annually, and in some recent years those changes have had a negative impact on the incentive payments we have received. We expect Avaya to continue to change its rebate programs to encourage its dealers to target certain customer segments, typically small to mid-sized companies, and to avoid certain other customer sets such as large, national customers, which Avaya prefers to serve with its direct sales force. Our business model may, at times, be at odds with some of the goals of these incentive programs and, therefore, we may experience difficulty in maintaining the level of incentive payments which we enjoyed in prior years. The introduction of new products could result in reduced revenues, reduced gross margins, reduced customer satisfaction, and longer collection periods. We are selling a variety of new, highly complex products that incorporate leading-edge technology, including both hardware and software. The early versions of these products, which we are selling currently, can contain software “bugs” and other defects that can cause the products to not function as intended. We will be dependent upon Avaya and Nortel to fix these problems as they occur. An inability of the manufacturer to correct these problems quickly could result in damage to our reputation, reduced revenues, reduced customer satisfaction, delays in payments from customers for products purchased, and potential liabilities. Compliance with new corporate governance regulations may require a material increase in our operating expenses beginning in fiscal 2008. We are required to comply with a host of new government-mandated corporate governance and accounting regulations, the most significant of which is section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Under the current guidelines issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission, our management report on internal controls over financial reporting must be complete by our fiscal year ending October 31, 2008 and our auditor’s attestation report on internal control over financial reporting will be initially required for our fiscal year ending October 31, 2009. Based on these deadlines and the continuing lack of clear guidance for smaller public companies to effectively comply with these rules, we do not anticipate significant expenditures to be made toward this effort during fiscal 2007. At the present time, there is not sufficient information available to determine the significance of the cost of complying with these regulations in fiscal 2008 and beyond, except that most estimates available suggest that the fees paid to outside auditors and other accounting professionals will at least double their pre-compliance levels. However, there are abundant examples in the marketplace of much larger increases in compliance costs. At the present time we cannot predict whether our costs will be material to our overall operating expenses. A significant portion of our expected growth in managed services revenues is dependent upon our relationship with a single customer. Much of the current growth in our services business is coming from Nortel as they use us as a subcontractor to service many of their high profile end-user customers. While we believe our relationship with Nortel is strong, future changes in personnel, negative service events, and competitive factors could jeopardize this revenue stream. Hitachi’s decision to cease manufacturing communications systems for the hospitality market has caused some uncertainty with respect to our future relationship with our Hitachi installed base of hospitality customers. Hitachi, once one of the leading suppliers of traditional PBX systems to the hospitality market, ceased selling systems for this market in March 2005. We have many long-time hospitality customers with significant portfolios of Hitachi systems in their hotels. We have several hundred Hitachi systems under service contracts producing recurring contract revenues and gross profits for our business. Over the next eight to nine years, all of these customers will have to transition their communications systems to new platforms, presenting a risk to us that another vendor may be selected to service their communications systems. 9 We believe the uncertainty caused by Hitachi’s departure from the market is significantly mitigated by two important factors. First, we believe our relationship with our Hitachi customers is strong. Consequently, we believe that in most instances we will be in a favorable position to supply a new system to our customers when they decide to replace their Hitachi system. Secondly, during the third quarter of fiscal 2006 we assumed the remaining assets and liabilities of Hitachi’s U.S. hospitality market. Included in the assets assumed was a substantial supply of new and refurbished inventory that will enable us to continue to serve our Hitachi customers well into the future. Despite these mitigating factors, no assurance can be given that Hitachi’s exit from this market will not negatively impact our financial results in the future. We are connecting our products to our customers’ computer networks and problems with the implementation of these products could cause disruption to our customers’ entire operations. Unlike traditional stand-alone voice systems, our new IP-based products typically are connected to our customers’ existing local and wide area networks. While we believe the risk of our products disrupting other traffic or operations on these networks is low, such problems could occur, which could cause significant disruption to our customers’ operations. These disruptions, in turn, could result in reduced customer satisfaction, delays in payments from customers for products and services purchased, damage to our reputation, and potential liabilities. We expect our gross margins to vary over time. Our gross margins are impacted by a variety of factors, including changes in customer and product mix, increased price competition, changes in vendor incentive programs, and changes in shipment volume. We expect these factors to cause our gross margins to be inconsistent as we make quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year comparisons. If our dealer agreements with the original equipment manufacturers are terminated prematurely or unexpectedly, our business could be adversely affected. We sell communications systems under dealer agreements with Avaya and Nortel. We are a major dealer for both manufacturers and consider our relationship with both to be good. Nevertheless, if our strategic relationship with these manufacturers were to be terminated prematurely or unexpectedly, our operating results would be adversely impacted. Furthermore, these agreements require that we meet certain volume commitments to earn the pricing structure provided in the dealer agreements. Failure to meet these requirements could cause material adverse consequences to our gross margins and overall operating results. We are dependent upon a few suppliers. Our growth and ability to meet customer demand depends in part on our capability to obtain timely deliveries of products from suppliers. Both Avaya and Nortel utilize a two-tier distribution model in which a few third-party companies (super distributors) distribute their products to their respective dealer communities. In the case of one such distributor, they distribute both Avaya and Nortel products. The limited amount of distribution available for each of these product lines increases our risk of interruptions in the supply of products in the future. We might have to record a significant goodwill impairment loss in the event our business was to suffer a severe decline. Under SFAS 142, we are required to evaluate the fair value of each of our reporting units annually to determine if the fair value is less than the carrying value of those reporting units. If we determine that is the case, then an impairment loss will be recorded in our statement of operations. The determination of fair value is a highly subjective exercise and can produce significantly different results based on the assumptions used and methodologies employed. It is likely that if our financial results were to decline substantially and if macroeconomic conditions eroded, we would have to record a non-cash impairment loss in our statement of operations. If our business grows significantly over the next three years, the successful completion of our Oracle implementation project will be critical to our ability to effectively and efficiently operate our business in the future; implementation of the system will significantly increase our amortization expense. Once our business exceeds $100 million in revenues, it will be increasingly important that we have the necessary information to make informed decisions and implement those decisions quickly and effectively. We have been working on a major upgrade to our technology infrastructure and information systems to consolidate our critical legacy systems from four into one. Due to constraints that we have imposed on capital spending, we have purposely slowed down the 10 development of this system. Furthermore, at our current revenue and activity levels, conversion to this new system is not critical to our near-term success. However, we believe it is prudent to proceed with the conversion while our revenues are at these lower levels in anticipation of future growth, which we believe will require upgraded and consolidated technology infrastructure. While we are taking great care to properly plan this implementation and to test the solution fully prior to the conversion, we cannot guarantee that the conversion will not disrupt our operations. We recognized $429,000 in amortization expense in fiscal 2006 reflecting the fact that certain functions of the system are available for use and are being used. When fully implemented, we estimate that this annual amortization expense will increase to $1.2 million per year. Although a non-cash charge, this expense will have a material, negative impact on the operating results of the Company. If industry consolidation continues, it may become more difficult to compete in our market. There has recently been significant merger and acquisition activity in our industry. The consolidation of our market has created larger and stronger competitors. If this trend continues, we may become one of the smaller national dealers of the products and services we sell which could negatively impact our ability to market our services to national customers. Our stock price may continue to be volatile. Historically, our stock is not widely followed by investment analysts and is subject to price and volume trading volatility. This volatility is sometimes tied to overall market conditions and may or may not reflect our financial performance. It is likely that this volatility will continue. Our business is subject to the risks of tornadoes and other natural catastrophic events and to interruptions caused by man-made problems such as computer viruses or terrorism. Our corporate headquarters and NSC are located in northeastern Oklahoma, a region known to be part of “tornado alley”. A significant natural disaster, such as a tornado, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. In addition, despite our implementation of network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, hacking, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. Any such event could also cause a similar material adverse impact. In addition, acts of war or acts of terrorism could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. The continued threat of terrorism and heightened security and military response to this threat, or any future acts of terrorism, may cause further disruption to our economy and create further uncertainties. To the extent that such disruptions or uncertainties result in delays or cancellations of customer orders or the assembly or shipment of our products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We may be subject to infringement claims and litigation, which could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from selling certain products and services. Third parties, including customers, may assert claims or initiate legal action against our manufacturers, suppliers, customers or us, alleging that the products we sell infringe on another’s proprietary rights. Regardless of the merit of a claim, these types of claims can be time-consuming, expensive, and/or require us to enter into costly license agreements. In some instances, a successful claim could prevent us from selling a particular product or service. We have not conducted patent searches on the third party-products we distribute to independently determine whether they infringe upon another’s proprietary rights; nor would it be practical or cost-effective for us to do so. Rather, we rely on infringement indemnities given to us by the manufacturers of the equipment we distribute. However, because these indemnities are not absolute and in some instances have limits of coverage, no assurance can be given that in the event of an infringement claim, our indemnification by the equipment manufacturer will be adequate to hold us harmless or that we will even be entitled to indemnification by the equipment manufacturer. If any infringement or other intellectual property claim is brought against us and is successful, whether it is based upon a third-party manufacturer’s equipment that we distribute or upon our own proprietary products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to a variety of other general risks and uncertainties inherent in doing business. In addition to the specific factors discussed above, we are subject to certain risks that are inherent in doing business, such as general industry and market conditions and growth rates, general economic and political conditions, costs of obtaining insurance, unexpected death of key employees, changes in employment laws and regulations, changes in tax laws 11 and regulations, and other events that can impact revenues and the cost of doing business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 