ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business and prospects are subject to risks and uncertainties. The following items are representative of the risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could affect our business, future performance and the outcome of our forward-looking statements. Our largest manufacturing partner is implementing a broad range of strategic initiatives some of which could have a material, negative impact on our gross margins. Avaya has made or announced several changes in their marketing and dealer channel strategy including changes in pricing, mandatory contractual agreements to engage with Avaya technical support and certain limitations on dealers’ service offerings. These changes are potentially disruptive to our business as they require adjustments to our marketing strategies as well as to day-to-day operating interactions with Avaya. Additionally, there is inherent risk to customer relationships when manufacturers adjust their product and service strategies over a rapid timeline. We have already experienced some erosion in our service margins as a result of the changes implemented in 2010 and one of our significant customers has standardized on another of our manufacturer’s platform in reaction to changes implemented by Avaya within the past year. No assurance can be given that the various strategic shifts at Avaya will not cause a material, negative impact to our results of operations. The acquisition and integration of businesses by the Company may not produce the desired financial and/or operating results. During fiscal 2010, we completed the acquisition of three businesses in separate transactions. These acquisitions are a part of our stated strategy to take advantage of the current disruption in our market by acquiring assets that increase our market share and establish a presence in the advanced communications applications market segment. Expected synergies and growth often do not materialize as planned. Furthermore, we will continue to devote significant time and effort to improve the probability of success for these investments. However, no assurance can be given that these acquisitions will meet our expectations for revenues and operating results, or that our capital could not have been used more efficiently to improve our financial condition or operating results. Our business is affected by capital spending. Economic conditions may continue to inhibit capital spending over the next twelve months and beyond. The U.S. economy is struggling to emerge from a severe recessionary contraction creating continued uncertainty in the outlook for corporate capital spending. Because our business relies on capital spending for technology and equipment, we may continue to experience lumpy demand for our products. This could have a material, negative impact on our operating results and financial condition. We may experience higher than normal bad debt losses as a result of economic conditions and may experience lower revenues as a result of limiting our extension of credit to customers. The economic downturn and tight credit markets have resulted in some of our customers experiencing difficulty in paying their obligations to us, particularly obligations related to the purchase of new systems. While we monitor credit reports and payment histories carefully, we cannot eliminate all of the risks associated with the extension of credit. As a result, we may experience higher rates of bad debt in the near future and we may also experience lower revenues as a result of tightening our credit standards. 7 Table of Contents Our revenue for a particular period is difficult to predict, and a shortfall in revenue can harm our operating results. Our systems sales, implementation, cabling, and other revenues for a particular quarter are difficult to predict. Our total revenues may decline or grow at a slower rate than in past periods. We have experienced periods during which shipments have exceeded net bookings, or manufacturing issues have delayed shipments, resulting in erratic revenues. The timing of orders, primarily in our systems sales, can also impact our quarter to quarter business and operating results. As a result, our operating results could vary materially from quarter to quarter based on the receipt of orders, and the ultimate recognition of revenue. We set our operating expenses based primarily on forecasted revenues. An unexpected shortfall in revenues could lead to lower than expected operating results if we are unable to quickly reduce these fixed expenses in response to short-term business changes. Any of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial results. The value of our product and services offerings to the hospitality market is declining and our repair and maintenance revenues associated with this line of business are under significant pressure. Increasing use of cell phones by guests has caused a rapid decline in hotels’ revenues and gross profits earned from long distance and other telephone-related fees. This development has severely reduced the importance of PBX and call accounting systems in hotels. Additionally, many of the new voice applications have limited value in the hospitality market. As a result, there is not a compelling financial reason or guest-driven need to replace existing equipment. The primary uses of guest room phones are to access hotel amenities such as the front desk or room service or to call other guests. Additionally, guest room phones are necessary to satisfy laws mandating access to 911 services in all guest rooms. Manufacturers who enjoy a significant share of the installed base of systems in the hospitality market are in competition with startup firms to develop low cost, shared, network dial tone that will meet the needs of hotel properties at prices that will produce a sufficient return on their investment. While we are carefully monitoring these developments, there is no assurance that hotel’s spending on PBX and call accounting systems and associated maintenance services will not drop dramatically resulting in a material, negative impact on our operating results. Success in our overall strategy, a key component of which is to focus on the marketing of advanced communications products and applications and related services, may be difficult or even prevented by a variety of factors. Expansion of our net profit margins and increasing our shareholders’ return on investment over the long term is highly dependent upon our ability to become a leader in the sale, implementation, and ongoing maintenance of advanced communications products and applications. Because of their sophistication and complex integration with both network and desktop software applications, including Microsoft Office products such as Outlook, these products are expected to earn higher margins than our current products. To succeed in these dynamic markets, we must continue to: train our sales employees on the capabilities and technical specifications of these new technologies; train our services technicians to support these products and applications; develop relationships with new types of qualified service providers to supplement our internal capabilities; and develop new relationships with different disciplines, and at higher management levels, within our customers’ organizations. We cannot predict whether: (i) the demand for advanced communications products, applications, and services, including IP telephony systems and UC, will grow as fast as anticipated; (ii) other new technologies may cause the market to evolve in a manner different than we expect; or (iii) technologies developed by manufacturers that we do not represent may become more accepted as the industry standard. Finally, we cannot predict the impact of economic conditions on the adoption of these technologies. We believe that most customers will likely limit their capital investments to those with anticipated paybacks of one year or less until it is clearer that an economic recovery is underway and competitive pressures begin to drive technology decision-making again. While UC and other collaboration-oriented voice applications are predicted to enhance user productivity and improve the security of certain intra-company communications, the return rate on these investments is yet unproven, therefore customers may choose to delay investment. We may experience severe declines in our services revenues from the loss of a major wholesale services customer. Our wholesale services revenues are generated from a few large customers who contract with us to provide a variety of services for specific end-user customers. Typically, the end-user customer is a large corporation as well. Our experience to date in these arrangements indicates that we may experience severe reductions in service revenues in the event that either the end-user or our customer selects a different service provider or changes their operating strategy regarding the delivery of these services. The loss of one of our wholesale managed service customers could have a sudden, material, adverse effect on our operating results. Nortel’s Chapter 11 Bankruptcy filing and subsequent sale of its enterprise solution business to Avaya may negatively impact our financial condition. Nortel filed a voluntary petition for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection on January 14, 2009. On July 12, 2010, Nortel filed its plan of reorganization which was essentially a plan of liquidation. We are owed approximately $717,000 in pre-petition accounts receivable less approximately $116,000 in approved offsets for amounts we owed to Nortel at the time of the filing. Nortel’s July 12, 2010 filing classifies our claim as a Class 3 “General Unsecured” claim. As such, our claim will be impaired and any distribution made by Nortel to Class 3 unsecured creditors will be shared among such creditors on a pro-rata basis. We do not know the extent to which this receivable will be impaired but it is apparent we will not collect the full amount. If this claim is not collectible in large part, we could experience material, negative operating results in the near term. 8 Table of Contents We face intense competition fueled by rapid changes in the technologies and markets in which we operate. The market for our products and services is highly competitive and subject to rapidly changing technologies. As the industry continues to evolve and new technologies and products are introduced, new participants enter the market and existing competitors search for ways to strengthen their positions and expand their offerings. There is a developing trend toward consolidation, which could result in the creation of stronger competitors better able to compete as a sole-source vendor for customers. While we believe that through our transformation and expansion during the last few years, we are well positioned to compete effectively in the marketplace; our failure to maintain or enhance this position could adversely affect our business and results of operations. The success of our business depends on our ability to recruit and retain highly skilled personnel. Our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain highly skilled and qualified technical and sales personnel is critical to our success. Competition for such employees in the rapidly changing communications industry is fierce. As we have transformed our company into an integrator of advanced communications solutions we have invested heavily in the hiring and training of personnel to sell and service our portfolio of products and services. If we are unable to retain our skilled employees or to hire additional qualified personnel when needed, it could adversely impact our ability to implement our strategies. The technology we sell is highly complex and changes rapidly, increasing our reliance upon the manufacturers for technical assistance and increasing the risk that our inventories on hand will become obsolete. The communications equipment we sell is highly complex and requires significant technical resources to design, install, and maintain. This complexity may require us to rely heavily upon the manufacturers’ technical staff to support the installation and maintenance of communications systems. This reliance may result in lower services revenue or lower profit margins earned on our services revenue. In addition to their complexity, the systems are evolving rapidly as product enhancements are introduced by the manufacturers. These rapid changes present risks that our inventory on hand will become obsolete, resulting in the need to reduce sales margins to sell the equipment or in direct write-offs in the value of the equipment. Any of these results would be detrimental to our profitability. The loss of our highest level dealer certifications with any of our manufacturers could negatively impact our ability to differentiate our products and services in the market and could negatively impact our operating results. We hold the highest level of dealer certifications with Avaya and Mitel. These certifications are based on technical and sales capabilities and purchasing volumes and are reviewed annually. We emphasize the fact that we are one of the few providers in our market to have the highest certification level with each manufacturer and we believe that this is a significant differentiator with some customers who have two or more of the manufacturers’ products in their installed base. Additionally, as a result of these certifications we receive enhanced manufacturer incentive payments which are material to our operating results. While we expect to maintain the technical capabilities, sales skill sets, and purchasing volumes to secure our certifications, a downgrade could have a material impact on our reputation in the market and negatively impact our operating results. The introduction of new products could result in reduced revenues, reduced gross margins, reduced customer satisfaction, and longer collection periods. We sell a variety of highly complex products that incorporate leading-edge hardware and software technology. Early versions of these products, which we are selling currently, can contain software defects or “bugs” that can cause the products to not function as intended. We will be dependent upon our suppliers of these technologies to fix these problems. The inability of the manufacturer to quickly correct these problems could result in damage to our reputation, reduced revenues, reduced customer satisfaction, delays in payments from customers for products purchased, and potential liabilities. 9 Table of Contents A significant portion of our expected growth in services revenues is dependent upon our relationship with a few wholesale customers. Much of the growth in our services revenue is coming from a few wholesale service customers using us as a subcontractor to service many of their high profile end-user customers. We believe our relationship with these companies is strong and our performance ratings have been excellent. However, our experience is that end-users’ decisions to maintain their service agreements with our wholesale service customers depends on factors which are beyond our control. Therefore we can provide no assurance that we will not experience sudden declines in our maintenance and repair services revenues due to the loss of large contracts by our wholesale customers. Hitachi’s decision to cease manufacturing communications systems for the hospitality market has caused some uncertainty with respect to our future relationship with our Hitachi installed base of hospitality customers. Hitachi, once one of the leading suppliers of traditional PBX systems to the hospitality market, ceased selling systems to this market in March 2005. We have many long-time hospitality customers with significant portfolios of Hitachi systems in their properties. In addition, we have several hundred Hitachi systems under service contracts generating recurring contract revenues and gross profits. Over the next four to six years, most of these customers will have to transition their communications systems to new platforms. The transition presents a risk to us that another vendor may be selected to install and service their communications systems. In response we have added the Mitel product line to mitigate the impact to our operating results due to Hitachi’s exit from the hospitality market. While Hitachi’s exit created some uncertainty in our relationship with existing customers, we believe our relationship with our Hitachi customers is strong. Consequently, we believe that in most instances we will be in a favorable position to supply a new system to our customers when they decide to replace their Hitachi system. Additionally, during the third quarter of fiscal 2006 we acquired the remaining assets and liabilities of Hitachi’s U.S. hospitality market. Included in the acquired assets was a substantial inventory of new and refurbished parts and equipment enabling us to serve our Hitachi customers. Despite these mitigating factors, no assurance can be given that Hitachi’s exit from this market will not negatively impact our financial results in the future. We are connecting our products to our customer’s computer networks and integrating these products to other customer-owned software applications such as the Microsoft Office Suite. In most cases, we are integrating our products to mission-critical networks and systems such as contact centers owned by the customer. Problems with the implementation of these products could cause operational disruption, loss of revenues and gross profits for our customers. IP-based products and advanced voice applications are typically connected to our customers’ existing local and wide area networks. While we believe the risk of our products disrupting other traffic or affecting performance of these networks is low, such problems could occur. Such an event could cause significant disruption to our customers’ operations, including loss of revenue, or the inability to access critical services such as 911 emergency services. In turn, these disruptions could result in reduced customer satisfaction, delays in payments from customers for products and services purchased, damage to our reputation, and potential liabilities. We expect our gross margins to vary over time. Our gross margins are affected by a variety of factors, including changes in customer and product mix, increased price competition, changes in vendor incentive programs, and changes in shipment volume. We expect these factors to cause our gross margins to be inconsistent in quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year comparisons. If our dealer agreements with the original equipment manufacturers are terminated prematurely or unexpectedly, our business could be adversely affected. We sell communications systems under dealer agreements with various manufacturers such as Avaya, Mitel and Shortel. We are a major dealer for many manufacturers and we consider our relationship with them to be good. Nevertheless, if our strategic relationship with our manufacturers were to be terminated prematurely or unexpectedly, our operating results would be adversely impacted. Furthermore, these agreements require that we meet certain volume commitments to earn the pricing incentives provided in the dealer agreements. Failure to meet these requirements could have material adverse consequences on our gross margins and overall operating results. We are dependent upon a few suppliers. Our growth and ability to meet customer demand depends in part on our capability to obtain timely deliveries of products from suppliers. Avaya utilizes a two-tier distribution model whereby a few third-party companies (super distributors) distribute their products to their dealer communities. The limited amount of distribution available for these product lines increases our risk of interruptions in the supply of these products. 10 Table of Contents We may incur goodwill and other asset impairments in the event our business was to suffer a severe decline. We are required to evaluate the fair value of each of our reporting units annually to determine if the fair value is less than the carrying value of those reporting units. If we determine that is the case, then an impairment loss will be recorded in our statement of operations. In fiscal year 2010, after completing the annual impairment test, management determined that the fair value of each reporting unit was greater than our carrying value and therefore no impairment had occurred. In fiscal year 2009, management determined that the goodwill associated with our commercial equipment sales reporting unit was impaired and we recorded an impairment charge of $14.8 million. We could experience further deterioration in this area of our business or other areas of our business, which might result in additional impairment of our remaining goodwill balances. Additional impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our stock price may continue to be volatile. Historically, our stock is not widely followed by investment analysts and is subject to price and trading volume volatility. This volatility is sometimes tied to overall market conditions and may or may not reflect our financial performance. It is likely that this volatility will continue. Our business is subject to the risks of tornadoes and other natural catastrophic events and to interruptions caused by man-made problems such as computer viruses or terrorism. Our corporate headquarters and NSC are located in northeastern Oklahoma, a region known as “tornado alley”. The region is also frequently the victim of significant ice storms. A significant natural disaster, such as a tornado or prolonged ice storm could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. In addition, despite our implementation of network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, hacking, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering of our computer systems. Any such event could also cause a similar material adverse impact. In addition, acts of war or terrorism could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. The continued threat of terrorism and associated security and military response, or any future acts of terrorism may further disrupt the national economy and create additional uncertainties. To the extent that such disruptions or uncertainties might result in delays or cancellations of customer orders, or impact the assembly or shipment of our products, business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We may be subject to infringement claims and litigation, which could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from selling certain products and services. Third parties, including customers, may assert claims or initiate legal action against our manufacturers, suppliers, customers or us, alleging that the products we sell infringe on another’s proprietary rights. Regardless of merit, such claims can be time-consuming, expensive, and/or require us to enter into costly license agreements. In some instances, a successful claim could prevent us from selling a particular product or service. We have not conducted patent searches on the third party-products we distribute to independently determine if they infringe on another party’s proprietary rights. Nor would it be practical or cost-effective for us to do so. Rather, we rely on infringement indemnities provided by the equipment manufacturers. However, because these indemnities are not absolute and in some instances have limits of coverage, no assurance can be given that in the event of a claim our indemnification by the equipment manufacturer will be adequate to hold us harmless, or that we are entitled to indemnification by the equipment manufacturer. If any infringement or other intellectual property claim is brought against us, and succeeds, whether it is based on a third-party’s equipment that we distribute or on our own proprietary products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to a variety of other general risks and uncertainties inherent in doing business. In addition to the specific factors discussed above, we are subject to risks that are inherent to doing business. These include growth rates, general economic and political conditions, customer satisfaction with the quality of our services, costs of obtaining insurance, unexpected death of key employees, changes in employment laws and regulations, changes in tax laws and regulations, and other events that can impact revenues and the cost of doing business. 11 Table of Contents 