ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business and prospects are subject to many risks and uncertainties. The following items are representative of the risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could affect our business, our future performance and the outcome of the forward-looking statements we make. A key component of our strategy is our focus on the marketing of advanced communications products and applications and related services, including IP telephony systems, and this strategy may not be successful. Our operating results may be adversely affected if the market opportunity for advanced communications products, applications and services, including IP telephony systems, does not develop in the ways that we anticipate. Because this market opportunity is in its early stages, we cannot predict whether the demand for advanced communications products, applications, and services, including IP telephony systems, will grow as fast as we anticipate; new technologies may cause the market to evolve in a manner different than we expect; technologies developed by manufacturers that we do not represent may become more accepted or the standard in our industry; or we may fail to achieve a leadership or profitable position as these market opportunities develop. We are investing significant resources to add Nortel products and services to our product line and our efforts may not produce satisfactory results. To extend our market reach and reduce our reliance on Avaya, we added the Nortel product line to our business in 2003. Since then, we have invested significant financial resources in the hiring and training of personnel to sell, design, install and maintain Nortel products. To maximize the potential ramp-up of this business, we have purposely sacrificed short-term profitability by increasing selling expenses and services cost of goods sold. These investments may not produce the revenues and gross profits that we expect. The financial condition of Nortel is uncertain and actions they may take could hurt our operating results. In recent years, Nortel has endured severe financial difficulties, made significant senior management changes, and until recently, was unable to file its SEC reports in a timely manner. Recent developments indicate that these financial and accounting difficulties may be subsiding. However, should these problems persist, there can be no assurance given that Nortel will not take actions to preserve its short-term financial condition which could be detrimental to our operating results or financial condition. 7 Revenues and gross profits earned by hotels from guest calls continue to decline, which may result in hotels canceling their call accounting maintenance agreements with us. Primarily because of the increasing use of cell phones by guests, hotels have experienced a rapid decline in their revenues and gross profits earned from long distance and other telephone-related fees. This development has severely reduced the importance of call accounting systems in hotels and as a result, many of our customers are considering reducing or eliminating their call accounting maintenance contracts with us. In fiscal 2005 we earned $4.0 million in revenues associated with these maintenance contracts. The loss of or reduction in these revenues could materially and negatively impact our operating results. The success of our business depends significantly upon our ability to retain and recruit highly skilled personnel. Our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain highly skilled and qualified technical and sales personnel is critical to our success. Competition for such employees in the rapidly changing telecommunications industry is fierce and will likely intensify as the US economy improves. As we have transformed our company into an integrated communications solutions provider, we have invested heavily in the hiring and training of personnel to sell and service our new products and service offerings. If we are unable to retain our skilled employees or to hire additional qualified personnel as needed, it could adversely impact our ability to implement our strategies efficiently and effectively. The technology we sell is highly complex and changes rapidly, increasing our reliance upon the manufacturers for technical assistance and increasing the risk that our inventories on hand will become obsolete. The communications equipment we sell is highly complex and requires significant technical resources to design, install, and maintain. This complexity may require us to rely heavily upon the manufacturers’ technical staff to support the installation and maintenance of systems. This reliance may result in lower service revenues or lower profit margins earned on our service revenues. In addition to their complexity, the systems are evolving rapidly as product enhancements are introduced by the manufacturers. These rapid changes present risks that our inventory on hand will become obsolete, resulting in the need to reduce sales margins to sell the equipment or in direct write-offs in the value of the equipment. Any of these results would be detrimental to our profitability. Our business is directly affected by capital spending trends in the United States and, in particular, market conditions for telecommunications and networking equipment and services. Our business is directly affected by capital spending on technology equipment in the U.S. In periods of slow macro economic growth, companies tend to improve their profitability through cost reductions and reduced capital spending. Our business is directly and negatively impacted by such actions. Avaya frequently changes the incentive programs offered to its business partners. Such changes had a detrimental effect on our financial results for the last three years and could do so again in the future. Avaya, like many major manufacturers, provides various financial incentive programs to support increasing the market share, promotion, and sale of its products. We receive substantial rebates through these incentive programs to offset both costs of goods sold and sales and marketing expenses. We also receive commissions from Avaya to sell its maintenance contracts. These amounts are material to our operating results. Avaya announces changes to these programs at least annually, and in recent years those changes have had a negative impact on the incentive payments we have received. We expect Avaya to continue to change its rebate programs to encourage its dealers to target certain customer segments, typically small to mid-sized firms, and to avoid certain other customer sets such as large, national customers, which Avaya prefers to serve with its direct sales force. We expect our business model to be at odds with some of the goals of these incentive programs and, therefore, we expect to continue to experience difficulty in maintaining the level of incentive payments which we enjoyed in prior years. 8 The introduction of new products could result in reduced revenues, reduced gross margins, reduced customer satisfaction, and longer collection periods. We are selling a variety of new, highly complex products that incorporate leading-edge technology, including both hardware and software. The early versions of these products, which we are selling currently, can contain software “bugs” and other defects that can cause the products to not function as intended. We will be dependent upon Avaya and Nortel to fix these problems as they occur. An inability of the manufacturer to correct these problems quickly could result in damage to our reputation, reduced revenues, reduced customer satisfaction, delays in payments from customers for products purchased, and potential liabilities. Compliance with new corporate governance regulations may require a material increase in our operating expenses. We are required to comply with a host of new government-mandated corporate governance and accounting regulations, the most significant of which is section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our compliance with section 404 must be complete by our fiscal year ending October 31, 2007. At the present time, there is not sufficient information available to determine the significance of the cost of complying with these regulations, except that most estimates available suggest that the fees paid to outside auditors and other accounting professionals will at least double their pre-compliance levels. However, there are abundant examples in the marketplace of much larger increases in compliance costs and at the present time we cannot predict whether our costs will be material to our overall operating expenses. Hitachi has ceased manufacturing communications systems for the hospitality market, which has caused some uncertainty with respect to our future relationship with our Hitachi installed base of hospitality customers. Hitachi, once one of the leading suppliers of traditional PBX systems to the hospitality market, ceased selling systems for this market in March 2005, but has committed to maintaining an adequate supply of parts for its installed systems for the next ten years. We have many long-time hospitality customers with significant portfolios of Hitachi systems in their hotels. We have several hundred Hitachi systems under service contract producing recurring contract revenues and gross profits for our business. Over the next ten years, all of these customers will have to transition their communications systems to new platforms presenting a risk to us that another vendor will be selected. While this risk also presents us with an opportunity to sell new systems to our existing Hitachi customers, no assurance can be given that Hitachi’s decision will not negatively impact our financial results in the future. We are connecting our products to our customers’ computer networks and problems with the implementation of these products could cause disruption to our customers’ entire operations. Unlike traditional stand-alone voice systems, our new IP-based products typically are connected to our customers’ existing local and wide area networks. While we believe the risk of our products disrupting other traffic or operations on these networks is low, such problems could occur, which could cause significant disruption to our customers’ operations. These disruptions, in turn, could result in reduced customer satisfaction, delays in payments from customers for products purchased, damage to our reputation, and potential liabilities. We expect our gross margins to vary over time. Our gross margins are impacted by a variety of factors, including changes in customer and product mix, increased price competition, changes in vendor incentive programs, and changes in shipment volume. We expect these factors to cause our gross margins to be inconsistent as we make quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year comparisons. If our dealer agreements with the original equipment manufacturers are terminated prematurely or unexpectedly, our business could be adversely affected. We sell communications systems under dealer agreements with Avaya and Nortel. We are a major dealer for both manufacturers and consider our relationship with both to be good. Nevertheless, if our strategic relationship with these manufacturers were to be terminated prematurely or unexpectedly, our operating results would be adversely impacted. Furthermore, these agreements require that we meet certain volume commitments to earn the pricing structure provided in the dealer agreements. Failure to meet these requirements could cause material adverse consequences to our gross margins and overall operating results. 9 We are dependent upon a few suppliers. Our growth and ability to meet customer demand depends in part on our capability to obtain timely deliveries of products from suppliers. Both Avaya and Nortel utilize a two-tier distribution model in which a few third-party companies (super distributors) distribute their products to their respective dealer communities. In the case of one such distributor, they distribute both Avaya and Nortel products. The limited amount of distribution available for each of these product lines increases our risk of interruptions in the supply of products in the future. We are faced with intense competition and rapidly changing technologies in the industry and market in which we operate. The market for our products and services is highly competitive and subject to rapidly changing technologies. As the industry itself evolves and new technologies and products are introduced into the marketplace, new participants enter the market and existing competitors seek to strengthen their positions and expand their product/service offerings. There has been a trend toward industry consolidation, which can lead to the creation of stronger competitors who may be better able to compete as a sole-source vendor for customers. While we believe that through the transformation and expansion during the last few years, we are well-positioned to compete effectively in the marketplace, our failure to maintain or enhance this position could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We might have to record a significant goodwill impairment loss in the event our business was to suffer a severe decline. Under SFAS 142, we are required to evaluate the fair value of each of our reporting units annually and determine if the fair value is less than the carrying value of those reporting units, and if so, an impairment loss is recorded in our statement of operations. The determination of fair value is a highly subjective exercise and can produce significantly different results based on the assumptions used and methodologies employed. It is likely that if our financial results were to decline substantially and if macroeconomic conditions eroded, we would have to record a non-cash impairment loss in our statement of operations. If our business grows significantly over the next three years, the successful completion of our Oracle implementation project will be critical to our ability to effectively and efficiently operate our business in the future; implementation of the system will significantly increase our amortization expense. Once our business exceeds $100 million in revenues, it will be increasingly important that we have the necessary information to make informed decisions and implement those decisions quickly and effectively. We have been working on a major upgrade to our technology infrastructure and information systems to consolidate our critical legacy systems from four down to one. Due to constraints that we have imposed on capital spending, we have purposely slowed down the development of this system. Furthermore, at our current revenue and activity levels, conversion to this new system is not critical to our near-term success. However, we believe it is prudent to proceed with the conversion while our revenues are at these lower levels in anticipation of future growth, which we believe will require upgraded and consolidated technology infrastructure. While we are taking great care to properly plan this implementation and to test the solution fully prior to the conversion, there can be no guarantees given that the conversion will not disrupt our operations. We recognized $348,000 in amortization expense in fiscal 2005 reflecting the fact that certain functions of the system are available for use, and are being used. When fully implemented, we estimate that this annual amortization expense will increase to $1.1 million per year. Although a non-cash charge, this expense will have a material, negative impact on the operating results of the Company. 10 Our stock price may continue to be volatile. Historically, our stock is not widely followed by investment analysts and is subject to price and volume trading volatility. This volatility is sometimes tied to overall market conditions and may or may not reflect our financial performance. It is likely that this volatility will continue. Our business is subject to the risks of tornadoes and other natural catastrophic events and to interruptions caused by manmade problems such as computer viruses or terrorism. Our corporate headquarters and NSC are located in northeastern Oklahoma, a region known to be part of “tornado alley”. A significant natural disaster, such as a tornado, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. In addition, despite our implementation of network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, hacking, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering of our computer systems. Any such event could also cause a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. In addition, acts of war or acts of terrorism could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. The continued threat of terrorism and heightened security and military response to this threat, or any future acts of terrorism, may cause further disruption to our economy and create further uncertainties. To the extent that such disruptions or uncertainties result in delays or cancellations of customer orders or the assembly or shipment of our products, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We may be subject to infringement claims and litigation, which could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from selling certain products and services. Third parties, including customers, may assert claims or initiate legal action against our manufacturers, suppliers, customers or us, alleging that the products we sell infringe on another’s proprietary rights. Regardless of the merit of a claim, these types of claims can be time-consuming, expensive, and/or require us to enter into costly license agreements. In some instances, a successful claim could prevent us from selling a particular product or service. We have not conducted patent searches on the third party-products we distribute to independently determine whether they infringe upon another’s proprietary rights; nor would it be practical or cost-effective for us to do so. Rather, we rely on infringement indemnities given to us by the manufacturers of the equipment we distribute. However, because these indemnities are not absolute and in some instances have limits of coverage, no assurance can be given that in the event of an infringement claim, our indemnification by the equipment manufacturer will be adequate to hold us harmless or that we will even be entitled to indemnification by the equipment manufacturer. If any infringement or other intellectual property claim is brought against us and is successful, whether it is based upon a third-party manufacturer’s equipment that we distribute or upon our own proprietary products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to a variety of other general risks and uncertainties inherent in doing business. In addition to the specific factors discussed above, we are subject to certain risks that are inherent in doing business, such as general industry and market conditions and growth rates, general economic and political conditions, costs of obtaining insurance, unexpected death of key employees, changes in employment laws and regulations, changes in tax laws and regulations, and other events that can impact revenues and the cost of doing business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 11 