ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business and prospects are subject to risks and uncertainties. The following items are representative of the risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could affect our business, future performance and the outcome of our forward-looking statements. Our business is affected by capital spending. Current economic conditions and the ability of our customers to access credit may reduce capital spending over the next twelve months and beyond. The U.S. economy is mired in a recessionary contraction. Credit availability is limited for nearly all enterprises and the outlook for corporate profits is uncertain. These factors are contributing to a high degree of ambiguity concerning capital spending in 2009. Because our business depends on capital spending for technology and equipment, we may experience a decline in demand for our products. Such a decline may have a material, negative impact on our operating results and financial condition. Our revenue for a particular period is difficult to predict, and a shortfall in revenue can harm our operating results. Our systems sales, implementation, cabling, and other revenues for a particular quarter are difficult to predict. Our total revenues may decline or grow at a slower rate than in past periods. We have experienced periods during which shipments have exceeded net bookings, or manufacturing issues have delayed shipments, resulting in erratic revenues. The timing of large orders, primarily in our systems sales, can also impact our quarter to quarter business and operating results. From time to time, we receive large orders that have a significant effect on our operating results for the period that the revenue is recognized. The timing of such orders is difficult to predict, and the timing of revenue recognition from such orders may result in period-to-period changes in net sales. As a result, our operating results could vary materially from quarter to quarter based on the receipt of such orders, and the ultimate recognition of revenue. We set our operating expenses based primarily on forecasted revenues. An unexpected shortfall in revenues could lead to lower than expected operating results if we are unable to quickly reduce these fixed expenses in response to short-term business changes. Any of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial results. The lack of available credit may impair our ability to expand our business through acquisition. Because of the uncertainty in the credit markets and the lack of credit available through traditional lending institutions, it may be difficult for us to finance acquisitions with traditional senior debt. Despite our improved operating results, strong cash flows and low debt, our ability to secure senior debt financing is subject to the same limitations and costs affecting the market as a whole. We believe that the combination of improved working capital, moderate levels of senior debt, and alternative methods of acquisition financing, such as seller notes and equity, will be sufficient to accomplish our goals for inorganic expansion in fiscal 2009. However, there is no assurance that these sources of capital will materialize and/or be sufficient to pursue all the acquisition opportunities considered in the best interest of the Company. As a result we may be unable to pursue certain reasonably priced, synergistic opportunities. Nortel’s Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing may result in both a short-term and long-term financial loss for the Company. Nortel filed a voluntary petition for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection on January 14, 2009. At the time of the filing the Company was owed approximately $500,000 in billed accounts receivable and approximately $100,000 in services rendered but not yet billed (“pre-petition claims”). Nortel was current in its payments to us at the time of their filing. Based on filings approved by the bankruptcy court which allow Nortel to pay for post-petition business operations, we plan to continue to provide services to Nortel’s end-user customers under our wholesale service relationship which currently produces approximately $3 million in annual revenues. If our pre-petition claims are not collectible either in whole or in large, we could experience material, negative operating results in the near term. Furthermore, it is impossible to know with certainty what the long term impact of Nortel’s bankruptcy filing will have on our managed services revenues or our Nortel equipment business. However, our ongoing revenues and future financial results could be materially impaired in the event that Nortel is unable to fund its future operations; end-users elect to abandon their Nortel equipment for other 7 products; Nortel implements dramatic changes to its business plan and strategies which negatively impact our relationship with Nortel as a business partner and/or vendor; the U.S. and global economic crisis negatively impacts Nortel’s ability to reorganize successfully; and/or Nortel is unable to continue as debtor in possession or to emerge from bankruptcy. Telephone service in hotel rooms is now a net cost to most hotels and feature rich voice applications are of modest value in most hospitality locations. As a result, the value of our product and service offerings to this market is declining. Increasing use of cell phones by guests has caused a rapid decline in hotels’ revenues and gross profits earned from long distance and other telephone-related fees. This development has severely reduced the importance of PBX and call accounting systems in hotels. Additionally, many of the new voice applications have limited value in the hospitality market. As a result, there is not a compelling financial reason or guest-driven need to replace existing equipment. The primary uses of guest room phones are to access hotel amenities such as the front desk or room service or to call other guests. Additionally, guest room phones are necessary to satisfy laws mandating access to 911 services in all guest rooms. We believe that manufacturers who enjoy a significant share of the installed base of systems in the lodging market will develop low cost, shared, network dial tone that will meet the needs of hotel properties at prices that will produce a sufficient return on their investment. While we are carefully monitoring these developments and are communicating frequently with the manufacturers on this subject, there is no assurance that hotels spending on PBX and call accounting systems and associated maintenance services will not continue to drop dramatically resulting in a material, negative impact our operating results. Success in our overall strategy, a key component of which is to focus on the marketing of advanced communications products and applications and related services, may be difficult or even prevented by a variety of factors. Expansion of our net profit margins and increasing our shareholders’ return on investment over the long term is highly dependent upon our ability to become a leader in the sale, implementation, and ongoing maintenance of advanced communications. Because of their sophistication and complex integration with both network and desktop software applications, including Microsoft Office products such as Outlook, these products are expected to earn higher margins than our current products To succeed in these evolving markets, we must continue to: train our sales employees on the capabilities and technical specifications of these new technologies; train our services employees to service these new products and applications; develop relationships with new types of qualified service providers to supplement our internal capabilities; and develop new relationships with different disciplines and at higher management levels within our customers’ organizations. Additionally, because these technologies are still in the early stages of market acceptance, we cannot predict whether: (i) the demand for advanced communications products, applications, and services, including IP telephony systems and UC, will grow as fast as anticipated; (ii) other new technologies may cause the market to evolve in a manner different than we expect; or (iii) technologies developed by manufacturers that we do not represent may become more accepted as the industry standard. Finally, we cannot predict the impact of the current economic slowdown on the adoption of these technologies. We believe that most customers will likely limit their capital investments to those with anticipated paybacks of one year or less. While UC and other voice applications are predicted to enhance user productivity and improve the security of certain intra-company communications, the return rate on these investments is yet unproven, therefore customers may choose to wait to invest. We may experience severe declines in our service revenues from the loss of a major wholesale services customer. Our wholesale service revenues are generated from a few large customers who contract with us to provide a variety of services for specific end-user customers. Typically, the end-user customer is a large corporation as well. Our experience to date in these arrangements indicates that we may experience severe reductions in service revenues in the event that either the end-user or our customer selects a different service provider or changes their operating strategy regarding the delivery of these services. The loss of one of our wholesale managed service customers could have a sudden, material, adverse effect on our operating results. Our manufacturers could change their incentive programs, which may affect our operating results. We participate in various incentive programs with all of our major manufacturers. The payments we receive under these programs are material to our operating results. Our manufacturers could alter or discontinue these programs without notice, which could have a material, adverse effect on our operating results. 8 Microsoft Corporation has entered the UC market, which could result in significant disruption to the current communications market landscape. Microsoft Corporation (“Microsoft”) has announced several new products that will compete directly with existing Avaya and Nortel applications. Microsoft represents a significant entrant into the converged communications market and may cause a considerable disruption to our strategy of aligning our efforts with Avaya and Nortel. The timing and quality of our response to Microsoft’s entrance into the market, the quality of Microsoft’s new products, and market acceptance of these products may result in positive or negative impact on our business results. We face intense competition fueled by rapid changes in the technologies and markets in which we operate. The market for our products and services is highly competitive and subject to rapidly changing technologies. As the industry evolves and new technologies and products are introduced, new participants enter the market and existing competitors search for ways to strengthen their positions and expand their offerings. There is a developing trend toward consolidation, which could result in the creation of stronger competitors better able to compete as a sole-source vendor for customers. While we believe that through our transformation and expansion during the last few years, we are well positioned to compete effectively in the marketplace, our failure to maintain or enhance this position could adversely affect our business and results of operations. The success of our business depends significantly upon our ability to retain and recruit highly skilled personnel. Our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain highly skilled and qualified technical and sales personnel is critical to our success. Competition for such employees in the rapidly changing communications industry is fierce. As we have transformed our company into an integrator of advanced communications solutions we have invested heavily in the hiring and training of personnel to sell and service our portfolio of products and services. If we are unable to retain our skilled employees or to hire additional qualified personnel as needed, it could adversely impact our ability to implement our strategies efficiently and effectively. The technology we sell is highly complex and changes rapidly, increasing our reliance upon the manufacturers for technical assistance and increasing the risk that our inventories on hand will become obsolete. The communications equipment we sell is highly complex and requires significant technical resources to design, install, and maintain. This complexity may require us to rely heavily upon the manufacturers’ technical staff to support the installation and maintenance of communications systems. This reliance may result in lower services revenue or lower profit margins earned on our services revenue. In addition to their complexity, the systems are evolving rapidly as product enhancements are introduced by the manufacturers. These rapid changes present risks that our inventory on hand will become obsolete, resulting in the need to reduce sales margins to sell the equipment or in direct write-offs in the value of the equipment. Any of these results would be detrimental to our profitability. The loss of our highest level dealer certifications with any of our manufacturers could negatively impact our ability to differentiate our products and services in the market and could negatively impact our operating results. We hold the highest level of dealer certifications with Avaya, Nortel, and Mitel. These certifications are based on technical and sales capabilities and purchasing volumes and are reviewed annually. We emphasize the fact that we are one of the few providers in our market to have the highest certification level with each manufacturer and we believe that this is a significant differentiator with some customers who have two or more of the manufacturers’ products in their installed base. Additionally, as a result of these certifications we receive enhanced manufacturer incentive payments which are material to our operating statements. While we expect to be able to maintain the technical capabilities, sales skill sets, and purchasing volumes to maintain our statuses, a downgrade in our status could have a material impact on our reputation in the market, which in turn could negatively impact our operating results. The introduction of new products could result in reduced revenues, reduced gross margins, reduced customer satisfaction, and longer collection periods. We are selling a variety of new, highly complex products that incorporate leading-edge technology, including both hardware and software. The early versions of these products, which we are selling currently, can contain software “bugs” and other defects that can cause the products to not function as intended. We will be dependent upon Avaya and Nortel to 9 fix these problems as they occur. An inability of the manufacturer to correct these problems quickly could result in damage to our reputation, reduced revenues, reduced customer satisfaction, delays in payments from customers for products purchased, and potential liabilities. Compliance with new corporate governance and accounting regulations may require a material increase in our operating expenses beginning in fiscal 2010. We are required to comply with a host of government-mandated corporate governance and accounting regulations, the most significant of which is section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Under the current guidelines issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission, our auditors must attest on our report on internal controls over financial reporting beginning in the year ended October 31, 2010. We believe, based on new guidance provided to small public companies from the Public Companies Accounting Oversight Board and discussions with our external auditors and consultants in this field, that expenditures required to comply with these regulations will not be material to our overall operating results. However, since we have not been subject to this requirement in the past, we cannot provide assurance that we will not incur significant unexpected costs which could materially impact our operating results. Additionally, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) has issued new accounting standards related to fair value and business combination accounting. These rules require significantly different accounting treatment for some items that are common in business combinations and as such, our financial results could be materially different for future acquisitions. A significant portion of our expected growth in services revenues is dependent upon our relationship with a few wholesale customers. Much of the current growth in our services business is coming from a few customers as they use us as a subcontractor to service many of their high profile end-user customers. We believe our relationship with these companies is strong and to date our service ratings with them have been excellent. However, our experience to date is that the end-users’ decisions to maintain their service agreements with our customers are dependent primarily on cost and other factors which are not under our control. Therefore we can provide no assurance that we will not experience sudden declines in our recurring service revenues due to the loss of large service contracts by our wholesale customers. Hitachi’s decision to cease manufacturing communications systems for the hospitality market has caused some uncertainty with respect to our future relationship with our Hitachi installed base of hospitality customers. Hitachi, once one of the leading suppliers of traditional PBX systems to the hospitality market, ceased selling systems for this market in March 2005. We have many long-time hospitality customers with significant portfolios of Hitachi systems in their hotels. We have several hundred Hitachi systems under service contracts producing recurring contract revenues and gross profits for our business. Over the next six to seven years, most of these customers will have to transition their communications systems to new platforms, presenting a risk to us that another vendor may be selected to service their communications systems. Our entry into the Mitel product line is in part a response to Hitachi’s exit of the hospitality market. While Hitachi’s exit from the market created some uncertainty in our relationship with existing customers, we believe our relationship with our Hitachi customers is strong. Consequently, we believe that in most instances we will be in a favorable position to supply a new system to our customers when they decide to replace their Hitachi system. Additionally, during the third quarter of fiscal 2006 we acquired the remaining assets and liabilities of Hitachi’s U.S. hospitality market. Included in the assets acquired was a substantial supply of new and refurbished inventory that enables us to serve our Hitachi customers. Despite these mitigating factors, no assurance can be given that Hitachi’s exit from this market will not negatively impact our financial results in the future. We are connecting our products to our customers’ computer networks and integrating these products to existing customer-owned software applications such as the Microsoft Office Suite of desktop software. In most cases, we are integrating our products to mission-critical networks and systems owned by the customer such as contact centers. Problems with the implementation of these products could cause disruption and loss of revenues and gross profits to our customers’ entire operations. Unlike traditional stand-alone voice systems, new IP-based products and advanced voice applications are typically connected to our customers’ existing local and wide area networks. While we believe the risk of our products disrupting other traffic or operations on these networks is low, such problems could occur, which could cause significant disruption to our customers’ operations, including potentially a loss of revenue, or the inability to access critical services such as 911 emergency services. These disruptions, in turn, could result in reduced customer satisfaction, delays in payments from customers for products and services purchased, damage to our reputation, and potential liabilities. 10 We expect our gross margins to vary over time. Our gross margins are impacted by a variety of factors, including changes in customer and product mix, increased price competition, changes in vendor incentive programs, and changes in shipment volume. We expect these factors to cause our gross margins to be inconsistent as we make quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year comparisons. If our dealer agreements with the original equipment manufacturers are terminated prematurely or unexpectedly, our business could be adversely affected. We sell communications systems under dealer agreements with Avaya, Nortel, and Mitel. We are a major dealer for all three and we consider our relationship with them to be good. Nevertheless, if our strategic relationship with our manufacturers were to be terminated prematurely or unexpectedly, our operating results would be adversely impacted. Furthermore, these agreements require that we meet certain volume commitments to earn the pricing structure provided in the dealer agreements. Failure to meet these requirements could cause material adverse consequences to our gross margins and overall operating results. We are dependent upon a few suppliers. Our growth and ability to meet customer demand depends in part on our capability to obtain timely deliveries of products from suppliers. Both Avaya and Nortel utilize a two-tier distribution model in which a few third-party companies (super distributors) distribute their products to their respective dealer communities. In the case of one such distributor, they distribute both Avaya and Nortel products. The limited amount of distribution available for each of these product lines increases our risk of interruptions in the supply of products in the future. We might have to record a significant goodwill impairment loss in the event our business was to suffer a severe decline. Under Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”, we are required to evaluate the fair value of each of our reporting units annually to determine if the fair value is less than the carrying value of those reporting units. If we determine that is the case, then an impairment loss will be recorded in our statement of operations. The determination of fair value is a highly subjective exercise and can produce significantly different results based on the assumptions used and methodologies employed. It is likely that if our financial results were to decline substantially and if macroeconomic conditions eroded, we would have to record a non-cash impairment loss in our statement of operations. Our stock price may continue to be volatile. Historically, our stock is not widely followed by investment analysts and is subject to price and trading volume volatility. This volatility is sometimes tied to overall market conditions and may or may not reflect our financial performance. It is likely that this volatility will continue. Our business is subject to the risks of tornadoes and other natural catastrophic events and to interruptions caused by man-made problems such as computer viruses or terrorism. Our corporate headquarters and NSC are located in northeastern Oklahoma, a region known as “tornado alley”. The region is also frequently the victim of significant ice storms. A significant natural disaster, such as a tornado or prolonged ice storm, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. In addition, despite our implementation of network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, hacking, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering of our computer systems. Any such event could also cause a similar material adverse impact. In addition, acts of war or terrorism could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. The continued threat of terrorism and associated security and military response, or any future acts of terrorism may further disrupt our national economy and create further uncertainties. To the extent that such disruptions or uncertainties result in delays or cancellations of customer orders, or impact the assembly or shipment of our products, business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We may be subject to infringement claims and litigation, which could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from selling certain products and services. Third parties, including customers, may assert claims or initiate legal action against our manufacturers, suppliers, 11 customers or us, alleging that the products we sell infringe on another’s proprietary rights. Regardless of merit, such claims can be time-consuming, expensive, and/or require us to enter into costly license agreements. In some instances, a successful claim could prevent us from selling a particular product or service. We have not conducted patent searches on the third party-products we distribute to independently determine if they infringe upon another’s proprietary rights; nor would it be practical or cost-effective for us to do so. Rather, we rely on infringement indemnities provided by the equipment manufacturers. However, because these indemnities are not absolute and in some instances have limits of coverage, no assurance can be given that in the event of a claim, our indemnification by the equipment manufacturer will be adequate to hold us harmless or that we are entitled to indemnification by the equipment manufacturer. If any infringement or other intellectual property claim is brought against us succeeds, whether it is based upon a third-party manufacturer’s equipment that we distribute or upon our own proprietary products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to a variety of other general risks and uncertainties inherent in doing business. In addition to the specific factors discussed above, we are subject to risks that are inherent to doing business. These include growth rates, general economic and political conditions, customer satisfaction with the quality of our services, costs of obtaining insurance, unexpected death of key employees, changes in employment laws and regulations, changes in tax laws and regulations, and other events that can impact revenues and the cost of doing business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. ITEM 