ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business and prospects are subject to many risks and uncertainties. The following items are representative of the risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could affect our business, our future performance and the outcome of the forward-looking statements we make. We may not be successful in our overall strategy, a key component of which is to focus on the marketing of advanced communications products and applications and related services. Our operating results may be adversely affected if we are not able to successfully position ourselves as a leader in the implementation of these new advanced communications technologies. To be successful, we must continue to: train our sales employees on the capabilities and technical specifications of these new technologies; train our services employees to service these new products and applications; develop relationships with new types of qualified service providers to supplement our internal capabilities; and develop new relationships with different disciplines and at higher management levels within our customers’ organizations. Additionally, because these technologies are still in the early stages of their development, we cannot predict whether: (i) the demand for advanced communications products, applications, and services, including IP telephony systems, will grow as fast as we anticipate; (ii) new technologies may cause the market to evolve in a manner different than we expect; or (iii) technologies developed by manufacturers that we do not represent may become more accepted or the standard in our industry. Our significant investment of resources into the launch of our Mitel product and services offering may not produce satisfactory results. Beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2008, we are training our technical workforce, our PSO organization, and our hospitality sales team to design, sell, install and maintain Mitel products. These investments may not produce the revenues and gross profits that we expect. If we incur delays in our anticipated installation schedule, significant installation challenges, product performance issues, or weather-related catastrophes, our expected revenues and gross profits in fiscal 2008 from the sale of equipment and installation services to the Miami-Dade County Public School (“MDCPS”) system could be materially less than expected. In November, 2007, we announced the award of a series of orders from MDCPS totaling in excess of $10 million to provide and install communications equipment. The equipment for ten of the schools was shipped prior to the end of fiscal 2007 to support initial installations. We expect the remaining revenues and gross profits to be recognized in fiscal 2008 based on current installation schedules. However, we may experience delays in the installation schedule due to circumstances out of our control as we are reliant on MDCPS personnel to assist us in coordinating each installation. Furthermore, we could experience delays or a halt in installations due to a variety of other factors including catastrophic weather conditions such as hurricanes which are prone to the Miami area. Additionally, unexpected technical installation challenges or product performance issues could occur, also resulting in delays in the recognition of revenues or erosion of gross profits from these orders. 7 Avaya was recently acquired by private investors who may materially alter Avaya’s strategies, including their vendor incentive programs, which might be detrimental to our operating results. Avaya has been acquired by a consortium of private equity firms and is no longer a public company. Avaya’s goals, focus and strategies may change materially as the new owners’ influence on Avaya’s operations increases. The changes could be detrimental to our own strategies and goals and could negatively impact our short-term and or long-term operating results. Additionally, Avaya has historically provided various financial incentive programs to support increasing the market share, promotion, and sale of its products. The sum of these incentive amounts are material to our operating results. Typically, Avaya announces changes to these programs at least annually, and in some years those changes have had a negative impact on the incentive payments we have received. It is possible that as a result of strategic decisions by Avaya’s new owners, future changes could be more frequent and more adverse to our business model and, therefore, we may experience difficulty in maintaining the level of incentive payments which we have enjoyed in prior years. The financial condition of Nortel is uncertain and actions they may take could hurt our operating results. In recent years, Nortel has endured severe financial difficulties, made significant senior management changes, and restated its financial results numerous times. Recent developments indicate that these financial and accounting difficulties may be subsiding. However, substantial litigation and government investigations continue to be unresolved and it is possible that unfavorable outcomes or settlements of these matters might require Nortel to take actions that could be detrimental to our operating results or financial condition. Microsoft Corporation has announced it is entering the unified communications market, which could result in significant disruption to the current communications market landscape. Microsoft Corporation (“Micrsosoft”) has announced several new products that will compete directly with existing Avaya and Nortel applications. Microsoft represents a significant entrant into the converged communications market and may cause a significant disruption to our strategy of aligning our efforts with current market leaders Avaya and Nortel. The timing and quality of our reaction to Microsoft’s entrance into the market, the quality of these new products, and the market acceptance of these products will dictate the potential positive or negative impact to us. We are faced with intense competition fueled by rapid changes in the technologies and markets in which we operate. The market for our products and services is highly competitive and subject to rapidly changing technologies. As the industry evolves and new technologies and products are introduced into the marketplace, new participants enter the market and existing competitors seek to strengthen their positions and expand their product/service offerings. There has been a trend toward industry consolidation, which can lead to the creation of stronger competitors who may be better able to compete as a sole-source vendor for customers. While we believe that through our transformation and expansion during the last few years, we are well-positioned to compete effectively in the marketplace, our failure to maintain or enhance this position could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Revenues and gross profits earned by hotels from guest calls continue to decline, which may result in hotels canceling their call accounting maintenance agreements with us. Increasing use of cell phones by guests has caused a rapid decline in hotels’ revenues and gross profits earned from long distance and other telephone-related fees. This development has severely reduced the importance of call accounting systems in hotels. As a result, we have experienced some erosion in our base of maintenance contracts as customers cancelled their call accounting maintenance contracts with us. In fiscal 2007 we earned $3.0 million in revenues associated with these maintenance contracts compared with $3.7 in fiscal 2006. The additional loss of or reduction in these revenues could materially and negatively impact our operating results. The success of our business depends significantly upon our ability to retain and recruit highly skilled personnel. Our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain highly skilled and qualified technical and sales personnel is critical to our success. Competition for such employees in the rapidly changing communications industry is fierce. As we have transformed our company into an integrated communications solutions provider, we have invested heavily in the hiring and training of personnel to sell and service our portfolio of products and services. If we are unable to retain our skilled employees or to hire additional qualified personnel as needed, it could adversely impact our ability to implement our strategies efficiently and effectively. 8 The technology we sell is highly complex and changes rapidly, increasing our reliance upon the manufacturers for technical assistance and increasing the risk that our inventories on hand will become obsolete. The communications equipment we sell is highly complex and requires significant technical resources to design, install, and maintain. This complexity may require us to rely heavily upon the manufacturers’ technical staff to support the installation and maintenance of communications systems. This reliance may result in lower services revenue or lower profit margins earned on our services revenue. In addition to their complexity, the systems are evolving rapidly as product enhancements are introduced by the manufacturers. These rapid changes present risks that our inventory on hand will become obsolete, resulting in the need to reduce sales margins to sell the equipment or in direct write-offs in the value of the equipment. Any of these results would be detrimental to our profitability. Our business is directly affected by capital spending trends in the United States and, in particular, market conditions for communications and networking equipment and services. The direction and relative strength of the U.S. economy has recently been increasingly uncertain due to softness in the housing market, rising oil prices, and continuing geopolitical uncertainties. Because our business is directly affected by capital spending on technology equipment in the U.S., our business would be directly and negatively impacted if these concerns continue to grow to the point that large enterprises begin curtailing their capital spending,. The loss of either our Elite designation or Platinum Level status with Nortel and Avaya, respectively, could negatively impact our ability to differentiate our products and services in the market. Both Nortel and Avaya have different status levels for their business partners based on technical and sales capabilities and purchasing volumes. Currently, we hold the highest level of status with each manufacturer. We emphasize the fact that we are one of the few providers in our market to have the highest status level with each manufacturer and we believe that this is a significant differentiator with some customers. While we expect to be able to maintain the technical capabilities, sales skill sets, and purchasing volumes to maintain our statuses, a downgrade in our status with either manufacturer or both could have a material impact on our reputation in the market, which in turn could negatively impact our operating results. The introduction of new products could result in reduced revenues, reduced gross margins, reduced customer satisfaction, and longer collection periods. We are selling a variety of new, highly complex products that incorporate leading-edge technology, including both hardware and software. The early versions of these products, which we are selling currently, can contain software “bugs” and other defects that can cause the products to not function as intended. We will be dependent upon Avaya and Nortel to fix these problems as they occur. An inability of the manufacturer to correct these problems quickly could result in damage to our reputation, reduced revenues, reduced customer satisfaction, delays in payments from customers for products purchased, and potential liabilities. Compliance with new corporate governance regulations may require a material increase in our operating expenses beginning in fiscal 2008. We are required to comply with a host of new government-mandated corporate governance and accounting regulations, the most significant of which is section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Under the current guidelines issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission, our management report on internal controls over financial reporting must be complete by our fiscal year ended October 31, 2008 and our auditor’s attestation report on internal control over financial reporting will be initially required for our fiscal year ended October 31, 2010. We believe, based on new guidance provided to small public companies from the Public Companies Accounting Oversight Board and discussions with our external auditors and consultants in this field that expenditures required to comply with these regulations will not be material to our overall operating results. However, since we have not completed our work in this area and will not complete it until the end of the fiscal year, we cannot provide assurance that significant unexpected costs might be incurred which could materially impact our operating results. A significant portion of our expected growth in services revenues is dependent upon our relationship with a few wholesale customers. Much of the current growth in our services business is coming from Nortel and Verizon as they use us as a subcontractor to service many of their high profile end-user customers. While we believe our relationship with these companies is strong, future changes in Nortel personnel, negative service events, and competitive factors could jeopardize this revenue stream. 9 Hitachi’s decision to cease manufacturing communications systems for the hospitality market has caused some uncertainty with respect to our future relationship with our Hitachi installed base of hospitality customers. Hitachi, once one of the leading suppliers of traditional PBX systems to the hospitality market, ceased selling systems for this market in March 2005. We have many long-time hospitality customers with significant portfolios of Hitachi systems in their hotels. We have several hundred Hitachi systems under service contracts producing recurring contract revenues and gross profits for our business. Over the next seven to eight years, all of these customers will have to transition their communications systems to new platforms, presenting a risk to us that another vendor may be selected to service their communications systems. Our entry into the Mitel product line is in part a response to Hitachi’s exit of the hospitality market. While Hitachi’s exit from the market created some uncertainty in our relationship with existing customers, we believe our relationship with our Hitachi customers is strong. Consequently, we believe that in most instances we will be in a favorable position to supply a new system to our customers when they decide to replace their Hitachi system. Additionally, during the third quarter of fiscal 2006 we acquired the remaining assets and liabilities of Hitachi’s U.S. hospitality market. Included in the assets acquired was a substantial supply of new and refurbished inventory that enables us to serve our Hitachi customers. Despite these mitigating factors, no assurance can be given that Hitachi’s exit from this market will not negatively impact our financial results in the future. We are connecting our products to our customers’ computer networks and problems with the implementation of these products could cause disruption to our customers’ entire operations. Unlike traditional stand-alone voice systems, our new IP-based products typically are connected to our customers’ existing local and wide area networks. While we believe the risk of our products disrupting other traffic or operations on these networks is low, such problems could occur, which could cause significant disruption to our customers’ operations. These disruptions, in turn, could result in reduced customer satisfaction, delays in payments from customers for products and services purchased, damage to our reputation, and potential liabilities. We expect our gross margins to vary over time. Our gross margins are impacted by a variety of factors, including changes in customer and product mix, increased price competition, changes in vendor incentive programs, and changes in shipment volume. We expect these factors to cause our gross margins to be inconsistent as we make quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year comparisons. If our dealer agreements with the original equipment manufacturers are terminated prematurely or unexpectedly, our business could be adversely affected. We sell communications systems under dealer agreements with Avaya, Nortel, and Mitel. We are a major dealer for Avaya and Nortel and consider our relationship with both to be good. Nevertheless, if our strategic relationship with our manufacturers were to be terminated prematurely or unexpectedly, our operating results would be adversely impacted. Furthermore, these agreements require that we meet certain volume commitments to earn the pricing structure provided in the dealer agreements. Failure to meet these requirements could cause material adverse consequences to our gross margins and overall operating results. We are dependent upon a few suppliers. Our growth and ability to meet customer demand depends in part on our capability to obtain timely deliveries of products from suppliers. All of our manufacturers utilize a two-tier distribution model in which a few third-party companies (super distributors) distribute their products to their respective dealer communities. In the case of one such distributor, they distribute both Avaya and Nortel products. The limited amount of distribution available for each of these product lines increases our risk of interruptions in the supply of products in the future. We might have to record a significant goodwill impairment loss in the event our business was to suffer a severe decline. Under SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”, we are required to evaluate the fair value of each of our reporting units annually to determine if the fair value is less than the carrying value of those reporting units. If we determine that is the case, then an impairment loss will be recorded in our statement of operations. The determination of fair value is a highly subjective exercise and can produce significantly different results based on the assumptions used and methodologies employed. It is likely that if our financial results were to decline substantially and if macroeconomic conditions eroded, we would have to record a non-cash impairment loss in our statement of operations. 10 If our business grows significantly over the next three years, the successful completion of our Oracle implementation project will be critical to our ability to effectively and efficiently operate our business in the future; implementation of the system will significantly increase our amortization expense. As XETA approaches the threshold of $100 million in revenues, timely and accurate business information will be increasingly important. Implementing our business plan and monitoring progress depends on the efficient accumulation and distribution and analysis of business intelligence. We have been working on a major upgrade to our technology infrastructure and information systems to consolidate our mission-critical legacy systems from four to one. From fiscal 2001 through fiscal 2006 we purposely imposed constraints on capital spending and slowed the development of this system and the consolidation.. Furthermore, at current revenue and transaction levels, conversion to this new system is not essential to our near-term success. However, we have proceeded with the project while our revenues are at lower levels, in anticipation of future growth, which will require upgraded and consolidated infrastructure. While we are taking great care to properly plan this implementation and to fully test the solution prior to the conversion, we cannot guarantee that the conversion will not disrupt our operations. We recognized $619,000 and $429,000 in amortization expense in fiscal 2007 and 2006, respectively reflecting the fact that certain functions of the system were available and used in our business operations. When fully implemented we estimate that the annual amortization expense will increase to $1.2 million. Although a non-cash charge, this expense will have a material, negative impact on our operating results. If industry consolidation continues, it may become more difficult to compete in our market. Recently there has been significant merger and acquisition activity in our industry which has created larger and stronger competitors. If consolidation continues, XETA may become one of the smaller national dealers of the products and services we sell. This could negatively impact our ability to market our services to national customers. Our stock price may continue to be volatile. Historically, our stock is not widely followed by investment analysts and is subject to price and trading volume volatility. This volatility is sometimes tied to overall market conditions and may or may not reflect our financial performance. It is likely that this volatility will continue. Our business is subject to the risks of tornadoes and other natural catastrophic events and to interruptions caused by man-made problems such as computer viruses or terrorism. Our corporate headquarters and NSC are located in northeastern Oklahoma, a region known as “tornado alley”. A significant natural disaster, such as a tornado, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. In addition, despite our implementation of network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, hacking, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering of our computer systems. Any such event could also cause a similar material adverse impact. In addition, acts of war or terrorism could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. The continued threat of terrorism and associated security and military response, or any future acts of terrorism may further disrupt our national economy and create further uncertainties. To the extent that such disruptions or uncertainties result in delays or cancellations of customer orders, or impact the assembly or shipment of our products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We may be subject to infringement claims and litigation, which could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from selling certain products and services. Third parties, including customers, may assert claims or initiate legal action against our manufacturers, suppliers, customers or us, alleging that the products we sell infringe on another’s proprietary rights. Regardless merit such claims can be time-consuming, expensive, and/or require us to enter into costly license agreements. In some instances, a successful claim could prevent us from selling a particular product or service. We have not conducted patent searches on the third party-products we distribute to independently determine if they infringe upon another’s proprietary rights; nor would it be practical or cost-effective for us to do so. Rather, we rely on infringement indemnities provided by the equipment manufacturers. However, because these indemnities are not absolute and in some instances have limits of coverage, no assurance can be given that in the event of a claim, our indemnification by the equipment manufacturer will be adequate to hold us harmless or that we are entitled to indemnification by the equipment manufacturer. 11 If any infringement or other intellectual property claim is brought against us succeeds, whether it is based upon a third-party manufacturer’s equipment that we distribute or upon our own proprietary products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to a variety of other general risks and uncertainties inherent in doing business. In addition to the specific factors discussed above, we are subject to risks that are inherent to doing business.These include growth rates, general economic and political conditions, customer satisfaction with the quality of our services, costs of obtaining insurance, unexpected death of key employees, changes in employment laws and regulations, changes in tax laws and regulations, and other events that can impact revenues and the cost of doing business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. ITEM 