Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company is subject to certain risks. In addition to the factors discussed below, please see the discussion under “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk.” These factors, along with the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, should be considered in evaluating forward-looking statements, and undue reliance should not be placed on such statements. We may have higher credit losses than our allowance for credit losses. Our credit losses could exceed the allowance for credit losses we have set aside. Reliance on historic credit loss experience may not be indicative of future credit losses. Approximately 65% of our loan portfolio is composed of construction, commercial mortgage and commercial loans. Repayment of such loans is generally considered more subject to market risk than residential mortgage loans. Industry experience shows that a portion of loans will become delinquent and a portion of the loans will require partial or entire charge-off. Regardless of the underwriting criteria we utilize, losses may be experienced as a result of various factors beyond our control, including, among other things, changes in market conditions affecting the value of our loan collateral and problems affecting the credit repayment capacity of our borrowers. Risks Relating to the Proposed Merger of Equals with LSB Consummation of the proposed merger of the Company and LSB is subject to the satisfaction of various closing conditions, including approval by the requisite votes of the shareholders of the Company and LSB, regulatory approval of the Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the Commission, as well as other customary closing conditions described in the Agreement and Plan of Merger. The Company cannot guarantee that these closing conditions will be satisfied, or that the proposed merger will be successfully completed. In the event that the proposed merger is not completed, or is not completed within the expected timescale: management’s attention from the Company’s day-to-day business may be diverted; the Company may lose key employees; the Company’s relationships with customers and vendors may be disrupted as a result of uncertainties as to the future of the Company; the Company may be required to pay a significant break up fee of $9 million; and the market price of the Company’s common stock may decline to the extent that the current market price reflects a market assumption that the proposed merger will be completed. In addition, in the event that the merger is completed, there is a risk that the businesses of LSB and/or the Company will not be integrated successfully or such integration may be more difficult, time-consuming or costly than expected; expected revenue synergies and cost savings from the merger may not be fully realized or realized within the expected time frame; revenues following the merger may be lower than expected; customer and employee relationships and business operations may be disrupted by the merger. Any such events could have a material negative impact on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition and could adversely affect the Company’s stock price. 16 Table of Contents Our growth strategy may not be successful. As a strategy, we have sought to increase the size of our franchise by aggressively pursuing business development opportunities, and we have grown rapidly during the last decade. We can provide no assurance that we will continue to be successful in increasing the volume of our loans and deposits at acceptable risk levels and upon acceptable terms, expanding our asset base while managing the costs and implementation risks associated with this growth strategy. There can be no assurance that any further expansion will be profitable or that we will continue to be able to sustain our historical rate of growth, either through internal growth or through other successful expansions of our banking markets, or that we will be able to maintain capital sufficient to support our continued growth. Interest rate volatility could significantly harm our business. The Company’s results of operations are affected by the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government and the regulatory policies of governmental authorities. A significant component of the Company’s earnings is the net interest income of its subsidiary, FNB Southeast. Net interest income is the difference between income from interest-earning assets, such as loans, and the expense of interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits. We may not be able to effectively manage changes in what we charge as interest on our earning assets and the expense we must pay on interest-bearing liabilities, which may significantly reduce our earnings. The Reserve Bank has made significant changes in interest rates during the last few years. Since rates charged on loans often tend to react to market conditions faster than do rates paid on deposit accounts, these rate changes may have a negative impact on our earnings until we can make appropriate adjustments in our deposit rates. In addition, there are costs associated with our risk management techniques, and these costs could be material. Fluctuations in interest rates are not predictable or controllable and, therefore, there can be no assurances of our ability to continue to maintain a consistent positive spread between the interest earned on our earning assets and the interest paid on our interest-bearing liabilities. If we lose key employees with significant business contacts in our market area, our business may suffer. Our success is largely dependent on the personal contacts of our officers and employees in our market areas. If we lose key employees temporarily or permanently, our business could be hurt. We could be particularly hurt if our key employees go to work for competitors. Our future success depends on the continued contributions of our existing senior management personnel, many of whom have significant local experience and contacts in our market areas. Government regulations may prevent or impair our ability to pay dividends, engage in additional acquisitions, or operate in other ways. Current and future legislation and the policies established by federal and state regulatory authorities will affect our operations. We are subject to supervision and periodic examination by the Reserve Bank and the Commission. Our principal subsidiary, FNB Southeast, as a state chartered commercial bank, also receives regulatory scrutiny from the Reserve Bank, the FDIC, and the Commission. Banking regulations, designed primarily for the protection of depositors, may limit our growth and the return to you as an investor in our company, by restricting our activities, such as: • the payment of dividends to shareholders; • possible transactions with or acquisitions by other institutions; • desired investments; • loans and interest rates; • the level of our allowance for credit losses; • imposing higher capital requirements; • interest rates paid on deposits; • the possible expansion of branch offices; and • the ability to provide other services. We cannot predict what changes, if any, will be made to existing federal and state legislation and regulations or the effect that such changes may have on our business. The cost of compliance with regulatory requirements may adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. 17 Table of Contents We cannot predict what changes, if any, will be made to existing federal and state legislation and regulations or the effect that such changes may have on our business. The cost of compliance with regulatory requirements may adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. We face strong competition in our market areas, which may limit our asset growth and profitability. The banking business in our market areas is very competitive, and the level of competition facing us may increase further, which may limit our asset growth and/or profitability. We experience competition in both lending and attracting deposits from other banks and nonbank financial institutions located withinour market area, some of which are significantly larger institutions. Nonbank competitors for deposits and deposit-type accounts include savings associations, credit unions, securities firms, money market funds, life insurance companies and the mutual funds industry. For loans, we encounter competition from other banks, savings associations, finance companies, mortgage bankers and brokers, insurance companies, small loan and credit card companies, credit unions, pension trusts and securities firms. The common stock of FNB Financial Services Corporation is not FDIC insured. The common stock of the Company is not a savings or deposit account or other obligation of any bank and is not insured by the FDIC or any other governmental agency and is subject to investment risk, including the possible loss of principal. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 18 Table of Contents Item 