Item 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, the following factors should be considered in evaluating Olin and our business. All of our forward-looking statements should be considered in light of these factors. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of or that we currently deem immaterial also may become important factors that affect us. Sensitivity to Global Economic Conditions and Cyclicality—Our operating results could be negatively affected during economic downturns. The business of most of our customers, particularly our vinyl, urethanes, and pulp and paper customers are, to varying degrees, cyclical and have historically experienced periodic downturns. These economic and industry downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, excess manufacturing capacity and, in some cases, lower average selling prices. Therefore, any significant downturn in our customers’ businesses or in global economic conditions could result in a reduction in demand for our products and could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Although we do not generally sell a large percentage of our products directly to customers abroad, a large part of our financial performance is dependent upon a healthy economy beyond North America. Our customers sell their products abroad. As a result, our business is affected by general economic conditions and other factors in Western Europe and most of East Asia, particularly China and Japan, including fluctuations in interest rates, customer demand, labor costs, currency changes, and other factors beyond our control. The demand for our customers’ products, and therefore, our products, is directly affected by such fluctuations. In addition, our customers could decide to move some or all of their production to lower cost, offshore locations, and this could reduce demand in North America for our products. We cannot assure you that events having an adverse effect on the industries in which we operate will not occur or continue, such as a downturn in the Western European, Asian or world economies, increases in interest rates, or unfavorable currency fluctuations. Economic conditions in other regions of the world, predominantly Asia and Europe, can increase the amount of caustic soda produced and available for export to North America. The increased caustic soda supply can put downward pressure on our caustic soda prices, negatively impacting our profitability. 10 Cyclical Pricing Pressure—Our profitability could be reduced by declines in average selling prices of our products, particularly declines in the ECU netback for chlorine and caustic. Our historical operating results reflect the cyclical and sometimes volatile nature of the chemical and ammunition industries. We experience cycles of fluctuating supply and demand in each of our business segments, particularly in Chlor Alkali Products, which result in changes in selling prices. Periods of high demand, tight supply and increasing operating margins tend to result in increases in capacity and production until supply exceeds demand, generally followed by periods of oversupply and declining prices. The significant North American chlor alkali capacity (over 100,000 annual ECU’s) which became operational during 2009 was at the Shintech, Inc. facility in Plaquemine, LA. In North America, because Shintech consumes the chlorine it produces, this expansion may result in more caustic soda supply in the market. Dow announced the permanent closure in 2009 of a portion of their Oyster Creek (Freeport), TX facility. Another factor influencing demand and pricing for chlorine and caustic soda is the price of natural gas. Higher natural gas prices increase our customers’ and competitors’ manufacturing costs, and depending on the ratio of crude oil to gas prices, could make them less competitive in world markets. Continued expansion offshore, particularly in Asia, will continue to have an impact on the ECU values as imported caustic soda replaces some capacity in the U.S. Price in the chlor alkali industry is the major supplier selection criterion. We have little or no ability to influence prices in this large commodity market. Decreases in the average selling prices of our products could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. For example, assuming all other costs remain constant and internal consumption remains approximately the same, a $10 per ECU selling price change equates to an approximate $17 million annual change in our revenues and pretax profit when we are operating at full capacity. While we strive to maintain or increase our profitability by reducing costs through improving production efficiency, emphasizing higher margin products, and by controlling transportation, selling, and administration expenses, we cannot assure you that these efforts will be sufficient to offset fully the effect of decreases in pricing on operating results. Because of the cyclical nature of our businesses, we cannot assure you that pricing or profitability in the future will be comparable to any particular historical period, including the most recent period shown in our operating results. We cannot assure you that the chlor alkali industry will not experience adverse trends in the future, or that our operating results and/or financial condition will not be adversely affected by them. Our Winchester segment is also subject to changes in operating results as a result of cyclical pricing pressures, but to a lesser extent than the Chlor Alkali Products segment. Selling prices of ammunition are affected by changes in raw material costs and availability and customer demand, and declines in average selling prices of our Winchester segment could adversely affect our profitability. Imbalance in Demand for Our Chlor Alkali Products—A loss of a substantial customer for our chlorine or caustic soda could cause an imbalance in demand for these products, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Chlorine and caustic soda are produced simultaneously and in a fixed ratio of 1.0 ton of chlorine to 1.1 tons of caustic soda. The loss of a substantial chlorine or caustic soda customer could cause an imbalance in demand for our chlorine and caustic soda products. An imbalance in demand may require us to reduce production of both chlorine and caustic soda or take other steps to correct the imbalance. Since we cannot store chlorine, we may not be able to respond to an imbalance in demand for these products as quickly or efficiently as some of our competitors. If a substantial imbalance occurred, we would need to reduce prices or take other actions that could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. 11 Environmental Costs—We have ongoing environmental costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. The nature of our operations and products, including the raw materials we handle, exposes us to the risk of liabilities or claims with respect to environmental matters. In addition, we are party to various governmental and private environmental actions associated with past manufacturing facilities and former waste disposal sites. We have incurred, and expect to incur, significant costs and capital expenditures in complying with environmental laws and regulations. The ultimate costs and timing of environmental liabilities are difficult to predict. Liabilities under environmental laws relating to contaminated sites can be imposed retroactively and on a joint and several basis. One liable party could be held responsible for all costs at a site, regardless of fault, percentage of contribution to the site or the legality of the original disposal. We could incur significant costs, including cleanup costs, natural resources damages, civil or criminal fines and sanctions and third-party lawsuits claiming, for example, personal injury and/or property damage, as a result of past or future violations of, or liabilities under, environmental or other laws. In addition, future events, such as changes to or more rigorous enforcement of environmental laws, could require us to make additional expenditures, modify or curtail our operations and/or install pollution control equipment. Accordingly, it is possible that some of the matters in which we are involved or may become involved may be resolved unfavorably to us, which could materially adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Environmental Matters.” Effects of Regulation—Changes in legislation or government regulations or policies, including tax policies, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. Legislation that may be passed by Congress or other legislative bodies or new regulations that may be issued by federal and other administrative agencies could significantly affect the sales, costs and profitability of our business. The chemical and ammunition industries are subject to legislative and regulatory actions, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. During the second and third quarters of 2009, a bill was introduced in the United States House of Representatives and the Senate, respectively, which, if enacted, would ban the production of chlor alkali products using mercury cell technology two years from the date it is enacted into law. On October 21, 2009, the House of Representatives Committee on Energy and Commerce passed a bill that would require chlor alkali producers using mercury cell technology to make a decision by June 30, 2012 as to whether to shutdown or convert these facilities. If the decision is to convert, the mercury cell plants would be required to be converted by June 30, 2015. If the decision is not to convert, the plants would be required to be shutdown by June 30, 2013. For this bill to become law it must be passed by the full House of Representatives and the full Senate. No additional action has been taken on this bill since October in the House of Representatives and no action has yet been taken by the Senate on its bill. We currently operate two facilities which utilize mercury cell technology totaling approximately 350,000 ECUs of capacity (approximately 18% of our capacity). We are closely monitoring the progress of these bills, but it is too soon to estimate the likelihood of enactment, and therefore to determine what impact there will be on us and the chlor alkali industry. We operate our mercury cell facilities in full compliance with all environmental rules and regulations. Litigation and Claims—We are subject to litigation and other claims, which could cause us to incur significant expenses. We are a defendant in a number of pending legal proceedings relating to our present and former operations. These include proceedings alleging injurious exposure of plaintiffs to various chemicals and other substances (including proceedings based on alleged exposures to asbestos). Frequently, such proceedings involve claims made by numerous plaintiffs against many defendants. However, because of the inherent uncertainties of litigation, we are unable to predict the outcome of these proceedings and therefore cannot determine whether the financial impact, if any, will be material to our financial position or results of operations. 12 Security and Chemicals Transportation—New regulations on the transportation of hazardous chemicals and/or the security of chemical manufacturing facilities and public policy changes related to transportation safety could result in significantly higher operating costs. The chemical industry, including the chlor alkali industry, has proactively responded to the issues related to national security and environmental concerns by starting new initiatives relating to the security of chemicals industry facilities and the transportation of hazardous chemicals in the United States. Government at the local, state, and federal levels also has begun regulatory processes which could lead to new regulations that would impact the security of chemical plant locations and the transportation of hazardous chemicals. Our Chlor Alkali business could be adversely impacted by the cost of complying with any new regulations. Our business also could be adversely affected because of an incident at one of our facilities or while transporting product. The extent of the impact would depend on the requirements of future regulations and the nature of an incident, which are unknown at this time. Production Hazards—Our facilities are subject to operating hazards, which may disrupt our business. We are dependent upon the continued safe operation of our production facilities. Our production facilities are subject to hazards associated with the manufacture, handling, storage and transportation of chemical materials and products and ammunition, including leaks and ruptures, explosions, fires, inclement weather and natural disasters, unexpected utility disruptions or outages, unscheduled downtime and environmental hazards. From time to time in the past, we have had incidents that have temporarily shut down or otherwise disrupted our manufacturing, causing production delays and resulting in liability for workplace injuries and fatalities. Some of our products involve the manufacture and/or handling of a variety of explosive and flammable materials. Use of these products by our customers could also result in liability if an explosion, fire, spill or other accident were to occur. We cannot assure you that we will not experience these types of incidents in the future or that these incidents will not result in production delays or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Cost Control—Our profitability could be reduced if we continue to experience increasing raw material, utility, transportation or logistics costs, or if we fail to achieve our targeted cost reductions. Our operating results and profitability are dependent upon our continued ability to control, and in some cases further reduce, our costs. If we are unable to do so, or if costs outside of our control, particularly our costs of raw materials, utilities, transportation and similar costs, increase beyond anticipated levels, our profitability will decline. Credit Facilities—Weak industry conditions could affect our ability to comply with the financial maintenance covenants in our senior revolving credit facility and our Accounts Receivable Facility. Our senior revolving credit facility and our Accounts Receivable Facility include certain financial maintenance covenants requiring us to not exceed a maximum leverage ratio and to maintain a minimum coverage ratio. Depending on the magnitude and duration of chlor alkali cyclical downturns, including deterioration in prices and volumes, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be in compliance with these ratios. If we failed to comply with either of these covenants in a future period and were not able to obtain waivers from the lenders thereunder, we would need to refinance our current senior revolving credit facility and Accounts Receivable Facility. However, there can be no assurance that such refinancing would be available to us on terms that would be acceptable to us or at all. Pension Plans—The impact of declines in global equity and fixed income markets on asset values and any declines in interest rates used to value the liabilities in our pension plan may result in higher pension costs and the need to fund the pension plan in future years in material amounts. In May 2007 and September 2006, we made voluntary pension plan contributions of $100.0 million and $80.0 million, respectively. 13 Under Accounting Standard Codification (ASC) 715 “Compensation–Retirement Benefits” (ASC 715), formerly Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 158, “Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans,” (SFAS No. 158), we recorded an after-tax charge of $27.3 million ($41.7 million pretax) to shareholders’ equity as of December 31, 2009 for our pension and other postretirement plans. This charge reflected a 50-basis point decrease in the plans discount rate, partially offset by the favorable performance on plan assets during 2009. In 2008, we recorded an after-tax charge of $99.4 million ($162.7 million pretax) to shareholders’ equity as of December 31, 2008 for our pension and other postretirement plans. This charge reflected the unfavorable performance on plan assets during 2008. In 2007, we recorded a $138.3 million after-tax credit ($226.6 million pretax) to shareholders’ equity as of December 31, 2007 for our pension and other postretirement plans. This credit reflected a 25-basis point increase in the plans’ discount rate, combined with an increase in the value of the plan assets from favorable plan performance and the $100.0 million contribution. The non-cash charges or credits to shareholders’ equity do not affect our ability to borrow under our senior revolving credit agreement. During 2007, the asset allocation in the plan was adjusted to attempt to insulate the plan from discount rate risk and reduce the plan’s exposure to equity investments. Effective January 1, 2005, our defined benefit pension plan was closed to new salaried and certain non-bargained hourly employees. Subsequently, as new collective bargaining agreements were negotiated, by January 1, 2009, our defined benefit pension plan was closed to all our new union-represented employees. Effective January 1, 2008, we froze our defined benefit pension plan for salaried and certain non-bargained hourly workers and these employees began to participate in a defined contribution pension plan. In 2010, we expect pension income associated with the defined benefit pension plan to be similar compared to 2009. The determinations of pension expense and pension funding are based on a variety of rules and regulations. Changes in these rules and regulations could impact the calculation of pension plan liabilities and the valuation of pension plan assets. They may also result in higher pension costs, additional financial statement disclosure, and accelerate the need to fully fund the pension plan. During the third quarter of 2006, the “Pension Protection Act of 2006” became law, amended by “The Worker, Retiree, and Employer Recovery Act,” during the fourth quarter of 2008. Among the stated objectives of the laws were the protection of both pension beneficiaries and the financial health of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC). To accomplish these objectives, the new laws required sponsors to fund defined benefit pension plans earlier than previous requirements and to pay increased PBGC premiums. Based on the combination of the asset allocation adjustment, the favorable asset performance in 2006, 2007 and 2009, the $100.0 million and $80.0 million voluntary contributions, and the benefits from the plan freeze, offset by the unfavorable performance on plan assets in 2008, we will not be required to make any cash contributions to the domestic defined benefit pension plan at least through 2010. We do have a small Canadian defined benefit pension plan to which we made $4.5 million of contributions in 2009 and we anticipate approximately $4 million of contributions in 2010. At December 31, 2009, the market value of assets in our defined benefit pension plans of $1,722.0 million exceeded the projected benefit obligation by $5.0 million. In addition, the impact of declines in global equity and fixed income markets on asset values may result in higher pension costs and may increase and accelerate the need to fund the pension plan in future years. For example, holding all other assumptions constant, a 100-basis point decrease or increase in the assumed rate of return on plan assets would have decreased or increased, respectively, the 2009 defined benefit pension plan income by approximately $15.6 million. Holding all other assumptions constant, a 50-basis point decrease in the discount rate used to calculate pension income for 2009 and the projected benefit obligation as of December 31, 2009 would have decreased pension income by $1.4 million and increased the projected benefit obligation by $82.0 million. A 50-basis point increase in the discount rate used to calculate pension income for 2009 and the projected benefit obligation as of December 31, 2009 would have increased pension income by $2.7 million and decreased the projected benefit obligation by $83.0 million. 14 Indebtedness—Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and limit our ability to grow and compete, which could prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our indebtedness. As of December 31, 2009, we had $398.4 million of indebtedness outstanding, including $1.4 million representing the fair value related to $26.6 million of interest rate swaps and $5.5 million representing the unrecognized gain related to $75 million of interest rate swaps at December 31, 2009. This outstanding indebtedness excludes our guarantee of $48.8 million of indebtedness of SunBelt. This does not include our $240.0 million senior revolving credit facility of which we had $219.6 million available on that date because we had issued $20.4 million of letters of credit or our $75 million accounts receivable securitization facility (Accounts Receivable Facility). As of December 31, 2009, our indebtedness represented 32.6% of our total capitalization. At December 31, 2009, none of our indebtedness was due within one year. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and limit our ability to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes, to accommodate growth by reducing funds otherwise available for other corporate purposes, and to compete, which in turn could prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our indebtedness. In addition, our indebtedness could make us more vulnerable to any continuing downturn in general economic conditions and reduce our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions. Despite our level of indebtedness, the terms of our senior revolving credit facility, our Accounts Receivable Facility, and our existing indentures permit us to borrow additional money. If we borrow more money, the risks related to our indebtedness could increase. Debt Service—We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service our debt, which may require us to refinance our indebtedness or default on our scheduled debt payments. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to make scheduled payments on our debt depends on a range of economic, competitive and business factors, many of which are outside our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations. If we are unable to meet our expenses and debt obligations, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, sell assets or raise equity. We cannot assure you that we would be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, sell assets or raise equity on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could cause us to default on our obligations and impair our liquidity. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our obligations on commercially reasonable terms, would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as on our ability to satisfy our debt obligations. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” See Item 7A—“Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” and “Liquidity and Other Financing Arrangements.” Credit and Capital Market Conditions—Adverse conditions in the credit and capital markets may limit or prevent our ability to borrow or raise capital. While we believe we have facilities in place that should allow us to borrow funds as needed, adverse conditions in the credit and financial markets could prevent us from obtaining financing, if the need arises. Our ability to invest in our businesses and refinance maturing debt obligations could require access to the credit and capital markets and sufficient bank credit lines to support cash requirements. If we are unable to access the credit and capital markets, we could experience a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. 15 Labor Matters—We cannot assure you that we can conclude future labor contracts or any other labor agreements without work stoppages. Various labor unions represent a majority of our hourly-paid employees for collective bargaining purposes. The following labor contract is scheduled to expire in 2010: Location Number of Employees Expiration Date Henderson, NV (Chlor Alkali) 70 March 2010 While we believe our relations with our employees and their various representatives are generally satisfactory, we cannot assure that we can conclude this labor contract or any other labor agreements without work stoppages and cannot assure that any work stoppages will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. Item 