Item 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, the following factors should be considered in evaluating Olin and our business. All of our forward-looking statements should be considered in light of these factors. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of or that we currently deem immaterial also may become important factors that affect us. Sensitivity to Global Economic Conditions and Cyclicality—Our operating results could be negatively affected during economic downturns. The business of most of our customers, particularly our vinyl, urethanes, pulp and paper, automotive, coinage, electrical connectors, telecommunications and housing customers, are, to varying degrees, cyclical and have historically experienced periodic downturns. These economic and industry downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, excess manufacturing capacity and, in some cases, lower average selling prices. Therefore, any significant downturn in our customers’ businesses or in global economic conditions could result in a reduction in demand for our products and could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. As a result of the depressed economic conditions beginning in the fourth quarter of 2000 and continuing through the first half of 2002, our vinyls, urethanes and pulp and paper customers had lower demand for our chlor alkali products. During the period 2000-2003, demand for Chlor Alkali products was low enough to lead to plant shutdowns within the industry and about 12% of capacity was removed from North American production. When demand improved in early 2004, the operating rates increased to the mid to high 90% range, resulting in a tight supply/demand balance which has resulted in increasing pricing. We believe no new significant capacity is anticipated to come on stream until late 2007 or early 2008, and as a result, we believe supply/demand is expected to remain relatively tight and pricing is expected to remain above historical levels. Lower demand in our Metals segment has adversely affected our business and results of operations since 2001. The rod industry has been negatively affected by customers’ migration to lower-cost, offshore locations and by continued reductions in capital spending in the industrial machinery segment and reduced demand for building and household products as a result of declines in commercial construction. In 2005, Metals U.S. demand was down approximately 8% from 2004. Metals demand in the automotive and building products segments were down in 2005, while ammunition, coinage, and electronics market segment shipments all experienced increases over 2004. Although we do not generally sell a large percentage of our products directly to customers abroad, a large part of our financial performance is dependent upon a healthy economy beyond the United States. Our customers sell their products abroad. As a result, our business is affected by general economic conditions and other factors in Western Europe and most of East Asia, particularly China and Japan, including fluctuations in interest rates, customer demand, labor costs and other factors beyond our control. The demand for our customers’ products, and therefore, our products, is directly affected by such fluctuations. We cannot assure you that events having an adverse effect on the industries in which we operate will not occur or continue, such as a further downturn in the Western European, Asian or world economies, increases in interest rates, unfavorable currency fluctuations or a prolonged slowdown in the coinage, electronic or telecommunications industries. The terrorist attacks of September 11th created many economic and political uncertainties and have had a negative impact on the global economy. The long-term effects of these attacks on our future operating results and financial condition are unknown. The national and international responses to terrorist attacks and the potential for additional terrorist attacks or similar events could have further material adverse effects on the economy in general, on our industry and on our operations. For example, war with one or more countries could have numerous consequences for us and our customers, one of which may be sustained high energy prices. Cyclical Pricing Pressure—Our profitability could be reduced by declines in average selling prices of our products, particularly declines in the ECU netback for chlorine and caustic. 10 Our historical operating results reflect the cyclical and sometimes volatile nature of the chemical, metals and ammunition industries. We experience cycles of fluctuating supply and demand in each of our business segments, particularly in Chlor Alkali Products, which results in changes in selling prices. Periods of high demand, tight supply and increasing operating margins tend to result in increased capacity and production until supply exceeds demand, generally followed by periods of oversupply and declining prices. The industry build cycle, and its impact on industry pricing, has been most pronounced in our Chlor Alkali Products segment. For example, in 1995 and 1996, the chlor alkali industry was very profitable due to a tight supply/demand balance, which resulted in both higher operating rates and higher ECU prices. Higher profits led to reinvestment to expand capacity. This new capacity became operational in 1998 and 1999, resulting in industry over-capacity. This imbalance was exacerbated by falling demand as a result of the Asian financial crisis. The supply/demand imbalance resulted in both lower operating rates and lower ECU prices, and in 1999, many chlor alkali producers had operating losses. The supply/demand balance improved due to improved economic conditions in 2000 compared to 1999, and ECU prices increased in 2000 compared to 1999. As the U.S. and world economies deteriorated in 2001 and through the first half of 2002, the chlor alkali industry again experienced a period of oversupply because of lower industry demand for both chlorine and caustic. During the 2000-2003 timeframe about 12% of North American production was shut down which caused operating rates to improve without much improvement in demand. In late 2003 and early 2004, chlorine demand began to strengthen and operating rates increased to the mid to high 90% range. Caustic demand began to strengthen by mid year 2004 and supplies of both products have been tight since that time. This has resulted in price increase initiatives over the last 18 months. We believe that with supply and demand in balance, and no new capacity anticipated to be available in the next couple of years, 2005/2006 may be the cycle peak for the Chlor Alkali Industry. Another factor impacting demand for chlorine and caustic soda is the price of natural gas. Higher natural gas prices, which through 2005 have exceeded $10 per million British thermal units, increase our customers’ manufacturing costs, and depending on the crude oil to gas ratio, could make them less competitive in world markets and, therefore, may result in reduced demand for our products. Price in the chlor alkali industry is a major supplier selection criterion. We have little or no ability to influence prices in this large commodity market. Decreases in the average selling prices of our products could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. For example, assuming all other costs remain constant and internal consumption remains approximately the same, a $10 per ECU selling price change equates to an approximate $11 million annual change in our revenues and pretax profit when we are operating at full capacity. While we strive to maintain or increase our profitability by reducing costs through improving production efficiency, emphasizing higher margin products, and by controlling transportation, selling, and administration expenses, we cannot assure you that these efforts will be sufficient to offset fully the effect of changes in pricing on operating results. Because of the cyclical nature of our businesses, we cannot assure you that pricing or profitability in the future will be comparable to any particular historical period, including the most recent period shown in our operating results. We cannot assure you that the chlor alkali industry will not experience adverse trends in the future, or that our operating results and/or financial condition will not be adversely affected by them. Our Metals and Winchester segments are also subject to changes in operating results as a result of cyclical pricing pressures, but to a lesser extent than the Chlor Alkali Products segment. We generally pass changes in prices for copper and other metals along to our customers as part of the negotiated price of the finished product in most of our Metals segment product lines. However, our Metals segment experiences pricing pressure with respect to its conversion charges, and we cannot assure you that adverse trends in pricing and margins will not affect operating results in the future. Changes in global supply/demand for copper and copper alloys may affect our ability to obtain raw materials under reasonable terms and conditions which may materially adversely affect our operating results. Similarly, selling prices of ammunition are affected by changes in raw material costs and availability and customer demand, and declines in average selling prices of our Winchester segment could adversely affect our profitability. Imbalance in Demand for Our Chlor Alkali Products—A loss of a substantial customer for our chlorine or caustic soda could cause an imbalance in demand for these products, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Chlorine and caustic soda are produced simultaneously and in a fixed ratio of 1.0 ton of chlorine to 1.1 tons of caustic soda. The loss of a substantial chlorine or caustic soda customer could cause an imbalance in demand for our 11 chlorine and caustic soda products. An imbalance in demand may require us to reduce production of both chlorine and caustic soda or take other steps to correct the imbalance. Since we cannot store chlorine, we may not be able to respond to an imbalance in demand for these products as quickly or efficiently as some of our competitors. If a substantial imbalance occurred, we would need to reduce prices or take other actions that could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Pension Plans—The impact of declines in global equity markets on asset values and any declines in interest rates used to value the liabilities in our pension plan may result in higher pension costs and the need to fund the pension plan in future years in material amounts. Under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 87, “Employers’ Accounting for Pensions,” we recorded non-cash after-tax charges of $29.2 million ($47.8 million pretax) and $23.7 million ($38.8 million pretax) to Shareholders’ Equity as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively. These charges reflect an accumulated benefit obligation in excess of the year-end market value of assets of our pension plan. In 2005, the cost impact of plan changes and the adverse effect of lower interest rates more than offset the increase in the value of plan assets and in 2004, the adverse impact of lower interest rates more than offset the increase in plan assets, which necessitated the recording of these after-tax charges to shareholders’ equity. These are non-cash charges and do not affect our ability to borrow under our revolving credit agreement. The determinations of pension expense and pension funding are based on a variety of rules and regulations. Changes in these rules and regulations could impact the calculation of pension plan liabilities and the valuation of pension plan assets. They may also result in higher pension costs, additional financial statement disclosure, and accelerate and increase the need to fund the pension plan. There are currently a number of legislative proposals being considered, that if enacted, would change the current rules. Most of these proposals would accelerate the pension funding compared to funding under the existing rules. In addition, the impact of declines in global equity and bond markets on asset values may result in higher pension costs and may increase and accelerate the need to fund the pension in future years. For example, holding all other assumptions constant, a one hundred basis point decrease or increase in the assumed rate of return on plan assets would have increased or decreased, respectively, the 2005 pension cost by approximately $12.9 million. Holding all other assumptions constant, a 50 basis point decrease or increase in the discount rate used to calculate pension costs for 2005 would have increased or decreased pension costs by $5.2 million and $6.3 million, respectively. The same 50 basis point increase or decrease in the discount rate would have increased or decreased the accumulated benefit obligation by $84.0 million. Environmental Costs—We have ongoing environmental costs, which could materially adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. The nature of our operations and products, including the raw materials we handle, exposes us to the risk of liabilities or claims with respect to environmental matters. We have incurred, and expect to incur, significant costs and capital expenditures in complying with environmental laws and regulations. The ultimate costs and timing of environmental liabilities are difficult to predict. Liability under environmental laws relating to contaminated sites can be imposed retroactively and on a joint and several basis. One liable party could be held responsible for all costs at a site, regardless of fault, percentage of contribution to the site or the legality of the original disposal. We could incur significant costs, including cleanup costs, natural resources damages, civil or criminal fines and sanctions and third-party lawsuits claiming, for example, personal injury and/or property damage, as a result of past or future violations of, or liabilities under, environmental or other laws. In addition, future events, such as changes to or more rigorous enforcement of environmental laws, could require us to make additional expenditures, modify or curtail our operations and/or install pollution control equipment. Accordingly, it is possible that some of the matters in which we are involved or may become involved may be resolved unfavorably to us, which could materially adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Environmental Matters.” 12 Competition—We face competition from other chemical, metals and ammunition companies, including the migration by United States customers to low-cost foreign locations, which could adversely affect our revenues and financial condition. We are in active competition with companies producing the same or similar products, as well as, in some instances, with companies producing different products designed for the same uses. With respect to certain product groups, such as ammunition, copper alloys and brass rod, and with respect to certain chlor alkali products, we are among the largest manufacturers or distributors in the United States. We encounter competition in price, delivery, service, securing and maintaining customers, performance, technology, product innovation, and product recognition and quality, depending on the product involved. Our customers could decide to move some or all of their production to lower cost, offshore locations and this could reduce demand in the United States for our products. With respect to certain products, some of our competitors are larger, have greater financial resources and have less debt than we do. As a result, these competitors may be better able to withstand a change in conditions within the industries in which we operate and throughout the economy as a whole. If we do not compete successfully, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Cost Control—Our profitability could be reduced if we experience higher-than-expected raw material, utility, transportation or logistics costs, or if we fail to achieve our targeted cost reductions. Our operating results and profitability are dependent upon our continued ability to control, and in some cases further reduce, our costs. If we are unable to do so, or if costs outside of our control, particularly our costs of raw materials, utilities, transportation and similar costs, increase beyond anticipated levels, our profitability will decline. Production Hazards—Our facilities are subject to operating hazards, which may disrupt our business. We are dependent upon the continued safe operation of our production facilities. Our production facilities are subject to hazards associated with the manufacture, handling, storage and transportation of chemical materials and products and ammunition, including leaks and ruptures, explosions, fires, inclement weather and natural disasters, unexpected utility disruptions or outages, unscheduled downtime and environmental hazards. From time to time in the past, we have had incidents that have temporarily shut down or otherwise disrupted our manufacturing, causing production delays and resulting in liability for workplace injuries and fatalities. Some of our products involve the manufacture and/or handling of a variety of explosive and flammable materials. Use of these products by our customers could also result in liability if an explosion, fire, spill or other accident were to occur. We cannot assure you that we will not experience these types of incidents in the future or that these incidents will not result in production delays or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Litigation and Claims—We are subject to litigation and other claims, which could cause us to incur significant expenses. We are a defendant in a number of pending legal proceedings relating to our present and former operations. These include proceedings alleging injurious exposure of plaintiffs to various chemicals and other substances (including proceedings based on alleged exposures to asbestos). Frequently, such proceedings involve claims made by numerous plaintiffs against many defendants. We believe we have valid defenses to these proceedings and are defending them vigorously. However, because of the inherent uncertainties of litigation, we are unable to predict the outcome of these proceedings and therefore cannot determine whether the financial impact, if any, will be material to our financial position or results of operations. Indebtedness—Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and limit our ability to grow and compete, which could prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our indebtedness. As of December 31, 2005, we had $258.3 million of indebtedness outstanding, including $6.9 million representing the fair value related to $131.6 million of interest rate swaps in effect at December 31, 2005 and excluding our guarantee of $73.1 million of indebtedness of our SunBelt joint venture. This does not include our $160 million senior credit facility on which we had $122.9 million available on that date because we had issued $37.1 million of letters of credit. As of December 31, 2005, our indebtedness represented 38% of our total capitalization. 13 Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and limit our ability to grow and compete, which in turn could prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our indebtedness. Despite our level of indebtedness, the terms of our senior credit facility and our existing indentures permit us to borrow additional money. If we borrow more money, the risks related to our indebtedness could increase significantly. Debt Service—We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service our debt, which may require us to refinance our indebtedness or default on our scheduled debt payments. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to make scheduled payments on our debt depends on a range of economic, competitive and business factors, many of which are outside our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations. If we are unable to meet our expenses and debt obligations, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, sell assets or raise equity. We cannot assure you that we would be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, sell assets or raise equity on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could cause us to default on our obligations and impair our liquidity. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our obligations on commercially reasonable terms, would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as on our ability to satisfy our debt obligations. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” At December 31, 2005, we had interest rate swaps of $131.6 million, which convert a portion of our fixed rate debt to a variable rate. As a result, 54% of our indebtedness bears interest at variable rates that are linked to short-term interest rates. If interest rates rise, our costs relative to those obligations would also rise. Tax Audits—We are currently subject to ongoing tax audits, which may result in additional tax payments. During 2005, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) substantially completed its audit of our Federal income tax return for the years 2001 and 2002. We are currently contesting various issues before the Appeals Division of the IRS with respect to the years 1996 through 2002. Depending on the outcome of these audits, we may be required to pay additional taxes, and any additional taxes and related interest could be substantial. We have reserved amounts which we believe will be sufficient for any adverse outcome. The timing of any such payments is uncertain. Labor Matters—We cannot assure you that we can conclude future labor contracts or any other labor agreements without work stoppages. Various labor unions represent a majority of our hourly-paid employees for collective bargaining purposes. A description of the labor contracts that are due to expire in the near future are listed below: Location Number of Employees Expiration Date Niagara Falls, NY (Chlor Alkali) 95 July 2006 Bryan, OH (Metals) 40 September 2006 Seymour, CT (Metals) 60 November 2006 Queretaro, Mexico (Metals) 5 February 2007 While we believe our relations with our employees and their various representatives are generally satisfactory, we cannot assure that we can conclude future labor contracts or any other labor agreements without work stoppages and cannot assure that any work stoppages will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Security and Chemicals Transportation—New regulations on the transportation of hazardous chemicals and/or the security of chemical manufacturing facilities and public policy changes related to transportation safety could result in significantly higher operating costs. The chemical industry, including the chlor alkali industry, has proactively responded to the issues surrounding the events of September 11, 2001 by starting new initiatives relating to the security of chemicals industry facilities and the transportation of hazardous chemicals in the United States. Simultaneously, government at the local, state, and federal levels has begun the regulatory process which could lead to new regulations that would impact the security 14 of chemical plant locations and the transportation of hazardous chemicals. Our Chlor Alkali business could be adversely impacted because of an incident at one of our facilities or an incident while transporting product or the cost of complying with new regulations. The extent of the impact would depend on the consequences of an incident and the nature and direction of future regulations, which are unknown at this time. Changes in Laws and Regulations—We are subject to a variety of existing laws and regulations that affect our business. We are unable to determine what effect, if any, the impact of changes in existing or new laws and regulations and the associated compliance costs may have on our operating results. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 