Item 1A. RISK FACTORSIn addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, the following factors should be considered in evaluating Olin and our business. All of our forward-looking statements should be considered in light of these factors. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of or that we currently deem immaterial also may become important factors that affect us.Sensitivity to Global Economic Conditions and Cyclicality—Our operating results could be negatively affected during economic downturns.The business of most of our customers, particularly our vinyl, urethanes and pulp and paper customers are, to varying degrees, cyclical and have historically experienced periodic downturns. These economic and industry downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, excess manufacturing capacity and, in some cases, lower average selling prices. Therefore, any significant downturn in our customers’ businesses or in global economic conditions could result in a reduction in demand for our products and could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.Although we do not generally sell a large percentage of our products directly to customers abroad, a large part of our financial performance is dependent upon a healthy economy beyond North America. Our customers sell their products abroad. As a result, our business is affected by general economic conditions and other factors in Western Europe, South America and most of East Asia, particularly China and Japan, including fluctuations in interest rates, customer demand, labor and energy costs, currency changes and other factors beyond our control. The demand for our customers’ products, and therefore, our products, is directly affected by such fluctuations. In addition, our customers could decide to move some or all of their production to lower cost, offshore locations, and this could reduce demand in North America for our products. We cannot assure you that events having an adverse effect on the industries in which we operate will not occur or continue, such as a downturn in the Western European, South American, Asian or world economies, increases in interest rates or unfavorable currency fluctuations. Economic conditions in other regions of the world, predominantly Asia and Europe, can increase the amount of caustic soda produced and available for export to North America. The increased caustic soda supply can put downward pressure on our caustic soda prices, negatively impacting our profitability.Cyclical Pricing Pressure—Our profitability could be reduced by declines in average selling prices of our products, particularly declines in the ECU netbacks for chlorine and caustic soda.Our historical operating results reflect the cyclical and sometimes volatile nature of the chemical and ammunition industries. We experience cycles of fluctuating supply and demand in each of our business segments, particularly in Chlor Alkali Products, which result in changes in selling prices. Periods of high demand, tight supply and increasing operating margins tend to result in increases in capacity and production until supply exceeds demand, generally followed by periods of oversupply and declining prices. Another factor influencing demand and pricing for chlorine and caustic soda is the price of natural gas. Higher natural gas prices increase our customers’ and competitors’ manufacturing costs, and depending on the ratio of crude oil to natural gas prices, could make them less competitive in world markets. Continued expansion offshore, particularly in Asia, will continue to have an impact on the ECU values as imported caustic soda replaces some capacity in North America.11Price in the chlor alkali industry is the major supplier selection criterion. We have little or no ability to influence prices in this large commodity market. Decreases in the average selling prices of our products could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. For example, in the Chlor Alkali Products segment, assuming all other costs remain constant and internal consumption remains approximately the same, a $10 per ECU selling price change equates to an approximate $15 million annual change in our revenues and pretax profit when we are operating at full capacity. While we strive to maintain or increase our profitability by reducing costs through improving production efficiency, emphasizing higher margin products and by controlling transportation, selling and administration expense, we cannot assure you that these efforts will be sufficient to offset fully the effect of possible decreases in pricing on operating results.Because of the cyclical nature of our businesses, we cannot assure you that pricing or profitability in the future will be comparable to any particular historical period, including the most recent period shown in our operating results. We cannot assure you that the chlor alkali industry will not experience adverse trends in the future, or that our operating results and/or financial condition will not be adversely affected by them.Our Chemical Distribution segment is also subject to changes in operating results as a result of cyclical pricing pressures. The prices at which we resell the products that we distribute often fluctuate in accordance with the prices that we pay for these products, which in turn are driven by the underlying commodity prices, such as caustic soda, in accordance with supply and demand economics. We attempt to pass commodity pricing changes to our customers, but we may be unable to or be delayed in doing so. The inability to pass through price increases or any limitation or delays in passing through price increases in our Chemical Distribution segment could adversely affect our profitability.Our Winchester segment is also subject to changes in operating results as a result of cyclical pricing pressures, but to a lesser extent than the Chlor Alkali Products segment. Selling prices of ammunition are affected by changes in raw material costs and availability and customer demand, and declines in average selling prices of products of our Winchester segment could adversely affect our profitability.Imbalance in Demand for Our Chlor Alkali Products—A loss of a substantial customer for our chlorine or caustic soda could cause an imbalance in demand for these products, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.Chlorine and caustic soda are produced simultaneously and in a fixed ratio of 1.0 ton of chlorine to 1.1 tons of caustic soda. The loss of a substantial chlorine or caustic soda customer could cause an imbalance in demand for our chlorine and caustic soda products. An imbalance in demand may require us to reduce production of both chlorine and caustic soda or take other steps to correct the imbalance. Since we cannot store large quantities of chlorine, we may not be able to respond to an imbalance in demand for these products as quickly or efficiently as some of our competitors. If a substantial imbalance occurred, we would need to reduce prices or take other actions that could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition.Security and Chemicals Transportation—New regulations on the transportation of hazardous chemicals and/or the security of chemical manufacturing facilities and public policy changes related to transportation safety could result in significantly higher operating costs.The chemical industry, including the chlor alkali industry, has proactively responded to the issues related to national security and environmental concerns by starting new initiatives relating to the security of chemicals industry facilities and the transportation of hazardous chemicals in the United States. Government at the local, state and federal levels could implement new regulations that would impact the security of chemical plant locations and the transportation of hazardous chemicals. Our Chlor Alkali Products business could be adversely impacted by the cost of complying with any new regulations. Our business also could be adversely affected if an incident were to occur at one of our facilities or while transporting product. The extent of the impact would depend on the requirements of future regulations and the nature of an incident, which are unknown at this time.Effects of Regulation—Changes in legislation or government regulations or policies, including tax policies, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations.Legislation that may be passed by Congress or other legislative bodies or new regulations that may be issued by federal and other administrative agencies could significantly affect the sales, costs and profitability of our business. The chemical and ammunition industries are subject to legislative and regulatory actions, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations.12Cost Control—Our profitability could be reduced if we experience increasing raw material, utility, transportation or logistics costs, or if we fail to achieve our targeted cost reductions.Our operating results and profitability are dependent upon our continued ability to control, and in some cases further reduce, our costs. If we are unable to do so, or if costs outside of our control, particularly our costs of raw materials, utilities, transportation and similar costs, increase beyond anticipated levels, our profitability will decline.For example, our Chlor Alkali product transportation costs, particularly railroad shipment costs, are a significant portion of our cost of goods sold, and have been increasing over the past several years. If the cost increases continue, and we are unable to control those costs or pass the increased costs on to customers, our profitability in our Chlor Alkali business would be negatively affected. Similarly, costs of commodity metals and other materials used in our Winchester business, such as copper and lead, can vary. If we experience significant increases in these costs and are unable to raise our prices to offset the higher costs, the profitability in our Winchester business would be negatively affected.Environmental Costs—We have ongoing environmental costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations.The nature of our operations and products, including the raw materials we handle, exposes us to the risk of liabilities or claims with respect to environmental matters. In addition, we are party to various governmental and private environmental actions associated with past manufacturing facilities and former waste disposal sites. We have incurred, and expect to incur, significant costs and capital expenditures in complying with environmental laws and regulations.The ultimate costs and timing of environmental liabilities are difficult to predict. Liabilities under environmental laws relating to contaminated sites can be imposed retroactively and on a joint and several basis. One liable party could be held responsible for all costs at a site, regardless of fault, percentage of contribution to the site or the legality of the original disposal. We could incur significant costs, including cleanup costs, natural resource damages, civil or criminal fines and sanctions and third-party lawsuits claiming, for example, personal injury and/or property damage, as a result of past or future violations of, or liabilities under, environmental or other laws.In addition, future events, such as changes to or more rigorous enforcement of environmental laws, could require us to make additional expenditures, modify or curtail our operations and/or install pollution control equipment.Accordingly, it is possible that some of the matters in which we are involved or may become involved may be resolved unfavorably to us, which could materially adversely affect our financial position, cash flows or results of operations. See “Environmental Matters” contained in Item 7—“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”Litigation and Claims—We are subject to litigation and other claims, which could cause us to incur significant expenses.We are a defendant in a number of pending legal proceedings relating to our present and former operations. These include product liability claims relating to ammunition and firearms and proceedings alleging injurious exposure of plaintiffs to various chemicals and other substances (including proceedings based on alleged exposures to asbestos). Frequently, the proceedings alleging injurious exposure involve claims made by numerous plaintiffs against many defendants. However, because of the inherent uncertainties of litigation, we are unable to predict the outcome of these proceedings and therefore cannot determine whether the financial impact, if any, will be material to our financial position, cash flows or results of operations.Information Security—A failure of our information technology systems, or an interruption in their operation, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.Our operations are dependent on our ability to protect our information systems, computer equipment and information databases from systems failures. We rely on our information technology systems generally to manage the day-to-day operation of our business, operate elements of our chlor alkali and ammunition manufacturing facilities, manage relationships with our customers, fulfill customer orders and maintain our financial and accounting records. Failures of our information technology systems could be caused by internal or external events, such as incursions by intruders or hackers, computer viruses, cyber-attacks, failures in hardware or software, or power or telecommunication fluctuations or failures. The failure of our information technology systems to perform as anticipated for any reason or any significant breach of security could disrupt our business and result in numerous adverse consequences, including reduced effectiveness and efficiency of operations, increased 13costs or loss of important information, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We have technology and information security processes and disaster recovery plans in place to mitigate our risk to these vulnerabilities. However, these measures may not be adequate to ensure that our operations will not be disrupted, should such an event occur.Production Hazards—Our facilities are subject to operating hazards, which may disrupt our business.We are dependent upon the continued safe operation of our production facilities. Our production facilities are subject to hazards associated with the manufacture, handling, storage and transportation of chemical materials and products and ammunition, including leaks and ruptures, explosions, fires, inclement weather and natural disasters, unexpected utility disruptions or outages, unscheduled downtime and environmental hazards. From time to time in the past, we have had incidents that have temporarily shut down or otherwise disrupted our manufacturing, causing production delays and resulting in liability for workplace injuries and fatalities. Some of our products involve the manufacture and/or handling of a variety of explosive and flammable materials. Use of these products by our customers could also result in liability if an explosion, fire, spill or other accident were to occur. We cannot assure you that we will not experience these types of incidents in the future or that these incidents will not result in production delays or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.Credit Facilities—Weak industry conditions could affect our ability to comply with the financial maintenance covenants in our senior revolving credit facility and certain tax-exempt bonds.Our senior revolving credit facility and our Gulf Opportunity Zone Act of 2005 (Go Zone) and American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Recovery Zone) tax-exempt bonds include certain financial maintenance covenants requiring us to not exceed a maximum leverage ratio and to maintain a minimum coverage ratio.Depending on the magnitude and duration of chlor alkali cyclical downturns, including deterioration in prices and volumes, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be in compliance with these ratios. If we failed to comply with either of these covenants in a future period and were not able to obtain waivers from the lenders thereunder, we would need to refinance our current senior revolving credit facility and the Go Zone and Recovery Zone bonds. However, there can be no assurance that such refinancing would be available to us on terms that would be acceptable to us or at all.Credit and Capital Market Conditions—Adverse conditions in the credit and capital markets may limit or prevent our ability to borrow or raise capital.While we believe we have facilities in place that should allow us to borrow funds as needed, adverse conditions in the credit and financial markets could prevent us from obtaining financing, if the need arises. Our ability to invest in our businesses and refinance or repay maturing debt obligations could require access to the credit and capital markets and sufficient bank credit lines to support cash requirements. If we are unable to access the credit and capital markets, we could experience a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations.Indebtedness—Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and limit our ability to grow and compete, which could prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our indebtedness.As of December 31, 2013, we had $691.0 million of indebtedness outstanding, including $7.3 million representing the unrecognized gain related to $173.7 million of interest rate swaps at December 31, 2013. This outstanding indebtedness does not include our $265.0 million senior revolving credit facility of which we had $233.4 million available as of December 31, 2013 because we had issued $31.6 million of letters of credit. As of December 31, 2013, our indebtedness represented 38.6% of our total capitalization. At December 31, 2013, $12.6 million of our indebtedness was due within one year.Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and limit our ability to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes, to accommodate growth by reducing funds otherwise available for other corporate purposes, and to compete, which in turn could prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our indebtedness. In addition, our indebtedness could make us more vulnerable to any continuing downturn in general economic conditions and reduce our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions. Despite our level of indebtedness, the terms of our senior revolving credit facility and our existing indentures permit us to borrow additional money. If we borrow more money, the risks related to our indebtedness could increase.14Pension Plans—The impact of declines in global equity and fixed income markets on asset values and any declines in interest rates used to value the liabilities in our pension plans may result in higher pension costs and the need to fund the pension plans in future years in material amounts.Under Accounting Standard Codification (ASC) 715 “Compensation–Retirement Benefits” (ASC 715), we recorded an after-tax charge of $7.7 million ($12.5 million pretax) to shareholders’ equity as of December 31, 2013 for our pension and other postretirement plans. This charge reflected unfavorable performance on plan assets during 2013, partially offset by a 60-basis point increase in the plans’ discount rate. In 2012, we recorded an after-tax charge of $101.9 million ($166.8 million pretax) to shareholders’ equity as of December 31, 2012 for our pension and other postretirement plans. This charge reflected a 100-basis point decrease in the plans’ discount rate, partially offset by the favorable performance on plan assets during 2012. In 2011, we recorded an after-tax charge of $29.0 million ($46.8 million pretax) to shareholders’ equity as of December 31, 2011 for our pension and other postretirement plans. This charge reflected a 40-basis point decrease in the plans’ discount rate and an unfavorable actuarial assumption change related to mortality tables, partially offset by the favorable performance on plan assets during 2011. The non-cash charges to shareholders’ equity do not affect our ability to borrow under our senior revolving credit facility.The determinations of pension expense and pension funding are based on a variety of rules and regulations. Changes in these rules and regulations could impact the calculation of pension plan liabilities and the valuation of pension plan assets. They may also result in higher pension costs, additional financial statement disclosure, and accelerate the need to fully fund the pension plan. During the third quarter of 2012, the “Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act” became law. The new law changes the mechanism for determining interest rates to be used for calculating minimum defined benefit pension plan funding requirements. Interest rates are determined using an average of rates for a 25-year period, which can have the effect of increasing the annual discount rate, reducing the defined benefit pension plan obligation and potentially reducing or eliminating the minimum annual funding requirement. The new law also increased premiums paid to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC). Based on our plan assumptions and estimates, we will not be required to make any cash contributions to the domestic qualified defined benefit pension plan at least through 2014 and under the new law may not be required to make any additional contributions for at least the next five years. We do have a small Canadian qualified defined benefit pension plan to which we made cash contributions of $1.0 million in 2013 and $0.9 million in both 2012 and 2011, and we anticipate approximately $1 million of cash contributions in 2014. At December 31, 2013, the projected benefit obligation of $1,916.6 million exceeded the market value of assets in our qualified defined benefit pension plans by $55.9 million, as calculated under ASC 715.In addition, the impact of declines in global equity and fixed income markets on asset values may result in higher pension costs and may increase and accelerate the need to fund the pension plans in future years. For example, holding all other assumptions constant, a 100-basis point decrease or increase in the assumed long-term rate of return on plan assets would have decreased or increased, respectively, the 2013 defined benefit pension plans income by approximately $17.1 million.Holding all other assumptions constant, a 50-basis point decrease in the discount rate used to calculate pension income for 2013 and the projected benefit obligation as of December 31, 2013 would have decreased pension income by $0.4 million and increased the projected benefit obligation by $102.0 million. A 50-basis point increase in the discount rate used to calculate pension income for 2013 and the projected benefit obligation as of December 31, 2013 would have increased pension income by $0.6 million and decreased the projected benefit obligation by $95.0 million.Labor Matters—We cannot assure you that we can conclude future labor contracts or any other labor agreements without work stoppages. Various labor unions represent a majority of our hourly-paid employees for collective bargaining purposes. The following labor contracts are scheduled to expire in 2014:Location Number of Employees Expiration DateTacoma (Chlor Alkali) 9 December 2014While we believe our relations with our employees and their various representatives are generally satisfactory, we cannot assure that we can conclude these labor contracts or any other labor agreements without work stoppages and cannot assure that any work stoppages will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.Debt Service—We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service our debt, which may require us to refinance our indebtedness or default on our scheduled debt payments.15Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to make scheduled payments on our debt depends on a range of economic, competitive and business factors, many of which are outside our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations. If we are unable to meet our expenses and debt obligations, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, sell assets or raise equity. We cannot assure you that we would be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, sell assets or raise equity on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could cause us to default on our obligations and impair our liquidity. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our obligations on commercially reasonable terms, would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as on our ability to satisfy our debt obligations. See “Liquidity and Other Financing Arrangements” contained in Item 7—“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Item 7A—“Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.”Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNot applicable.