ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS As noted in the introductory section titled, “Uncertainties Affecting Forward-Looking Statements” above, our business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks. These risks should be taken into account in evaluating any investment decision involving Armstrong. It is not possible to predict or identify all factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. The following discussion is a summary of what we believe to be our most significant risk factors. These and other factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements made in this report. We try to reduce both the likelihood that these risks will affect our businesses and their potential impact. But, no matter how accurate our foresight, how well we evaluate risks, and how effective we are at mitigating them, it is still possible that one of these problems or some other issue could have serious consequences for us, up to and including a materially adverse effect. See related discussions in this document and our other SEC filings for more details and subsequent disclosures. Our business is dependent on construction activity. Downturns in construction activity and global economic conditions, such as weak consumer confidence and weak credit markets, adversely affect our business and our profitability. Our businesses have greater sales opportunities when construction activity is strong and, conversely, have fewer opportunities when such activity declines. Construction activity tends to increase when economies are strong, interest rates are favorable, government spending is strong, and consumers are confident. When the economy is weak and access to credit is limited, customers, distributors and suppliers are at heightened risk of defaulting on their obligations. Since most of our sales are in the U.S., its economy is the most important for our business, but conditions in Europe, Canada and Asia also are significant. A prolonged economic downturn would exacerbate the adverse effect on our business and profitability. 13 Table of Contents We require a significant amount of liquidity to fund our operations. Our liquidity needs vary throughout the year. There are no significant debt maturities until 2011 and 2013 under our existing senior credit facility. We believe that cash on hand and generated from operations will be adequate to address our foreseeable liquidity needs. If future operating performance declines significantly, we cannot assure that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to fund our needs or to remain in compliance with our debt covenants. In addition, we received a very substantial federal income tax refund in 2007. The tax year in question is still being audited by the IRS. If we were required to repay a substantial portion of the refund, our liquidity position would be adversely affected. Our markets are highly competitive. Competition can reduce demand for our products or cause us to lower prices. Failure to compete effectively by meeting consumer preferences and maintaining market share would adversely affect our results. Our customers consider our products’ performance, product styling, customer service and price when deciding whether to purchase our products. Shifting consumer preference in our highly competitive markets, e.g. from residential vinyl products to other flooring products, styling preferences or inability to offer new competitive performance features could hurt our sales. For certain products, there is excess industry capacity in several geographic markets, which tends to increase price competition, as does competition from overseas competitors with lower cost structures. If the availability of raw materials and energy decreases, or the costs increase, and we are unable to pass along increased costs, our operating results could be adversely affected. The cost and availability of raw materials, packaging materials, energy and sourced products are critical to our operations. For example, we use substantial quantities of natural gas, petroleum-based raw materials, hardwood lumber and mineral fiber in our manufacturing operations. The cost of some items has been volatile in recent years and availability has sometimes been tight. We source some materials from a limited number of suppliers, which, among other things, increases the risk of unavailability. Limited availability could cause us to reformulate products or to limit our production. The impact of increased costs is greatest where our ability to pass along increased costs through price increases on our products is limited, whether due to competitive pressures or other factors. Reduction in sales to key customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profits. Some of our businesses are dependent on a few key customers such as The Home Depot, Inc. and Lowe’s Companies, Inc. The loss of sales to one of these major customers, or changes in our business relationship with them, could hurt both our revenues and profits. Changes in the political, regulatory and business environments of our international markets, including changes in trade regulations and currency exchange fluctuations, could have an adverse effect on our business. A significant portion of our products move in international trade, particularly among the U.S., Canada, Europe and Asia. Also, approximately 30% of our annual revenues are from operations outside the U.S. Our international trade is subject to currency exchange fluctuations, trade regulations, import duties, logistics costs and delays and other related risks. They are also subject to variable tax rates, credit risks in emerging markets, political risks, uncertain legal systems, restrictions on repatriating profits to the U.S., and loss of sales to local competitors following currency devaluations in countries where we import products for sale. 14 Table of Contents Capital investments and restructuring actions may not achieve expected savings in our operating costs. We look for ways to make our operations more efficient and effective. We reduce, move and expand our plants and operations as needed. Each action generally involves substantial planning and capital investment. We can err in planning and executing our actions, which could hurt our customer service and cause unplanned costs. Labor disputes or work stoppages could hurt production and reduce sales and profits. Most of our manufacturing employees are represented by unions and are covered by collective bargaining or similar agreements that must be periodically renegotiated. Although we anticipate that we will reach new contracts as current ones expire, our negotiations may result in a significant increase in our costs. Failure to reach new contracts could lead to work stoppages, which could hurt production, revenues, profits and customer relations. Adverse judgments in regulatory actions, product claims and other litigation could be costly. Insurance coverage may not be available or adequate in all circumstances. While we strive to ensure that our products comply with applicable government regulatory standards and internal requirements, and that our products perform effectively and safely, customers from time to time could claim that our products do not meet contractual requirements, and users could be harmed by use or misuse of our products. This could give rise to breach of contract, warranty or recall claims, or claims for negligence, product liability, strict liability, personal injury or property damage. The building materials industry has been subject to claims relating to silicates, mold, PVC, formaldehyde, toxic fumes, fire-retardant properties and other issues, as well as for incidents of catastrophic loss, such as building fires. Product liability insurance coverage may not be available or adequate in all circumstances. In addition, claims may arise related to patent infringement, environmental liabilities, distributor terminations, commercial contracts, antitrust or competition law, employment law and employee benefits issues, and other regulatory matters. While we have in place processes and policies to mitigate these risks and to investigate and address such claims as they arise, we cannot predict the costs to defend or resolve such claims. Our principal shareholder could significantly influence our business and our affairs. The Armstrong World Industries, Inc. Asbestos Personal Injury Settlement Trust, formed in 2006 as part of AWI’s emergence from bankruptcy, holds approximately 65% of outstanding shares. Such a large ownership could result in below average equity market liquidity and affect matters which require approval by our shareholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 15 Table of Contents 