Risk Factors. Any negative change in the Company's relationship with its major customers could have significant negative effects on revenues and profits. The Company's financial success is directly related to the willingness of its customers to continue to purchase its products. Failure to fill customers' orders in a timely manner could harm the Company's relationships with its customers. Furthermore, if any of the Company's major customers experience a significant downturn in its business, or fails to remain committed to the Company's products or brands, then these customers may reduce or discontinue purchases from the Company, which could have an adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company has four customers that accounted for 54.3% of its total annual sales in 2007 - any negative change in the Company's relationship with any one of them or the orders placed by any one of them could significantly affect the Company's revenues and profits. Fuel shortages, or higher prices for fuel, could have a negative effect on sales. Gasoline or diesel fuel is required for the operation of motorhomes, fire trucks, aerial ladders and ambulances. Particularly in view of increased international tensions and increased global demand for oil, there can be no assurance that the supply of these petroleum products will continue uninterrupted, that rationing will not be imposed or that the price of or tax on these petroleum products will not significantly increase in the future. Increases in gasoline and diesel prices and speculation about potential fuel shortages have had an unfavorable effect on consumer demand for motorhomes from time to time in the past, which then had a material adverse effect on sales volume, and may do so in the future. Increases in the price of oil also can result in significant increases in the price of many of the components in our products, which may have a negative impact on margins or sales volumes. When we introduce new products we may incur expenses that we did not anticipate, such as recall expenses, resulting in reduced earnings. The introduction of new products is critical to our future success. We have additional costs when we introduce new products, such as initial labor or purchasing inefficiencies, but we may also incur unexpected expenses. For example, we may experience unexpected engineering or design flaws that will force a recall of a new product. In addition, we may make business decisions that include offering incentives to stimulate the sales of products not adequately accepted by the market, or to stimulate sales of older or obsolete products. The costs resulting from these types of problems could be substantial and have a significant adverse effect on our earnings. If there is a rise in the frequency and size of product liability, warranty and other claims against us, including wrongful death claims, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be harmed. We are frequently subject, in the ordinary course of business, to litigation involving product liability and other claims, including wrongful death claims, related to personal injury and warranties. We partially self-insure our product liability claims and purchase excess product liability insurance in the commercial insurance market. We cannot be certain that our insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover all future claims against us. Any increase in the frequency and size of these claims, as compared to our experience in prior years, may cause the premiums that we are required to pay for such insurance to rise significantly. It may also increase the amounts we pay in punitive damages, which may not be covered by our insurance. Increased costs, including costs of component parts and labor costs, potentially impacted by changes in labor rates and practices, could reduce our operating income. Our results of operations may be significantly affected by the availability and pricing of manufacturing components and labor, as well as changes in labor rates and practices. Increases in raw materials used in our products could affect the cost of our supply materials and components, as the rising steel and aluminum prices have impacted the cost of certain of the Company's manufacturing 8 components. Although we attempt to mitigate the effect of any escalation in components and labor costs by negotiating with current or new suppliers and by increasing productivity or, where necessary, by increasing the sales prices of our products, we cannot be certain that we will be able to do so without it having an adverse impact on the competitiveness of our products and, therefore, our sales volume. If we cannot successfully offset increases in our manufacturing costs, this could have a material adverse impact on our margins, operating income and cash flows. Our profit margins may decrease if prices of purchased component parts or labor rates increase and we are unable to pass on those increases to our customers. Even if we were able to offset higher manufacturing costs by increasing the sales prices of our products, the realization of any such increases often lags behind the rise in manufacturing costs, especially in our operations, due in part to our commitment to give our customers and dealers price protection with respect to previously placed customer orders. Our sales of specialty chassis for military vehicles depend on U.S. government contracts awarded to our customers. Multi-year U.S. government contracts generally are not fully funded at inception and are subject to termination. Currently, we derive a portion of our revenue, 36.1% in 2007, from the sale of specialty chassis for military vehicles. Our customers for these specialty chassis have prime contracts with military agencies of the U.S. government. There are unique risks associated with U.S. government contracts, and by extension, subcontracts. Changes in the congressional appropriations process, program funding levels, and unforeseen world events can interrupt, delay, or terminate the funding for any program or contract. Other risks particular to government contracts and subcontracts include: • U.S. government contracts generally permit the government to terminate a contract, in whole or in part, for convenience. If a contract is terminated the government will pay the prime and subcontractors for work performed and related termination costs. • The government may also terminate a contract for default in the event of a breach by the contractor. If a contract is terminated for default, the government in most cases pays for only the work it has accepted. The loss of anticipated funding or the termination of multiple or large programs could have an adverse effect on our future sales and earnings. • In general, future sales under multiyear contracts are conditioned on the continuing availability of congressional appropriations. Congress typically appropriates funds on a fiscal-year basis, even though contract performance may extend over many years. Changes in appropriations in subsequent years may impact the funding available for these programs. Delays or changes in funding can impact the timing of available funds or lead to changes in program content. • Contracts and subcontracts for U.S. government programs are subject to various procurement laws and regulations. The government may suspend us from receiving new contracts pending resolution of alleged violations of these laws or regulations. • U.S. defense spending has historically been cyclical. Rising budget deficits, increased military expenditures, and increasing costs for domestic programs could ultimately impact government spending on military vehicles. Changes in military strategies, tactics, and conditions on the ground in Iraq and Afghanistan may lead to the reduction, delay, or termination of the vehicle programs that we support. Reductions in our existing vehicle programs, unless offset by other programs and opportunities, could adversely affect our ability to sustain and grow our future sales and earnings. We depend on a small group of suppliers for some of our components, and the loss of any of these suppliers could affect our ability to obtain components at competitive prices, which would decrease our sales or earnings. Most chassis, fire truck, aerial ladder and ambulance commodity components are readily available from a variety of sources. However, a few proprietary or specialty components are produced by a small group of quality suppliers that have the capacity to support our requirements. Changes in our relationships with these suppliers, shortages, production delays or work stoppages by the employees of such suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our ability to timely manufacture our products and secure sales. If we cannot obtain an adequate supply of components, this could result in a decrease in our sales and earnings. Amendments of the regulations governing our businesses could have a material impact on our operations. Our manufactured products are subject to extensive federal and state regulations. Amendments to any of these regulations and the implementation of new regulations could significantly increase the costs of manufacturing, purchasing, operating or selling our products and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 9 Our failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in fines, potential civil and criminal liability, suspension of sales or production, or cessation of operations. In addition, a major product recall could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Certain U.S. tax laws currently afford favorable tax treatment for the purchase and sale of recreational vehicles that are used as the equivalent of second homes. These laws and regulations have historically been amended frequently, and it is likely that further amendments and additional regulations will be applicable to us and our products in the future. Amendments to these laws and regulations and the implementation of new regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our operations are subject to a variety of federal and state environmental regulations relating to noise pollution and the use, generation, storage, treatment, emission and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes. Although we believe that we are currently in material compliance with applicable environmental regulations, our failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in fines, potential civil and criminal liability, suspension of production or operations, alterations to the manufacturing process, costly cleanup or capital expenditures. For example, laws mandating greater fuel efficiency and the heightened emission standards that took effect in 2007 have increased our research and development costs and the cost of components necessary for production. Additionally, this event could lead to the temporary unavailability of engines. The next change to emission standards that impacts the Company's products will occur in 2010. Failure to maintain effective internal control in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have an adverse effect on our business and stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires us to evaluate annually the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in our annual report on Form 10-K. Based on that evaluation our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2007. Section 404 also requires our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, and report on, the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal control, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we cannot assure you that we will be able to conclude in the future that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. If we fail to maintain a system of effective internal control, it could have an adverse effe ct on our business and stock price. The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, has been audited by BDO Seidman LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in its attestation report, which is included in Item 8. Businesses are cyclical and this can lead to fluctuations in operating results. The industries in which we operate are highly cyclical and there can be substantial fluctuations in our manufacturing shipments and operating results, and the results for any prior period may not be indicative of results for any future period. Companies within these industries are subject to volatility in operating results due to external factors such as economic, demographic and political changes. Factors affecting the manufacture of chassis, fire trucks, aerial ladders and ambulances include: • interest rates and the availability of financing; • commodity prices; • unemployment trends; • international tensions and hostilities; • general economic conditions; • strength of the U.S. dollar compared to foreign currencies; • overall consumer confidence and the level of discretionary consumer spending; • dealers' and manufacturers' inventory levels; and • fuel availability and prices. General economic conditions. The effect of new or amended laws or regulations on the Company, our industry or the economy as a whole could have a detrimental effect on our operations. Such laws and regulations could cause an industry-wide market decline or affect the Company due to our inability to compete with other companies that are unaffected by these laws, regulations or policies. Concerns regarding acts of terrorism, the war in Iraq and subsequent events have created significant global economic and political uncertainties that may have material and adverse effects on consumer demand (particularly the specialty and motorhome markets), shipping and transportation and the availability of manufacturing components. 10 Changes in economic conditions, including changes in interest rates, strength of the United States dollar, financial market performance and industry-specific factors could impact the economy in general, resulting in a downward trend that impacts not only our business, but all companies with which we compete; or, the changes could impact only those parts of the economy upon which we rely in a unique fashion, including, for example, the introduction of trade barriers that impact our attempts to expand in North America. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 