Risk Factors. The Company’s financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows are subject to various risks, many of which are not exclusively within the Company’s control that may cause actual performance to differ materially from historical or projected future performance. The risks described below are the risks known to us that we believe could materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. However, these risks may not be the only risks we face. Our business could also be affected by additional factors that are not presently known to us, factors we currently consider to be immaterial to our operations, or factors that emerge as new risks in the future. We depend on U.S. government contracts, which are subject to additional and often unique risks. The Company is subject to risks associated with U.S. governmental contracts. In 2010, 16% of our revenues were derived from U.S. government contracts and subcontracts for military drive train integration, vehicle final assembly and service parts. In addition to normal business risks, our contracts and subcontracts with the U.S. government are subject to unique risks, some of which are beyond our control. Our U.S. government contracts and subcontracts are narrowly focused on a limited number of defense programs. Our business with the federal government is focused on the production, refurbishment and logistics support of chassis and other parts and assemblies for specialty military vehicles that are resistant to mine and improvised explosive device damage. Changes in military strategies, tactics and conditions on the ground in Iraq and Afghanistan may lead to a reduction, delay or termination of these vehicle programs that we support. Substantial reductions in our existing programs, unless offset by other programs or opportunities, would adversely affect our sales and earnings. The funding of U.S. government programs is subject to congressional appropriations. Many of the U.S. government programs in which we participate may extend for several years; however, these programs are normally funded annually. Long-term government contracts and related orders are subject to cancellation if appropriations for subsequent performance periods are not made. The termination of funding for a U.S. government program would result in a loss of anticipated future revenues attributable to that program, which could have a materially adverse impact on our sales and earnings. The U.S. government may modify, curtail or terminate our contracts. The U.S. government may modify, curtail or terminate its contracts and subcontracts without prior notice, at its convenience, upon payment for work done and commitments made at the time of termination. Modification, curtailment or termination of any one of our major programs or contracts could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our business is subject to U.S. government inquiries and investigations. We are subject, from time to time, to certain U.S. government inquiries and investigations of our business practices due to our participation in government contracts and subcontracts. Such inquiries or investigations could result in suspension or debarment, for cause, from U.S. government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time, as well as claims for fines, penalties, and damages (including treble damages in certain circumstances), which would potentially result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 11 Our U.S. government business is also subject to specific procurement regulations and other requirements. These requirements, although customary in U.S. government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs. These costs might increase in the future, reducing our margins, which could have a negative effect on our financial condition. Failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could lead to suspension or debarment, for cause, from U.S. government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time, and/or criminal or civil fines and penalties, and could have a negative effect on our reputation and ability to secure future U.S. government contracts and subcontracts. In addition, although we hav e taken measures to prevent and detect employee misconduct related to government procurement regulations, these measures may not effectively deter such activity. Any government action related to violations of procurement laws and regulations may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, future operating results, or cash flows. We depend on local and municipal governments for a substantial portion of our business. Local and municipal governments are the end customer for a substantial proportion of our products, including custom fire truck chassis, fire truck bodies, aerial ladders and other fire truck related apparatus. These markets are cyclical later in an economic downturn and are heavily impacted by municipal capital spending budgets, which have been negatively impacted by weakened municipal tax revenues. These budgetary constraints may have a significant adverse effect on the overall fire and emergency vehicle market and/or cause a shift in the fire and emergency vehicle market away from highly customized products toward commercially produced vehicles. These changes could result in weakened demand for our products, which may have an adverse impact on our net sales, financial condition, pro fitability and/or cash flows. The integration of businesses or assets we have acquired or may acquire in the future involves challenges that could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition. As part of our growth strategy, we have pursued and expect we will continue to selectively pursue, acquisitions of businesses or assets in order to diversify, expand our capabilities, enter new markets, or increase our market share. Integrating any newly acquired business or assets can be expensive and can require a great deal of management time and other resources. If we are unable to successfully integrate the newly acquired businesses with our existing business, we may not realize the synergies we expect from the acquisition, and our business and results of operations would suffer from our current expectations. Disruptions within our dealer network could adversely affect our business. We rely, to a limited extent, on a network of independent dealers to market, deliver, provide training for, and service, our products to and for customers. Our business is influenced by our ability to initiate and manage new and existing relationships with dealers. From time to time, an individual dealer or the Company may choose to terminate the relationship, or the dealership could face financial difficulty leading to failure or difficulty in transitioning to new ownership. In addition, our competitors could engage in a strategy to attempt to acquire or convert a number of our dealers to carry their products. We do not believe our business is dependent on any single dealer, the loss of which would have a sustained material adverse effect upon our business. 12 However, temporary disruption of dealer coverage within a specific local market could temporarily have an adverse impact on our business within the affected market. The loss or termination of a significant number of dealers could cause difficulties in marketing and distributing our products and have an adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. In the event that a dealer in a strategic market experiences financial difficulty, we may choose to provide financial support, such as extending credit, to a dealership, reducing the risk of disruption, but increasing our financial exposure. We may not be able to successfully implement and manage our growth strategy. Our growth strategy includes expanding existing market share through product innovation, continued expansion into industrial and global markets, and merger or acquisition related activities. We believe our future success depends in part on our research and development and engineering efforts, our ability to manufacture or source the products and customer acceptance of our products. As it relates to new markets, our success also depends on our ability to create and implement local supply chain, sales and distribution strategies to reach these markets. The potential inability to successfully implement and manage our growth strategy could adversely affect our business and our results of operations. The successful implementation of our growth strategy will depend, in part, on our ability to integrate operations with acquired companies. Our efforts to grow our business in emerging markets are subject to all of these risks plus additional, unique risks. In certain markets, the legal and political environment can be unstable and uncertain which could make it difficult for us to compete successfully and could expose us to liabilities. We also make investments in new business development initiatives which, like many startups, could have a relatively high failure rate. We limit our investments in these initiatives and establish governance procedures to contain the associated risks, but losses could result and may be material. Our growth strategy also may involve acquisitions, joint venture alliances and additional arrangements of distribution. We may not be able to enter into acquisitions or joint venture arrangements on acceptable terms, and we may not successfully integrate these activities into our operations. We also may not be successful in implementing new distribution channels, and changes could create discord in our existing channels of distribution. When we introduce new products, we may incur expenses that we did not anticipate, such as recall expenses, resulting in reduced earnings. The introduction of new products is critical to our future success. We have additional costs when we introduce new products, such as initial labor or purchasing inefficiencies, but we may also incur unexpected expenses. For example, we may experience unexpected engineering or design issues that will force a recall of a new product. In addition, we may make business decisions that include offering incentives to stimulate the sales of products not adequately accepted by the market, or to stimulate sales of older or less marketable products. The costs resulting from these types of problems could be substantial and have a significant adverse effect on our earnings. Any negative change in the Company’s relationship with its major customers could have significant adverse effects on revenues and profits. The Company’s financial success is directly related to the willingness of its customers to continue to purchase its products. Failure to fill customers’ orders in a timely manner or on the terms and conditions they may impose could harm the Company’s relationships with its customers. The importance of maintaining excellent relationships with our major customers may also give these customers leverage in our negotiations with them, including pricing and other supply terms, as well as post-sale disputes. This leverage may lead to increased costs to us or decreased margins. Furthermore, if any of the Company’s major customers experience a significant downturn in its business, or fails to remain committed to the Company’s products or brands, then these customers may redu ce or discontinue purchases from the Company, which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company has three customers that accounted for 32% of its total annual sales in 2010 - any negative change in the Company’s relationship with any one of them, or the orders placed by any one of them could significantly affect the Company’s revenues and profits. 13 We depend on a small group of suppliers for some of our components, and the loss of any of these suppliers could affect our ability to obtain components at competitive prices, which would decrease our sales or earnings. Most chassis, fire truck, aerial ladder and specialty vehicle commodity components are readily available from a variety of sources. However, a few proprietary or specialty components are produced by a small group of quality suppliers that have the capacity to support our requirements. In addition, Utilimaster generally does not purchase vehicle chassis for its inventory. Utilimaster accepts shipments of vehicle chassis owned by dealers or end-users for the purpose of installing and/or manufacturing its specialized truck bodies on such chassis. There are five primary sources for commercial chassis and Utilimaster has established relationships with all major chassis manufacturers. Changes in our relationships with these suppliers, shortages, production delays or work stoppages by the employees of such suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our ability to timely manufacture our products and secure sales. If we cannot obtain an adequate supply of components or commercial chassis, this could result in a decrease in our sales and earnings. Changes to laws and regulations governing our business could have a material impact on our operations. Our manufactured products and the industries in which we operate are subject to extensive federal and state regulations. Changes to any of these regulations or the implementation of new regulations could significantly increase the costs of manufacturing, purchasing, operating or selling our products and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in fines, potential civil and criminal liability, suspension of sales or production, or cessation of operations. In addition, a major product recall could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Certain U.S. tax laws currently afford favorable tax treatment for the purchase and sale of recreational vehicles that are used as the equivalent of second homes. These laws and regulations have historically been amended frequently, and it is likely that further amendments and additional regulations will be applicable to us and our products in the future. Amendments to these laws and regulations and the implementation of new regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our operations are subject to a variety of federal and state environmental regulations relating to noise pollution and the use, generation, storage, treatment, emission and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes. Although we believe that we are currently in material compliance with applicable environmental regulations, our failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in fines, potential civil and criminal liability, suspension of production or operations, alterations to the manufacturing process, costly cleanup or capital expenditures. For example, laws mandating greater fuel efficiency and the heightened emission standards that took effect in 2007 and 2010 have increased our research and development costs and the cost of components necessary for production. Additionally, such regulations cou ld lead to the temporary unavailability of engines. 14 Our businesses are cyclical and this can lead to fluctuations in our operating results. The industries in which we operate are highly cyclical and there can be substantial fluctuations in our manufacturing shipments and operating results, and the results for any prior period may not be indicative of results for any future period. Companies within these industries are subject to volatility in operating results due to external factors such as economic, demographic and political changes. Factors affecting the manufacture of chassis, fire trucks, aerial ladders, specialty vehicles, service and delivery vehicles and other of our products include but are not limited to: · Interest rates and the availability of financing; · Commodity prices; · Unemployment trends; · International tensions and hostilities; · General economic conditions; · Federal, state and municipal budgets; · Strength of the U.S. dollar compared to foreign currencies; · Overall consumer confidence and the level of discretionary consumer spending; · Dealers’ and manufacturers’ inventory levels; and · Fuel availability and prices. Economic, legal and other factors could impact our customers’ ability to pay accounts receivable balances due from them. In the ordinary course of business, customers are granted terms related to the sale of goods and services delivered to them. These terms typically include a period of time between when the goods and services are tendered for delivery to the customer and when the customer needs to pay for these goods and services. The amounts due under these payment terms are listed as accounts receivable on our balance sheet. Prior to collection of these accounts receivable, our customers could encounter drops in sales, large legal settlements or other expenses, or other factors which could impact their ability to continue as a going concern and which could affect the collectability of these amounts. Writing off uncollectible accounts receivable could have a material adverse effect on our e arnings and cash flow as the Company has major customers with material accounts receivable balances at any given time. Global political conditions could have a negative effect on our business. Concerns regarding acts of terrorism, the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and subsequent events have created significant global economic and political uncertainties that may have material and adverse effects on consumer demand (particularly the specialty and motor home markets), shipping and transportation and the availability of manufacturing components. Fuel shortages, or higher prices for fuel, could have a negative effect on sales. Gasoline or diesel fuel is required for the operation of motor homes, fire trucks, service and delivery vehicles and the specialty vehicles we manufacture. Particularly in view of increased international tensions and increased global demand for oil, there can be no assurance that the supply of these petroleum products will continue uninterrupted, that rationing will not be imposed or that the price of or tax on these petroleum products will not significantly increase in the future. Increases in gasoline and diesel prices and speculation about potential fuel shortages have had an unfavorable effect on consumer demand for motor homes from time to time in the past and may continue to do so in the future. This, in turn, has a material adverse effect on our sales volume. Increases in the price of oil also can result in significant increases in the price of many of the components in our products, which may have an adverse impact on margins or sales volumes. 15 Our operating results may fluctuate significantly on a quarter-to-quarter basis. The Company’s quarterly operating results depend on a variety of factors including, but not limited to, the timing and volume of additional military orders that are dependent on U.S. government contracts awarded to our customers. Accordingly, the Company may be subject to significant and unanticipated quarter-to-quarter fluctuations. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile, which may result in losses to our shareholders. The market price of the Company’s common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to, among other things, quarterly fluctuations in operating results, the ability to obtain additional U.S. government contracts or subcontracts, changes in congressional appropriations program funding levels, a failure to meet published estimates of or changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts, sales of common stock by existing holders, loss of key personnel, market conditions in our industries, shortages of key product inventory components and general economic conditions. Credit market developments may reduce availability under our credit agreement. Due to the current volatile state of the credit markets, there is risk that lenders, even those with strong balance sheets and sound lending practices, could fail or refuse to honor their legal commitments and obligations under existing credit commitments. If our lenders fail to honor their legal commitments under our credit facilities, it could be difficult in the current environment to replace our credit facilities on similar terms. Although we believe that our operating cash flow, access to capital markets and existing credit facilities will give us the ability to satisfy our liquidity needs for at least the next 12 months, the failure of any of the lenders under our credit facilities may impact our ability to finance our operating or investing activities. If there is a rise in the frequency and size of product liability, warranty and other claims against us, including wrongful death claims, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be harmed. We are frequently subject, in the ordinary course of business, to litigation involving product liability and other claims, including wrongful death claims, related to personal injury and warranties. We partially self-insure our product liability claims and purchase excess product liability insurance in the commercial insurance market. We cannot be certain that our insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover all future claims against us. Any increase in the frequency and size of these claims, as compared to our experience in prior years, may cause the premiums that we are required to pay for such insurance to rise significantly. It may also increase the amounts we pay in punitive damages, which may not be covered by our insurance. 16 Increased costs, including costs of raw materials, component parts and labor costs, potentially impacted by changes in labor rates and practices, could reduce our operating income. Our results of operations may be significantly affected by the availability and pricing of manufacturing components and labor, as well as changes in labor rates and practices. Increases in raw materials used in our products could affect the cost of our supply materials and components, as the rising steel and aluminum prices have impacted the cost of certain of the Company’s manufacturing components. Although we attempt to mitigate the effect of any escalation in components and labor costs by negotiating with current or new suppliers and by increasing productivity or, where necessary, by increasing the sales prices of our products, we cannot be certain that we will be able to do so without it having an adverse impact on the competitiveness of our products and, therefore, our sales volume. If we cannot successful ly offset increases in our manufacturing costs, this could have a material adverse impact on our margins, operating income and cash flows. Our profit margins may decrease if prices of purchased component parts or labor rates increase and we are unable to pass on those increases to our customers. Even if we were able to offset higher manufacturing costs by increasing the sales prices of our products, the realization of any such increases often lags behind the rise in manufacturing costs, especially in our operations, due in part to our commitment to give our customers and dealers price protection with respect to previously placed customer orders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 17 