Risk Factors. The recent global economic and financial market crisis has had and may continue to have a negative effect on our business and operations. The recent global economic and financial market crisis has caused, among other things, a general tightening in the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy, lower consumer and business spending, and lower consumer net worth, all of which has had and may continue to have a negative effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Many of our customers and suppliers have been severely affected by the current economic turmoil. Current or potential customers and suppliers may no longer be in business, may be unable to fund purchases or determine to reduce purchases, all of which has and could continue to lead to reduced demand for our products, reduced gross margins, and increased customer payment delays or defaults. Further, suppliers may not be able to supply us with needed raw materials on a timely basis, may increase prices or go out of business, which could result in our inability to meet consumer demand or affect our gro ss margins. We are also limited in our ability to reduce costs to offset the results of a prolonged or severe economic downturn given certain fixed costs associated with our operations, difficulties if we overstrain our resources, and our long-term business approach that necessitates we remain in position to respond when market conditions improve. The timing and nature of any recovery in the credit and financial markets remains uncertain, and there can be no assurance that market conditions will improve in the near future or that our results will not continue to be materially and adversely affected. Such conditions make it very difficult to forecast operating results. The foregoing conditions may also impact the valuation of certain long-lived or intangible assets that are subject to impairment testing, potentially resulting in non-cash impairment charges which may be material to our financial condition or results of operations. See "Credit Market Developments" below for a related risk factor to the Company's liquidity resulting from the current crisis. 9 Capital markets are currently experiencing a period of dislocation and instability, which has had and could continue to have a negative impact on the availability and cost of capital. The general disruption in the U.S. capital markets has impacted the broader financial and credit markets and reduced the availability of debt and equity capital for the market as a whole. These conditions could persist for a prolonged period of time or worsen in the future. Our ability to access the capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to access those markets, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. The resulting lack of available credit, lack of confidence in the financial sector, increased volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to obtain and manage our liquidity. In addition, the cost of debt financing and the proceeds of equity financing may be materially adversely impacted by these market conditions. The Company's customers, dealers and suppliers may be adversely affected by the financial and credit liquidity crisis. Although the Company reviews the credit worthiness of its customers and suppliers, it cannot fully predict the extent to which they may be negatively affected or to what extent their operations will be disrupted. We depend heavily on U.S. government contracts, which are subject to risks. In addition to the risk associated with the economic and global crisis, the Company is subject to risks affiliated with U.S. governmental contracts. In 2008, 66.0% of our revenues were derived from U.S. government contracts and subcontracts for military drive train integration, vehicle final assembly and service parts. In addition to normal business risks, our contracts and subcontracts with the U.S. government are subject to unique risks, some of which are beyond our control. Our U.S. government contracts and subcontracts are narrowly focused on a limited number of defense programs. Our business with the federal government is focused on the production, refurbishment and logistics support of chassis and other parts and assemblies for specialty military vehicles that are resistant to mine and improvised explosive device damage. Changes in military strategies, tactics and conditions on the ground in Iraq and Afghanistan may lead to a reduction, delay or termination of these vehicle programs that we support. Substantial reductions in our existing programs, unless offset by other programs or opportunities, would adversely affect our sales and earnings. The funding of U.S. government programs is subject to congressional appropriations. Many of the U.S. government programs in which we participate may extend for several years; however, these programs are normally funded annually. Long-term government contracts and related orders are subject to cancellation if appropriations for subsequent performance periods are not made. The termination of funding for a U.S. government program would result in a loss of anticipated future revenues attributable to that program, which could have a materially negative impact on our operations. The U.S. government may modify, curtail or terminate our contracts. The U.S. government may modify, curtail or terminate its contracts and subcontracts without prior notice, at its convenience, upon payment for work done and commitments made at the time of termination. Modification, curtailment or termination of our major programs or contracts could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our business is subject to U.S. government inquiries and investigations. We are subject, from time to time, to certain U.S. government inquiries and investigations of our business practices due to our participation in government contracts and subcontracts. Such inquiries or investigations could result in suspension or debarment, for cause, from U.S. government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time, as well as claims for fines, penalties, and damages (including treble damages in certain circumstances), which would potentially result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our U.S. government business is also subject to specific procurement regulations and other requirements. These requirements, although customary in U.S. government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs. These costs might increase in the future, reducing our margins, which could have a negative effect on our financial 10 condition. Failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could lead to suspension or debarment, for cause, from U.S. government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time and could have a negative effect on our reputation and ability to secure future U.S. government contracts and subcontracts. In addition, although we have taken measures to prevent and detect employee misconduct related to government procurement regulations, these measures may not effectively deter such activity. Any government action related to violations of procurement laws and regulations may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, future operating results, or cash flows. Our businesses are cyclical and this can lead to fluctuations in our operating results. The industries in which we operate are highly cyclical and there can be substantial fluctuations in our manufacturing shipments and operating results, and the results for any prior period may not be indicative of results for any future period. Companies within these industries are subject to volatility in operating results due to external factors such as economic, demographic and political changes. Factors affecting the manufacture of chassis, fire trucks, aerial ladders and ambulances include but are not limited to: • Interest rates and the availability of financing; • Commodity prices; • Unemployment trends; • International tensions and hostilities; • General economic conditions; • Federal, state and municipal budgets • Strength of the U.S. dollar compared to foreign currencies; • Overall consumer confidence and the level of discretionary consumer spending; • Dealers' and manufacturers' inventory levels; and • Fuel availability and prices. General economic and political conditions. The effect of new or amended laws or regulations on the Company, our industry or the economy as a whole could have a detrimental effect on our operations. Such laws and regulations could cause an industry-wide market decline or affect the Company due to our inability to compete with other companies that are unaffected by these laws, regulations or policies. Concerns regarding acts of terrorism, the war in Iraq, the war in Afghanistan and subsequent events have created significant global economic and political uncertainties that may have material and adverse effects on consumer demand (particularly the specialty and motor home markets), shipping and transportation and the availability of manufacturing components. Changes in economic conditions, including changes in interest rates, strength of the United States dollar, financial market performance, credit availability and industry-specific factors, could impact the economy in general. Such changes could result in a downward trend that impacts not only our business, but all companies with which we compete; or, the changes could impact only those parts of the economy upon which we rely in a unique fashion; including, for example, the introduction of trade barriers that impact our attempts to expand in North America. See "Recent Global Economic and Financial Market Crisis" above for a related risk factor specific to the current economic crisis. Amendments of the regulations governing our businesses could have a material impact on our operations. Our manufactured products are subject to extensive federal and state regulations. Amendments to any of these regulations and the implementation of new regulations could significantly increase the costs of manufacturing, purchasing, operating or selling our products and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.Our failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in fines, potential civil and criminal liability, 11 suspension of sales or production, or cessation of operations. In addition, a major product recall could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Certain U.S. tax laws currently afford favorable tax treatment for the purchase and sale of recreational vehicles that are used as the equivalent of second homes. These laws and regulations have historically been amended frequently, and it is likely that further amendments and additional regulations will be applicable to us and our products in the future. Amendments to these laws and regulations and the implementation of new regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our operations are subject to a variety of federal and state environmental regulations relating to noise pollution and the use, generation, storage, treatment, emission and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes. Although we believe that we are currently in material compliance with applicable environmental regulations, our failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in fines, potential civil and criminal liability, suspension of production or operations, alterations to the manufacturing process, costly cleanup or capital expenditures. For example, laws mandating greater fuel efficiency and the heightened emission standards that took effect in 2007 have increased our research and development costs and the cost of components necessary for production. Additionally, this event could lead to the temporary unavailability of engines. The next change to emission standards that impacts the Company's products will occur in 2010. Any negative change in the Company's relationship with its major customers could have significant negative effects on revenues and profits. The Company's financial success is directly related to the willingness of its customers to continue to purchase its products. Failure to fill customers' orders in a timely manner could harm the Company's relationships with its customers. Furthermore, if any of the Company's major customers experience a significant downturn in its business, or fails to remain committed to the Company's products or brands, then these customers may reduce or discontinue purchases from the Company, which could have an adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company has three customers that accounted for 65.5% of its total annual sales in 2008 - any negative change in the Company's relationship with any one of them or the orders placed by any one of them could significantly affect the Company's revenues and profits. Economic, legal and other factors could impact our customers' ability to pay accounts receivable balances due from them. In the ordinary course of business, customers are granted terms related to the sale of goods and services delivered to them. These terms typically include a period of time between when the goods and services are tendered for delivery to the customer and when the customer needs to pay for these goods and services. The amounts due under these payment terms are listed as accounts receivable on our balance sheet. Prior to collection of these accounts receivable, our customers could encounter drops in sales, large legal settlements, or other factors which could impact their ability to continue as a going concern and which could affect the collectability of these amounts. Writing off uncollectible accounts receivable could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and cash flow as the Company has major customers with material accounts receivable balances at any given time. See "Recent Global Economic and Financial Market Crisis" above for related risk factor on the current economic crisis and its potential impact on our customers. We depend on a small group of suppliers for some of our components, and the loss of any of these suppliers could affect our ability to obtain components at competitive prices, which would decrease our sales or earnings. Most chassis, fire truck, aerial ladder and ambulance commodity components are readily available from a variety of sources. However, a few proprietary or specialty components are produced by a small group of quality suppliers that have the capacity to support our requirements. Changes in our relationships with these suppliers, shortages, production delays or work stoppages by the employees of such suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our ability to timely manufacture our products and secure sales. If we cannot obtain an adequate supply of components, 12 this could result in a decrease in our sales and earnings. See "Recent Global Economic and Financial Market Crisis" above for related risk factor on the current economic crisis and its potential impact on our suppliers. Fuel shortages, or higher prices for fuel, could have a negative effect on sales. Gasoline or diesel fuel is required for the operation of motor homes, fire trucks, aerial ladders and ambulances. Particularly in view of increased international tensions and increased global demand for oil, there can be no assurance that the supply of these petroleum products will continue uninterrupted, that rationing will not be imposed or that the price of or tax on these petroleum products will not significantly increase in the future. Increases in gasoline and diesel prices and speculation about potential fuel shortages have had an unfavorable effect on consumer demand for motor homes from time to time in the past, which then has a material adverse effect on sales volume, and may do so in the future. Increases in the price of oil also can result in significant increases in the price of many of the components in our products, which may have a negative impact on margins or sales volumes. Fluctuations in Quarterly Results The Company's quarterly operating results depend on a variety of factors including, but not limited to, the timing and volume of additional military orders that are dependent on U.S. government contracts awarded to our customers. Accordingly, the Company may be subject to significant and unanticipated quarter-to-quarter fluctuations. Potential Volatility of Stock Price The market price of the Company's common stock has been and could continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to, among other things, quarterly fluctuations in operating results, the ability to obtain additional U.S. government contracts or subcontracts, changes in congressional appropriations program funding levels, a failure to meet published estimates of or changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts, sales of common stock by existing holders, loss of key personnel, market conditions in our industries, shortages of key product inventory components and general economic conditions. Credit market developments may reduce availability under our credit agreement. Due to the current volatile state of the credit markets, there is risk that lenders, even those with strong balance sheets and sound lending practices, could fail or refuse to honor their legal commitments and obligations under existing credit commitments. If our lenders fail to honor their legal commitments under our credit facilities, it could be difficult in the current environment to replace our credit facilities on similar terms. Although we believe that our operating cash flow, access to capital markets and existing credit facilities will give us the ability to satisfy our liquidity needs for at least the next 12 months, the failure of any of the lenders under our credit facilities may impact our ability to finance our operating or investing activities. When we introduce new products we may incur expenses that we did not anticipate, such as recall expenses, resulting in reduced earnings. The introduction of new products is critical to our future success. We have additional costs when we introduce new products, such as initial labor or purchasing inefficiencies, but we may also incur unexpected expenses. For example, we may experience unexpected engineering or design flaws that will force a recall of a new product. In addition, we may make business decisions that include offering incentives to stimulate the sales of products not adequately accepted by the market, or to stimulate sales of older or obsolete products. The costs resulting from these types of problems could be substantial and have a significant adverse effect on our earnings. If there is a rise in the frequency and size of product liability, warranty and other claims against us, including wrongful death claims, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be harmed. We are frequently subject, in the ordinary course of business, to litigation involving product liability and other claims, including wrongful death claims, related to personal injury and warranties. We partially self-insure our product liability claims and purchase excess product liability insurance in the commercial insurance market. We 13 cannot be certain that our insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover all future claims against us. Any increase in the frequency and size of these claims, as compared to our experience in prior years, may cause the premiums that we are required to pay for such insurance to rise significantly. It may also increase the amounts we pay in punitive damages, which may not be covered by our insurance. Increased costs, including costs of raw materials, component parts and labor costs, potentially impacted by changes in labor rates and practices, could reduce our operating income. Our results of operations may be significantly affected by the availability and pricing of manufacturing components and labor, as well as changes in labor rates and practices. Increases in raw materials used in our products could affect the cost of our supply materials and components, as the rising steel and aluminum prices have impacted the cost of certain of the Company's manufacturing components. Although we attempt to mitigate the effect of any escalation in components and labor costs by negotiating with current or new suppliers and by increasing productivity or, where necessary, by increasing the sales prices of our products, we cannot be certain that we will be able to do so without it having an adverse impact on the competitiveness of our products and, therefore, our sales volume. If we cannot successfully offset increases in our manufacturing costs, this could have a material adverse impact on our margins, operating income and cash flows. Our profit margins may decrease if prices of purchased comp onent parts or labor rates increase and we are unable to pass on those increases to our customers. Even if we were able to offset higher manufacturing costs by increasing the sales prices of our products, the realization of any such increases often lags behind the rise in manufacturing costs, especially in our operations, due in part to our commitment to give our customers and dealers price protection with respect to previously placed customer orders. Failure to maintain effective internal control in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have an adverse effect on our business and stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires us to evaluate annually the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in our annual report on Form 10-K. Based on that evaluation our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2008. Section 404 also requires our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, and report on, the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting based on criteria and standards described in Item 9A of this annual report on Form 10-K. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal control in accordance with those criteria and standards (as they may be modified, supplemented or amended from time to time), we cannot assure you that we will be able to conclude in the future that we have effective internal control over financial repo rting in accordance with Section 404. If we fail to maintain a system of effective internal control, it could have an adverse effect on our business and stock price. The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, has been audited by BDO Seidman LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in its attestation report. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 