ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider and evaluate the risk factors described below and those noted in Item 1 — Business of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that are currently deemed immaterial may also impair our business, financial condition and operating results. If any of these risks occur, our business could be materially harmed. If our business is harmed, the trading price of our common stock could decline. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains “forward-looking” statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Risks Related to the Investigation of our Historical Stock Option Practices and the Resulting Restatement of our Prior Financial Statements In connection with our past stock option grant practices, we have been subjected to a number of ongoing shareholder lawsuits, unable to file periodic reports to the SEC on a timely basis and delisted from the NASDAQ Global Select Market (formerly the NASDAQ National Market). We have also been subject to an informal inquiry by the SEC, subject to an investigation by the U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of California (the “U.S. Attorney”), subject to an ongoing audit by the Internal Revenue Service, and required to suspend the issuance of shares upon the exercise of all of our outstanding stock options and restricted stock units (“RSUS”) and purchases under our employee stock purchase program inasmuch as our Form S-8 registration statements for our equity plans are not effective because of our delinquent SEC periodic reporting. The informal SEC investigation has subsequently been settled without any admission of wrongdoing on the part of the Company and without any assessment of penalties and the U.S Attorney subsequently informed us that its office does not intend to pursue any further investigation or action against the Company concerning our option grant practices. As a result of these events, we have been and remain subject to a number of risks, including the following, each of which could result in a material adverse effect to our business, financial condition and results of operations and/or a negative effect on the market for our stock: (i) the commencement of additional regulatory or governmental investigations relating to our restatement or option grant practices; (ii) private litigation relating to our restatement or option grant practices, including the pending or new stockholder litigation or possible litigation by option holders; (iii) currently unanticipated issues with respect to our restatement or our ability to become current in our periodic SEC reports that could materially delay our ability to permit the exercise of outstanding options and RSUs and to achieve relisting on NASDAQ or another national securities exchange, which would likely have a material adverse effect on the liquidity of our common stock and our ability to recruit and retain employees; (iv) additional significant costs in effectuating on-going or additional remedial actions or in dealing with any further litigation or unanticipated problems in attaining relisting of our shares on NASDAQ or another national securities exchange; and (v) diversion of the time and attention of members of our management and our board of directors from the management of our business. 7 Table of Contents Dependence on New Products, Packages and Process Technologies Our future success will continue to depend on our ability to introduce new products and to develop new packages and process technologies. Semiconductor design and package and process technologies are subject to rapid technological change, requiring a high level of expenditures for time consuming research and development. Design and package and process development for the portions of the semiconductor market in which we participate are particularly challenging. The success of new product introductions is dependent on several factors, including proper product features, timely product introduction, achievement of acceptable production test times and yields. From time to time, we have not fully achieved our new product introduction and process development goals. There can be no assurance that we will successfully develop or implement new process technologies or that new products will be introduced on a timely basis or receive sufficient market acceptance. It is difficult to predict a schedule for a new product. If a product is not developed on time or does not meet a customer’s specifications, the development can be a complete failure. Additionally, we do not always have the necessary development tools, the number of engineers, product definers or business managers, skill sets or experience required in these areas, which may result in our not meeting our research and development goals. Development tools sometimes require licensing and sometimes become obsolete, which can contribute to higher research and development expenses. Dependence on New Markets and Consumer Demand Our growth is dependent on our continued ability to defend our existing market and penetrate new markets. We have limited experience in new markets and competition is intense. Innovation, by its nature, is dependent on applying good judgment to predict future technology trends, often based on little existing data about those new markets. There can be no assurance that the markets we serve will grow (for example, older markets do saturate and decline); that our existing and new products will meet the requirements of such markets; that our products will achieve customer acceptance in such markets; that competitors will not drive prices to an unacceptably low level or take market share from us; or that we can achieve or maintain profitability in these markets. Additionally, we have increased the emphasis on highly-integrated products in our product development plans. Such products are more vulnerable to time-to-market demands, proper new product definitions with the right set of functionalities, development execution delays and gross margin pressure. Delays in product development can significantly reduce return on investment and adversely affect our growth. In addition, highly integrated product lives are generally shorter. Shorter product lives can result in excess inventory which we would have to write down. Such write downs may materially adversely impact our results of operations. Furthermore, changes in demand in the market could have a negative impact on certain of our products. Such change in demand and resulting restructuring of or changes in our business could lead to the closure or consolidation of facilities. This may result in additional costs which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Industry Standard Risks Many of our products are based on industry standards that are continually evolving. Our ability to compete in the future will depend on our ability to identify and ensure compliance with these evolving industry standards. The emergence of new industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by major systems manufacturers. As a result, we could be required to invest significant time and effort and to incur significant expense to redesign our products to ensure compliance with relevant standards. If our products are not in compliance with prevailing industry standards or requirements, we could miss opportunities to achieve crucial design wins which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating and financial results. Manufacturing Risks The fabrication of integrated circuits is a highly complex and precise process. Minute impurities, contaminants in the manufacturing environment, difficulties in the fabrication process, defects in the masks used in the wafer manufacturing process, manufacturing equipment failures, wafer breakage, or other factors can 8 Table of Contents cause a substantial percentage of wafers to be rejected or numerous dice on each wafer to be nonfunctional. We have from time to time experienced reliability problems and lower-than-expected production yields, which have delayed product shipments and adversely affected gross margins. There can be no assurance that we will not experience a decrease in manufacturing yields or reliability or quality problems that could expose us to liability, product returns and product warranty claims. Further, the number of shippable dice per wafer for a given product is critical to our results of operations. To the extent we do not achieve acceptable manufacturing yields or experience delays in wafer fabrication, wafer sort, assembly or final test operations, our results of operations could be adversely affected. During periods of decreased demand, fixed wafer fabrication costs could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, gross margins, and results of operations. The relatively lengthy manufacturing cycle could result in inventory imbalances. A product or inventory shortage could adversely affect our customer relations, while any excess inventory may ultimately become unsalable. The occurrence of either of such events may adversely affect our financial condition. We manufacture most of our wafer production requirements internally. Given the nature of our products, it would be very difficult and costly to arrange for independent manufacturing facilities to supply such products. Any prolonged inability to utilize one of our manufacturing facilities as a result of fire, natural disaster, unavailability of electric power or otherwise, would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, some of our current manufacturing and test equipment may become excess or obsolete over time due to changes in manufacturing or test processes, technology changes, or changes in demand for our products. Should this occur, we would be required to write down such equipment to its salvage value which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Competition We experience intense competition from a number of companies, some of which have significantly greater financial, manufacturing, and marketing resources than us while others have greater technical resources and proprietary intellectual property rights than us. Our ability to compete successfully depends on factors both within and outside our control. We may be excluded from our customers’ product designs because we cannot provide a complete chip set as required by the customer. There can be no assurance that competitive factors will not adversely affect our future business. To the extent that our proprietary products become more successful, competitors will offer second source products or functionally equivalent products for some of those products, which could erode our profit margins. Competitors may develop or acquire intellectual property that can control certain portions of the semiconductor market in which we compete. Our competitors could use this intellectual property to design products that compete more favorably with our products in terms of performance and pricing. Competitors could also use this intellectual property to design products that can be bundled with other products offered by the competitor and thus exclude us from competing on additional products or in other semiconductor markets. Additionally, the development or acquisition by competitors of intellectual property could prevent us from using such intellectual property in the product development process or could cause delays in such development. Certain of our product offerings are an attractive target for smaller competitors with lower gross and operating margin percentage levels than ours. These companies often target our product offerings with direct or functionally-equivalent second-sources and attempt to take market share at gross and operating margin percentage levels that are improvements to their financial performance but which would be detrimental to our objectives. Dependence on Independent Distributors and Sales Representatives A portion of our sales is realized through independent electronics distributors that are not under our control. These independent sales organizations generally represent product lines offered by several companies and thus could reduce their sales efforts applied to our products or terminate their representation of us. We generally 9 Table of Contents require foreign distributors to provide a letter of credit to us in an amount equal to the credit limit set for accounts receivable from such foreign distributors. The letter of credit provides for collection on accounts receivable from the foreign distributor should the foreign distributor default on their accounts receivable to us. In limited instances, where credit limits have been established above the amount of the letter of credit, we are exposed for the difference. We do not require letters of credit from any of our domestic distributors and are not protected against accounts receivable default or bankruptcy by these distributors. The inability to collect open accounts receivable could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Termination of a significant distributor, whether at our or the distributor’s initiative, could be disruptive to our current business. As previously noted, in fiscal year 2008, we selected one of our distributors, Avnet, Inc., as our primary global distributor and ended our distribution arrangements with Arrow Electronics. Should we not successfully transition end customers currently purchasing product from Arrow Electronics to purchasing product from Avnet or other Company franchised distributors, such customers might begin purchasing our competitor’s products. This, along with the inability to find a suitable replacement should a significant distributor or representative terminate their distributor arrangement with us, could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. Additionally, should the intended benefits from selecting Avnet as our primary global distributor not materialize, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Dependence on Independent Foundries, Subcontractors, Thailand and Philippines Test and Shipping Facilities We have an internal capability to fabricate most of our wafers and we remain dependent on outside silicon foundries for a portion of our wafer fabrication. None of the independent foundries currently used by us is affiliated with us. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, from time to time, we have experienced disruptions in the supply of processed wafers from these foundries due to quality problems, unsatisfactory electrical yields, capacity limitations and process obsolescence. Procurement from foundries is done by purchase order and contracts. Should our orders for purchases of integrated circuits manufactured by these silicon foundries not reflect our customers’ ultimate demand for related products, we could have either excess inventory or insufficient inventory to satisfy demand. Excess inventory would result in an inventory write off that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Too little inventory would prevent us from meeting customer demand and could potentially damage customer relationships and future revenue growth from these customers. We rely on assembly subcontractors located in the Philippines, Malaysia, Thailand, China, Singapore, Taiwan and South Korea to separate wafers into individual integrated circuits and to package them. None of the assembly subcontractors we currently use is affiliated with us. Reliability problems experienced by our assemblers or the inability to replace an assembly subcontractor could cause serious problems in delivery and quality resulting in potential product liability to us. Such problems could impair our ability to meet our revenue plan in the fiscal period impacted by the disruption. Failure to meet the revenue plan may materially adversely impact our results of operations. We perform substantially all of our final testing at our facilities in the Philippines and Thailand. Any prolonged inability to utilize one of our testing facilities as a result of fire, natural disaster, political instability, unavailability of electric power or otherwise, would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In fiscal year 2009, we plan to reduce our wafer sort, final test, and shipping operations in all of our domestic-based facilities in order to reduce manufacturing costs. This production will be transferred to our manufacturing facilities located in Cavite, the Philippines or Chonburi Province, Thailand. Products currently produced at our domestic facilities have a high technical content and are more difficult to manufacture than the products currently tested in our offshore facilities. Failure to successfully transfer manufacturing of these products to our offshore facilities may result in reduced yields and unsatisfactory quality. Failure to successfully transfer this manufacturing to our offshore facilities may adversely affect our ability to supply products to our customers which could materially adversely impact our results of operations. 10 Table of Contents As previously noted, the majority of our finished products currently ship directly from Cavite, the Philippines or Chonburi Province, Thailand to our customers worldwide or to other Maxim locations for sale to end customers or distributors. Should there be disruption for any reason to either of our shipping operations in Cavite, the Philippines or Chonburi Province, Thailand, we might not be able to meet our revenue plan in the fiscal period impacted by the disruption. Failure to meet the revenue plan may materially adversely impact our results of operations. We currently expect that in fiscal year 2009 we will need to add additional sort and final test capacity to meet customer demand. In the past, we have generally met increased sort and final test capacity requirements by constructing additional manufacturing space; however, in fiscal year 2009, we also anticipate to enter into outsourcing agreements with major assembly and test subcontractors in Asia. Failure to expand manufacturing space or negotiate an acceptable contract with a suitable subcontractor could result in increased manufacturing costs. Additionally, such failure may result in insufficient internal manufacturing capacity. Given the complexity of our wafer sort and final test operations, it may be difficult to transfer production to a third party without suffering yield, quality, or delivery problems. Failure of the subcontractor to perform satisfactorily may adversely affect our costs and our ability to supply products to our customers which could materially adversely impact our results of operations. Any disruptions in our sort, assembly, test or shipping operations or in the operations of our manufacturing subcontractors, including, but not limited to, the inability or unwillingness of any of our these subcontractors to produce adequate supplies of processed wafers, integrated circuit packages or tested product conforming to our quality standards or their inability to provide timely delivery of products or services required by us, could adversely affect the continuity of product supply as well as damage our reputation, relationship and goodwill with affected customers. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Furthermore, finding alternate sources of supply or initiating internal wafer processing for these products may not be economically feasible. Availability and Quality of Materials, Supplies, and Subcontract Services The semiconductor industry has experienced a very large expansion of fabrication capacity and production worldwide over time. As a result of increasing demand from semiconductor, solar and other manufacturers, availability of certain basic materials and supplies, such as raw wafers and silicon on insulator wafers, chemicals, gases, polysilicon, silicon wafers, ultra-pure metals, lead frames and molding compounds, and of subcontract services, like epitaxial growth, ion implantation and assembly of integrated circuits into packages, has been limited from time to time over the past several years, and could come into short supply again if overall industry demand exceeds the supply of these materials and services in the future. We purchase materials and supplies from many suppliers, some of which are sole-sourced. If the availability of these materials and supplies is interrupted, we may not be able to find suitable replacements. In addition, from time to time natural disasters can lead to a shortage of some of the above materials due to disruption of the manufacturer’s production. We devote continuous efforts to maintain availability of all required materials, supplies and subcontract services. However, we do not have long-term agreements providing for all of these materials, supplies and services, and shortages could occur as a result of capacity limitations or production constraints on suppliers that could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our planned production. A number of our products, including nonvolatile Static Random Access Memory products (“SRAMs”), real time clocks, and iButton™ products use components such as memory circuits, batteries, PC boards and crystals that are purchased from third parties. We anticipate that, from time to time, supplies of these components may not be sufficient to meet all customer requested delivery dates for products containing the components. As a result of any such shortages, future sales and earnings from products using these components could be adversely affected. Additionally, significant fluctuations in the purchase price for these components could affect gross 11 Table of Contents margins for the products involved. Suppliers could also discontinue the manufacture of such purchased products or could have quality problems that could affect our ability to meet customer commitments. Quality problems experienced by suppliers may be impossible to reproduce or detect in a controlled environment, or may not be detected by our quality control procedures. Should undetected quality problems occur, such defects may become part of our finished product ultimately sold to customers. If such defects cause quality control problems in the manufacture of customers’ end-products or cause direct or indirect damages to either our customers or the ultimate end-user, we may be liable for our customers’ increased production costs and both direct and indirect damages caused by the defective product. Such liability could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, suppliers of semiconductor manufacturing equipment are sometimes unable to deliver test and/or wafer fabrication equipment to a schedule or equipment performance specification that meets our requirements. Delays in delivery of equipment could adversely affect our ability to achieve our manufacturing and revenue plans in the future. Environmental Regulation Various foreign and United States federal, state, and local government agencies impose a variety of environmental regulations on the storage, handling, use, discharge and disposal of certain chemicals, gases and other substances used or produced in the semiconductor manufacturing process. There can be no assurance, however, that interpretation and enforcement of current or future environmental regulations will not impose costly requirements upon us. Any failure by us to not adequately control the storage, handling, use, discharge or disposal of regulated substances could result in fines, suspension of production, alteration of wafer fabrication processes and legal liability, which may materially adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Increasing public attention has been focused on the environmental impact of electronic manufacturing operations and waste electronic equipment. While we to date have not experienced any material adverse effects on our business from environmental regulations, there can be no assurance that changes in such regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Possible effects include, but are not limited to, making costly changes to manufacturing, waste discharge or disposal processes and purchasing higher cost equipment or materials. In 2003, the European Union (“EU”) adopted mandatory restrictions on the use of certain hazardous substances including, but not limited to, cadmium, lead and mercury. The deadline to comply with these restrictions was July 1, 2006. Other countries, including those in Asia, have adopted voluntary programs or are considering legislation to restrict or prohibit the use of certain hazardous substances. We also anticipate that more stringent environmental rules and regulations will come in effect in the future. We have transitioned the manufacturing process of most of our products to eliminate the use of these hazardous substances which are currently prohibited. However, some of our products may still contain lead and other prohibited hazardous substances which continue to be sold under certain authorized exemptions. If our products do not meet the EU’s or our customer’s restriction on the use of certain hazardous substances or similar restrictions by other countries which may enact such legislation, it would preclude us from selling products containing these substances to customers in these affected locations, and our customers will find alternate suppliers. This could materially impact our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, we still maintain products in our inventory which contain these substances based on forecasted demand from certain customers. We periodically write off any quantities of such products that are in excess of forecasted demand. Should we be unable to sell any such products remaining in our inventory to locations or customers which do not have such restrictions or if customers revise purchase orders to reduce order quantities of products containing lead and other hazardous substances, we would have to write such inventory off as obsolete. This could materially adversely impact our results of operations. In addition to the above, should we ship product with restrictions on the use of certain hazardous 12 Table of Contents substances into countries which prohibit such substances, we may be subject to fines from government authorities and damage claims from customers. Such fines and damage claims could materially adversely impact our results of operations. In addition, should we be required to use additional outside subcontractors, due to any environmental restrictions on certain of our products, there can be no guarantee that we would be able to locate an acceptable vendor or successfully transfer the manufacturing of the products containing hazardous substances once an acceptable vendor were located. Our inability to locate an acceptable vendor or effectively transfer production could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Protection of Proprietary Information and Intellectual Property Indemnification We rely upon both know-how and patents to develop and maintain our competitive position. There can be no assurance that others will not develop or patent similar technology, reverse engineer our products or that the confidentiality agreements upon which we rely will be adequate to protect our interests. Moreover, the laws of foreign countries generally do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the United States, and we may encounter problems in protecting our proprietary rights in those foreign countries. Other companies have obtained patents covering a variety of semiconductor designs and processes, and we might be required to obtain licenses under some of these patents or be precluded from making and selling the infringing products, if these patents are found to be valid. There can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain licenses, if required, upon commercially reasonable terms or at all. From time to time, we have received, and in the future may receive, notice of claims of infringement by our products on intellectual property rights of third parties. If one or more of our products or processes were determined to infringe on any such intellectual property rights of a third party, a court might enjoin us from further manufacture and/or sale of the affected products. We would then need to obtain a license from the holders of the rights and/or to re-engineer our products or processes in such a way as to avoid the alleged infringement. In the past, it has been common in the semiconductor industry for patent holders to offer licenses on reasonable terms and rates. Although the practice of offering licenses appears to be generally continuing, in some situations, typically where the patent directly relates to a specific product or family of products, patent holders have refused to grant licenses. In any of those cases, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain any necessary license on commercially reasonable terms acceptable to us or at all or that we would be able to re-engineer our products or processes to avoid infringement. An adverse result in litigation arising from such a claim could involve an injunction to prevent the sales of a material portion of our products, the reduction or elimination of the value of related inventories and the assessment of a substantial monetary award for damages related to past sales, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We provide intellectual property indemnification for certain customers, distributors, suppliers and subcontractors for attorney fees and damages and costs awarded against these parties in certain circumstances in which our products are alleged to infringe third party intellectual property rights, including patents, registered trademarks and copyrights. In certain cases, there are limits on and exceptions to our potential liability for indemnification relating to intellectual property infringement claims. We cannot estimate the amount of potential future payments, if any, that we might be required to make as a result of these agreements. To date, we have not been required to pay significant amounts for intellectual property indemnification claims. However, there can be no assurance that we will not have significant financial exposure under those intellectual property indemnification obligations. Enterprise Resource Planning System We currently expect to implement a new enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system as part of our ongoing efforts to improve and strengthen our operational and financial processes and our reporting systems. Any difficulties encountered in the implementation or operation of our new ERP system or any difficulties in the 13 Table of Contents operation of our current ERP system could cause us to fail to meet customer demand for our product or could delay our ability to meet our financial reporting obligations which, in turn, could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Global Economic and Political Conditions Our business is increasingly dependent on the global economy. Any global events impacting the world economy or specific regions of the world, such as political instability or terrorist activity, could impact economic activity which, in turn, could lead to a contraction of customer demand or a disruption in our operations. In the past, our assembly contractors in Malaysia, South Korea, Thailand and the Philippines have been impacted by political disorders, labor disruptions, criminal activities and natural disasters. We have been affected by these problems in the past and none has materially affected our results of operations to date. However, similar problems in the future or not-yet-materialized consequences of past problems, could affect deliveries of our product to our customers, possibly resulting in substantially delayed or lost sales and/or increased expenses. The occurrence of political conflicts or economic crises in countries where our sort, assembly, test, shipping operations and manufacturing subcontractors or distribution channels or customers are located could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Natural Disasters We operate our business in worldwide locations. Our facilities in California, which include our corporate, research and manufacturing facilities, are in close proximity to known earthquake fault zones. In addition, our locations in Southeast Asia are susceptible to damage from earthquakes, tsunamis and other natural disasters. In the event of a natural disaster, we may suffer a disruption in our operations which could adversely affect our results of operations. Insurance We are primarily self-insured with respect to most of our risks and exposures. Based on management’s assessment and judgment, we have determined that it is generally more cost effective to self-insure these risks. The risks and exposures we self-insure include, but are not limited to, fire, property and casualty, natural disasters, product defects, political risk, general liability, theft, counterfeits, patent infringement, certain employment practice matters and medical benefits for the vast majority of our domestic (United States) employees. We also maintain insurance contracts with independent insurance companies that provide certain of our employees with health (medical and dental) benefits, worker’s compensation coverage, long-term disability income coverage, life insurance coverage and fiduciary insurance coverage for employee and Company funds invested under the Employee Retirement Income and Security Act. In addition, we maintain officer and director liability coverage and certain property insurance contracts with independent insurance companies. Should there be catastrophic loss from events such as fires, explosions or earthquakes or other natural disasters, among many other risks, or adverse court or similar decisions in any area in which we are self-insured, our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity may be materially adversely affected. Product Liability We warrant our products to our customers generally for one year from the date of shipment, but in certain cases for longer periods. Warranty expense to date has been minimal. In certain cases, which are becoming more commonplace, our product warranty may include significant financial responsibility beyond the cost of replacing the product. In the event that significant warranty claims in excess of historical levels are incurred, our results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. We face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability suits in connection with reliability problems which may be experienced by our customers. Our products are used by varying industries which include the automotive 14 Table of Contents and medical industries. Failure of our products to perform to specifications could lead to substantial damage to both the end product in which our device has been placed and to the user of such end product. If a product liability claim is brought against us, the cost of defending the claim could be significant and any adverse determination could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We manufacture and sell products into many global jurisdictions where our efforts to contractually limit liability for certain damages, including consequential, indirect and non-proximately caused damages may not be enforceable or may found by a court to not apply in a particular situation. As we continue to partner with certain customers we may be required to accept increasing exposure for liability including product liability. We believe these relationships with key customers will continue to increase. We continue to attempt to structure our relationships to reduce such liability exposures. Additionally, we attempt to mitigate these exposures through our Quality Assurance developing and maintaining closer working relationships with our critical customers. Claims for damages arising in such liability claims could materially impact the Company financially. Should we choose to not enter such relationships, our revenues and financial operations could be materially affected. Customer Supply Agreements We enter into contracts with certain customers whereby we commit to supply quantities of specified parts at a predetermined scheduled delivery date. The number of such arrangements continues to increase as this practice becomes more commonplace. Should we be unable to supply the customer with the specific part at the quantity and product quality desired on the scheduled delivery date, the customer may incur additional production costs. In addition, the customer may incur lost revenues due to a delay in receiving the parts necessary to have the end-product ready for sale to its customers or due to product quality issues which may arise. Under the customer supply agreements, we may be liable for direct additional production costs or lost revenues. If products were not shipped on time or were quality deficient, we may be liable for resulting damages. Such liability, should it arise, and/or our inability to meet these commitments to our customers may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition and would damage our relationship, reputation and goodwill with the affected customers. Vendor Managed Inventory We enter into arrangements with certain original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) and Electronic Manufacturing Services (“EMS”) partners to consign quantities of certain products within close proximity of the OEMs and EMS partners’ manufacturing location. The inventory is physically segregated at these locations and we retain title and risk of loss related to this inventory until such time as the OEM or EMS partner pulls the inventory for use in their manufacturing process. Once the inventory is pulled by the OEM or EMS partner, title and risk of loss pass to the customer, at which point we relieve inventory, recognize revenue and the related cost of goods sold. The specific quantities to be consigned are based on a forecast provided by the OEM or EMS partner. Generally, the arrangements with the OEMs and EMS partners provide for transfer of title and risk of loss once product has been consigned for a certain length of time. We believe these arrangements will continue to grow in terms of number of customers and products and will increase in proportion to consolidated net revenues. It is our belief that revenues from such arrangement will eventually become significant to consolidated net revenues. Should we be unable or unwilling to enter into such agreements as requested by OEMs or EMS partners, our results of operations may be materially adversely impacted. Should we be unable to supply the specific product and quantity needed by the OEM or EMS partner as reflected in their forecast, we may be liable for damages, including but not limited to, lost revenues and increased production costs which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Should we supply product in excess of the OEMs or EMS partners actual usage, any inventory not consumed may become excess or obsolete which would result in an inventory write off that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Volatility of Stock Price The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly. In the future, the market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations due to general economic and market conditions and in response to quarter-to-quarter variations including but not limited to the following: • our anticipated or actual result of operations; • announcements or introductions of new products by us or our competitors; • anticipated or actual operating results of our customers, peers or competitors; • technological innovations or setbacks by us or our competitors; • conditions in our four major markets; • the commencement or outcome of litigation or governmental investigations; • change in ratings and estimates of our performance by securities analysts; • announcements of merger or acquisition transactions; • announcement of a transaction in which employees may exchange their under-water stock options for new equity, cash or a combination of new equity or cash; • dividend changes; • changes in our capital structure, including any decision we make in regard to the repurchase of our common stock; • management changes; • our inclusion in certain stock indices; • our inclusion in a national stock exchange; • our ability to maintain compliance with the SEC reporting requirements; and • other events or factors beyond our control. The stock market in recent years has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of many high technology companies, particularly semiconductor companies. In some instances, these fluctuations appear to have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the affected companies. Any such fluctuation could harm the market price of our common stock. Taxes A number of factors may increase our future effective tax rates, including: • the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; • the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; • changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; • adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; • increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in-process research and development and impairments of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; • changes in available tax credits; • changes in share-based compensation; 16 Table of Contents • changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws, and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; and • the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings for which we have not previously provided for U.S. taxes. We are subject to taxation in various countries and jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required to determine tax liabilities on a worldwide basis. Our future tax rates could be affected by various changes in the composition of earnings in countries with different tax rates, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in the tax laws. Any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could reduce net income for future periods and may materially adversely impact our results from operations. Potential Income Tax Liabilities Under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code and Other Tax Penalties As a result of our investigation into our historical stock option granting practices, we have determined that a number of our outstanding stock option awards were granted at exercise prices below the fair market value of our stock on the appropriate accounting measurement date. The primary adverse tax consequence is that the re-measured options vesting after December 31, 2004, or options that are materially modified after October 3, 2004, are potentially subject to option holder excise tax under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code (and, as applicable, similar excise taxes under state law or foreign law). Option holders who hold options which are determined to have been granted with exercise prices below the fair market value of the underlying shares of common stock on the appropriate measurement date would be subject to taxes, penalties and interest under Section 409A if no action is taken to cure the options from exposure under Section 409A before December 31, 2008. We took action in fiscal year 2008 to cure certain options from exposure under Section 409A. There can be no assurance that such action cured all potential circumstances in which Section 409A would apply. Should it be found that excise taxes under Section 409A apply to option holders subsequent to our ability to cure the options from exposure to Section 409A, and we decide to reimburse option holders for such taxes, our results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Also as a result of our investigation into equity awards, we have determined that certain payroll taxes, interest and penalties apply under various sections of the Internal Revenue Code, various state tax statutes, and tax statutes in various foreign jurisdictions. Maxim has reviewed these potential liabilities and accrued the estimated probable of amount of the liability. There can be no assurance that Maxim’s accruals covered all potential circumstances in which additional payroll taxes, interest and penalties would apply. Should it be found that additional payroll taxes, interest and penalties would apply, our results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Foreign Trade and Currency Fluctuations We conduct our manufacturing and other operations in various worldwide locations. A portion of operating costs and expenses at foreign locations are paid in local currencies. Many of the materials used in our products and much of the manufacturing process for our products are supplied by foreign companies or by our foreign operations, such as our test operations in the Philippines and Thailand. Approximately 80%, 77% and 78% of our net revenues in fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006 were shipped to foreign locations. Accordingly, both manufacturing and sales of our products may be adversely affected by political or economic conditions abroad. In addition, various forms of protectionist trade legislation are routinely proposed in the United States and certain foreign countries. A change in current tariff structures or other trade policies could adversely affect our foreign manufacturing or marketing strategies. Currency exchange fluctuations could also increase our operating costs and the cost of components manufactured abroad, and the cost of our products to foreign customers or decrease the costs of products from our foreign competitors. We are subject to U.S. Customs and Export Regulations, including U.S. International Traffic and Arms Regulations and similar laws, which collectively control import, export and sale of technologies by U.S. 17 Table of Contents companies. Failure to comply with such regulations may result in civil and criminal enforcement, including monetary fines and possible injunctions against shipment of product, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Dependence on Key Personnel Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our chief executive officer, our other executive officers, and key management and technical personnel, particularly our experienced engineers and business unit managers, and on our ability to continue to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel. The competition for such employees is intense. We believe our ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel has not been significantly affected by the consequences of the independent stock option review including, but are not limited to, the inability to allow exercise of employee stock options and restricted stock units, inability to participate in the Employee Stock Purchase Plan, delisting of our common stock from trading on NASDAQ and unavailability of financial information regarding our financial performance. The loss of the services of one or several of our executive officers could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, there could be a material adverse effect on us should the turnover rates for engineers and other key personnel increase significantly or should we be unable to continue to attract, motivate and retain qualified personnel. Should we lose an engineer who is key to a project’s completion during the course of a particular project, the project’s completion may be delayed. This delay could negatively affect customer relationships and goodwill and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We do not maintain any key person life insurance policies on any of our officers or employees. We are planning to offer our employees the opportunity to exchange their stock options which have an exercise price greater than the Company’s stock price (“under-water stock options”) for equity, cash or some combination thereof, subject to all required approvals. If we are unable to complete such an exchange transaction, it may result in the loss of services of key personnel, low morale and decreased productivity. Senior Management Changes; Reduced Productivity of New Hires During fiscal years 2007 and 2008, we experienced significant change in our senior management team and we may continue to experience such changes. Our former Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and our former chief financial officer (“CFO”) no longer served the Company in any capacity after January 2007. They were immediately replaced by Mr. Doluca, former group president, as the new CEO and member of the Board of Directors and Alan P. Hale, Vice President of Maxim and former chief financial officer of Dallas Semiconductor (acquired by Maxim in fiscal 2001) as Interim Chief Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer. In addition, a number of other members of the senior management team were promoted to new roles during fiscal year 2007, principally Matthew Murphy to Vice President of Worldwide Sales and Vijay Ullal to Group President. Later, in September 2007, Mr. Bruce Kiddoo joined the Company as Vice President of Finance. Following the completion of the Company’s restatement of previously filed financial statements, Mr. Kiddoo will be appointed Chief Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer of the Company. For new employees or changes in senior management, there may be reduced levels of productivity as recent additions or hires are trained or otherwise assimilate and adapt to our organization and culture. Further, this turnover may also make it difficult to execute on our business plan and achieve our planned financial results. Internal Controls Over Financial Reporting Material weaknesses existed in our internal controls over financial reporting related to our not maintaining an effective control environment and, separately, not maintaining effective controls over our stock option practices and the related accounting for stock option transactions, which are discussed in further detail in 18 Table of Contents Item 9A — Controls and Procedures. As a result of these material weaknesses, our systems of internal controls failed to timely prevent or detect errors which had a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that subsequent to the filing date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K that additional material weaknesses will not be identified which will have a material adverse effect on our financial statements. Potential Dilutive Effect of Additional Stock Issuance We have a significant number of authorized but unissued shares of our common stock available. These shares will provide us with the flexibility to issue our common stock for proper corporate purposes, which may include making acquisitions through the use of stock, adopting additional equity incentive plans and raising equity capital. Any issuance of our common stock may result in immediate dilution of our stockholders. Anti-Takeover Provisions Our certificate of incorporation permits our Board of Directors to authorize the issuance of up to 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the rights, preferences and privileges and restrictions applicable to such shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders. Any such issuance might discourage, delay or prevent a hostile change in control of our company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 