ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS div>The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. Please also see the introductory section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K entitled "Forward-Looking Statements" for additional discussion regarding forward-looking statements. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occurs, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Cyclicality in the semiconductor industry may adversely affect our results of operations The semiconductor industry historically has been cyclical and subject to significant and often rapid increases and decreases in demand for products and services. These changes could have adverse effects on our results of operations and on the market price of our common stock. The results of our operations may be adversely affected in the future if demand for our products and services decreases or if we are unable to meet an increase in demand without significantly increasing the lead-time for the delivery of our products and services. Incorrect forecasts, reductions, cancellations or delays in orders for our products could adversely affect our results or operations As is customary in the semiconductor industry, customer orders may be canceled in most cases without penalty to the customers. Some customers place orders that require us to manufacture products and have available for shipment, even though the customer may be unwilling to make a binding commitment to purchase all, or even any, of the products. In other cases, we manufacture product base d on forecasts of customer demands. As a result, we may incur inventory and manufacturing costs in advance of anticipated sales and are subject to the risk of cancellations of orders, potentially leading to an initial inflation of backlog followed by a sharp reduction. In addition, our backlog includes orders from domestic distributors for which revenues are not recognized until the ordered products are sold by the distributors. When combined with the risks of order cancellation, our backlog cannot be used as a measure of future revenue. Furthermore, orders or forecasts may be for products that meet the customer's unique requirements so that those cancelled or unrealized orders would, in addition, result in an inventory of unsaleable products, causing potential inventory write-offs. As a result of lengthy manufacturing cycles for certain of the products, the amount of unsaleable products could be substantial. As a result, incorrect forecasts, or reductions, cancellations or delays in orders for our products 9 could adversely affect our operating results. Our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions The current economic environment could subject us to increased credit risk should customers be unable to pay us, or delay paying us, for previously purchased products. Accordingly, reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. In addition, weakness in the market for end users of our products could harm the cash flow of our distributors and resellers who could then delay paying their obligations to us or experience other financial difficulties. This would further increase our credit risk exposure and, potentially, cause delays in our recognition of revenue on sales to these customers. If global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in the United States or other key markets, deteriorate, we may experience material adverse effects on our business, operating results, and financial condition We may encounter difficulties in operating a newly implemented enterprise resource planning system, which may adversely affect our operations and financial reporting We implemented a new enterprise r esource planning (“ERP”) system in the second quarter of fiscal year 2010 as part of our ongoing efforts to improve and strengthen our operational and financial processes and our reporting systems. Any difficulties in the operation of our current ERP system could cause us to fail to meet customer demand for our product or could delay our ability to meet our financial reporting obligations which, in turn, could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Political conditions could materially affect our revenues and results of operations We are subject to the political and legal risks inherent in international operations. Exposure to political instabilities, different business policies and legal standards could impact economic activity, which in turn, could lead to a contraction of customer demand or a disruption in our operations. We have been affected by these problems in the past, but none have materially affected our results of operations to date. Problems in the future or not-yet-materialized consequences of past problems, could affect deliveries of our product to our customers, possibly resulting in substantially delayed or lost sales and/or increased expenses that could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate, which could adversely impact our common stock price We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. Our operating results have in the past, and will continue to be, subject to quarterly fluctuations as a result of numerous factors, some of which may contribute to more pronounced fluctuations in an uncertain global economic environment. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: • Fluctuations in demand for our products and services, in part due to changes in general economic conditions and specific economic conditions in the semiconductor industry;• Reduced visibility into our customers' spending plans and associated revenue;• The level of price and product competition in our product markets;• The impact of the current uncertain economic and credit environment on our customers, channel partners, and suppliers, including their ability to obtain financing or to fund capital expenditures;• The overall movement toward industry consolidations among our customers and competitors;• Market acceptance of new products and product enhancements;• Announcements and introductions of new products by us or our competitors;• Deferrals of customer orders in anticipation of new products or product enhancements (introduced by us or our competitors);• Our ability to meet increases in customer orders in a timely manner;• Our ability to develop, introduce, and market new products and enhancements in a timely manner; and• Our levels of operating expenses. Our products may fail to meet new industry standards or requirements and the efforts to meet such industry standards or requirements could be costly Many of ou r products are based on industry standards that are continually evolving. Our ability to compete in the future will depend on our ability to identify and ensure compliance with these evolving industry standards. The emergence of new industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by major systems manufacturers. As a result, we could 10 be required to invest significant time and effort and to incur significant expense to redesign our products to ensure compliance with relevant standards. If our products are not in compliance with prevailing industry standards or requirements, we could miss opportunities to achieve crucial design wins which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial results. Our manufacturing operations may be interrupted or suffer yield problems Given the nature of our products, it would be very time consuming, difficult, and costly to a rrange for new manufacturing facilities to supply such products. Any prolonged inability to utilize one of our manufacturing facilities or a third party foundry, due to damages resulting from fire, natural disaster, or unavailability of electric power, would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The manufacture and design of integrated circuits is highly complex. We may experience manufacturing problems in achieving acceptable yields or experience product delivery delays in the future as a result of, among other things, capacity constraints, equipment malfunctioning, construction delays, upgrading or expanding existing facilities or changing our process technologies, any of which could result in a loss of future rev enues or increases in fixed costs. To the extent we do not achieve acceptable manufacturing yields or there are delays in wafer fabrication, our results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, operating expenses related to increases in production capacity may adversely affect our operating results if revenues do not increase proportionately. Any difficulties encountered in connection with our restructured international sales operation may adversely affect our results of operations and financial results During our fiscal year 2010, we restructured and concentrated our international sales operations into Ireland. Any difficulties encountered in the transition to or conduct of such restructured international sales operation may adversely affect our international sales efforts. Any such difficulties could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial results. Our independent distributors and sales representatives may terminate their relationship with us or fail to make payments on outstanding accounts receivable to us, which would affect our financial results A portion of our sales is realized through independent electronics distributors that are not under our control. These independent sales organizations generally represent product lines offered by several companies and thus could reduce their sales efforts applied to our products or terminate their representation of us. We generally require foreign distributors to provide a letter of credit to us in an amount equal to the credit limit set for accounts receivable from such foreign distributors. The letter of credit provides for collection on accounts receivable from the foreign distributor should the foreign distributor default on their accounts receivable to us. Where credit limits have been established above the amount of the letter of credit, we are exposed for the difference. We do not require letters of credit from any of our domestic distributors and are not protected again st accounts receivable default or bankruptcy by these distributors. The inability to collect open accounts receivable could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Termination of a significant distributor, whether at our or the distributor's initiative, could be disruptive to our current business. Our operating results may be adversely affected by increasing competition We experience intense competition from a number of companies, some of which have significantly greater financial, manufacturing, and marketing resources than us while others have greater technical resources and proprietary intellectual property rights than us. The principal elements of competition include product performance, functional value, quality and reliability, technical service and support, price, diversity of product line and delivery capabilities. We believe we compete favorably with respect to these factors, although we may be at a disadvantage in comparison to larger companies with broader product lines and greater technical service and support capabilities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or new competitors or that our operating results will not be adversely affected by increased competition. Our dependence on assembly and test subcontractors may cause delays beyond our control in delivering products to our customers We rely on assembly and CSP packaging subcontractors located in various parts of the world to separate wafers into individual integrated circuits and to package them. None of the assembly subcontractors we currently use are affiliated with us. Reliability problems experienced by our assemblers or the inability to replace an assembly subcontractor could cause serious problems in delivery and quality resulting in potential product liability to us. Such problems could impair our ability to meet our revenue plan 11 in the fiscal period impacted by the disruption. Failure to meet the revenue plan may materially adversely impact our results of operations. (For more information on subcontractor locations, please see Item 1. Business - Manufacturing) Any disruptions in our sort, assembly, test or shipping operations or in the operations of our manufacturing subcontractors, including, but not limited to, the inability or unwillingness of any of our subcontractors to produce adequate supplies of processed wafers, integrated circuit packages or tested product conforming to our quality standards or their inability to provide timely delivery of products or services required by us, could adversely affect the continuity of product supply as well as damage our reputation, relationship and goodwill with customers. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Furthermore, finding alternate sources of supply or initiating internal wafer processing for these products may not be economically feasible. Shortage of raw materials or supply disruption of such raw materials could harm our business The semiconductor industry has experienced a very large expansion of fabrication capacity and production worldwide over time. As a result of increasing demand from semiconductor, solar and other manufacturers, availability of certain basic materials and supplies, such as raw wafers and silicon on insulator wafers, chemicals, gases, polysilicon, silicon wafers, ultra-pure metals, lead frames and molding compounds, and of subcontract services, like epitaxial growth, ion implantation and assembly of integrated circuits into packages, has been limited from time to time over the past several years, and could come in to short supply again if overall industry demand exceeds the supply of these materials and services in the future. We purchase materials and supplies from many suppliers, some of which are sole-sourced. If the availability of these materials and supplies is interrupted, we may not be able to find suitable replacements. In addition, from time to time natural disasters can lead to a shortage of some of the above materials due to disruption of the manufacturer's production. We devote continuous efforts to maintain availability of all required materials, supplies and subcontract services. However, we do not have long-term agreements providing for all of these materials, supplies and services, and shortages could occur as a result of capacity limitations or productio n constraints on suppliers that could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our production requirements. Environmental liabilities could force us to expend significant capital and incur substantial costs Various foreign and United States federal, state, and local government agencies impose a variety of environmental regulations on the storage, handling, use, discharge and disposal of certain chemicals, gases and other substances used or produced in the semiconductor manufa cturing process. There can be no assurance, however, that interpretation and enforcement of current or future environmental regulations will not impose costly requirements upon us. Any failure by us to not adequately control the storage, handling, use, discharge or disposal of regulated substances could result in fines, suspension of production, alteration of wafer fabrication processes and legal liability, which may materially adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. We may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights, which may impact our ability to compete effectively&nbsp ;We rely upon know-how, trade secrets, and patents to develop and maintain our competitive position. There can be no assurance that others will not develop or patent similar technology, reverse engineer our products or that the confidentiality agreements upon which we rely will be adequate to protect our interests. Moreover, the laws of foreign countries generally do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the United States, and we may encounter problems in protecting our proprietary rights in those foreign countries. Other companies have obtained patents covering a variety of semiconductor designs and processes, and we might be required to obtain licenses under some of these patents or be precluded from making and selling the infringing products, if these patents are found to be valid. There can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain licenses, if required, upo n commercially reasonable terms or at all. From time to time, we have received, and in the future may receive, notice of claims of infringement by our products on intellectual property rights of third parties. If one or more of our products or processes were determined to infringe on any such intellectual property rights of a third party, a court might enjoin us from further manufacture and/or sale of the affected products. We would then need to obtain a license from the holders of the rights and/or to re-engineer our products or processes in such a way as to avoid the alleged infringement. In the past, it has been common in the semiconductor industry for patent holders to offer licenses on reasonable terms and rates. Although the practice of offering licenses appear s to be generally continuing, in some situations, typically where the patent directly relates to a specific product or family of products, patent holders have refused to grant licenses. In any of those cases, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain any necessary license on commercially reasonable terms acceptable to us, if at all, or that we would be able to re-engineer our products or processes to avoid infringement. An adverse result in litigation arising from such a claim could involve an injunction to prevent the sales of a material portion of our products, 12&nb sp; the reduction or elimination of the value of related inventories and the assessment of a substantial monetary award for damages related to past sales, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may experience losses related to intellectual property indemnity claims We provide intellectual property indemnification for certain customers, distributors, suppliers and subcontractors for attorney fees and damages and costs awarded against these parties in certain circumstances in which our products are alleged to infringe third party intellectual property rights, including patents, registered trademarks and copyrights. In certain cases, there are limits on and exceptions to our potential liability for indemnification relating to intellectual property infringement claims. We cannot estimate the amount of potential future payments, if any, that we might be required to make as a result of these agreements. To date, we have not been required to pay significant amounts for intellectual property indemnification claims. However, there can be no assurance that we will not have significant financial exposure under those intellectual property indemnification obligations. We are a party to a purported class action securities litigation arising out of our past stock option granting practices the outcome of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows A purported class action securities lawsuit is pending against the Company, its former chief executive officer (now deceased), its former chief financial officer, and its former treasurer, in connection with the Company's past stock option grant practices. Although the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California has preliminarily approved a proposed settlement of this laws uit pursuant to which the Company paid $173 million into an escrow account, the settlement is still subject to a final hearing. In the event the Court does not approve the proposed settlement, the eventual outcome of the lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows for a particular period as well as the trading price for our securities. Litigation is also time-consuming, expensive and disruptive to our normal business operations, and outcomes are difficult to predict. The defense of this lawsuit has resulted and will continue to result in significant legal expenditures and diversion of our management's time and attention from business operations. For further discussion on legal matters see "Legal Proceedings" in Part I, Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Business interruptions from natural disasters could harm our business We operate our business in worldwide locations. Some of our facilities and those of our subcontractors are located in geologically unstable areas of the world and are susceptible to damage from natural disasters. In the event of a natural disaster, we may suffer a disruption in our operations which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our financial condition, operations and liquidity may be materially adversely affected in the event of a catastrophic loss for which we are self-insured We are primarily self-insured with respect to many of our commercial risks and exposures. Based on management's assessment and judgment, we have determined that it is generally more cost effective to self-insure these risks. The risks and exposures we self-insure include, but are not limited to, fire, property and casualty, natural disasters, product defects, political risk, general liability, theft, counterfeits, patent infringement, certain employment practice matters and medical benefits for many of our domestic (United States) employees. We also maintain insurance contracts with independent insurance companies that provide certain of our employees with health (medical and dental) benefits, worker's compensation coverage, long-term disability income coverage, life insurance coverage and fiduciary insurance coverage for employee and Company funds invested under the Employee Retirement Income and Security Act. In addition, we maintain officer and director liability coverage and certain property insurance contracts with independent insurance companies. Should there be catastrophic loss from events such as fires, explosions or earthquakes or other natural disasters, among many other risks, or adverse court or similar decisions in any area in which we are self-insured, our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity may be materially adversely affected. Limitations in manufacturing capacity or delays in lead-time for delivery of products could adversely affect our future growth opportunities and results of operations Our ability to successfully realize revenue growth relative to any future increase in customer demands for our products could be limited by our manufacturing capacity and other supply constraints. Our results of operations may be adversely affected if we fail to meet such increase in demand for our products without significantly increasing the lead-time required for our delivery of such products. During the past two quarters we have not had the manufacturing capacity to meet customer demand and we anticipate 13 that we will continue to lack such capacity for the foreseeable future. In addition, any significant increase in the lead-time for delivery of products may negatively affect our customer relationships, reputation as a dependable supplier of products and ability to obtain future design wins, while potentially increasing order cancellations, aged, unsaleable or otherwise unrealized backlog that no longer could serve as an indicator of future revenue, and the likelihood of our breach of supply agreement terms. Any one of the foregoing factors could negatively affect our future revenue growth and results of operations. We are subject to warranty claims and product liability We face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability suits in connection with reliability problems which may be experienced by our customers. Our products are used by varying industries which include the transportation and medical industries. Failure of our products to perform to specifications could lead to substantial damage to both the end product in which our device has been placed and to the user of such end product. If a product liability claim is brought against us, the cost of defending the claim could be significant and any adverse determination could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We manufacture and sell products into many global jurisdictions where our efforts to contractually limit liability for certain damages, including consequential, indirect and non-proximately caused damages may not be enforceable or may be found by a court to not apply in a particular situation. As we continue to partner with certain customers we may be required to accept increasing exposure for liability including product liability. We believe these relationships with key customers will continue to increase. We continue to attempt to structure our customer relationships to reduce such liability exposures. Damages for such liability claims could materially adversely impact the Company financially. Should we choose to not enter into such relationships, our revenues and financial operations could be materially adversely affecte d. We may be liable for additional production costs and lost revenues to certain customers with whom we have entered into customer supply agreements, if we are unable to provide a specific part at a certain quantity and product quality We enter into contracts with certain customers whereby we commit to supply quantities of specified parts at a predetermined scheduled delivery date. The number of such arrangements continues to increase as this practice becomes more commonplace. Should we be u nable to supply the customer with the specific part at the quantity and product quality desired on the scheduled delivery date, the customer may incur additional production costs. In addition, the customer may incur lost revenues due to a delay in receiving the parts necessary to have the end-product ready for sale to its customers or due to product quality issues which may arise. Under the customer supply agreements, we may be liable for direct additional production costs or lost revenues. If products were not shipped on time or were quality deficient, we may be liable for penalties and resulting damages. Such liability, should it arise, and/or our inability to meet these commitments to our customers may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition and could damage our relationship, reputation and goodwill with the affected customers. We may pursue acquisitions and investments that could harm our operating results and may disrupt our business We have made and will continue to consider making strategic business investments, alliances and acquisitions we consider necessary to gain access to key technologies that we believe will augment our existing technical capability and support our business model objectives. Acquisitions, alliances and investments involve risks and uncertainties that may unfavorably impact our future financial performance. If integration of our acquired businesses is not successful, we may not realize the potential benefits of an acquisi tion or suffer other adverse effects that we currently do not foresee. We must implement our technology systems in the acquired operations and effectively integrate the different cultures of acquired business organizations into our own. We may also need to enter new markets in which we have no or limited experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions. Any of the foregoing, and other factors, could harm our ability to achieve anticipated levels of profitability from acquired businesses or to realize other anticipated benefits of acquisitions. In addition, because acquisitions of high technology companies are inherently risky, no assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful and will not adversely af fect our business, operating results, or financial condition. If we fail to enter into future vendor managed inventory arrangements or fail to supply the specific product or quantity under such arrangements, the results of our operations and financial condition may be materially adversely impacted We enter into arrangements with certain original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs") and Electronic Manufacturing Services ("EMS") partners to consign quantities of certain products within close proxi mity of the OEMs and EMS partners' manufacturing location. The inventory is physically segregated at these locations and we retain title and risk of loss related to this inventory until such time as the OEM or EMS partner pulls the inventory for use in their manufacturing process. Once the inventory is pulled by the OEM or EMS partner, title and risk of loss pass to the customer, at which point we relieve inventory, recognize revenue and 14 the related cost of goods sold. The specific quantities to be consigned are based on a forecast provided by the OEM or EMS partner. Generally, the arrangements with the OEMs and EMS partners provide for transfer of title and risk of loss once product has been consigned for a certain length of time. We believe these arrangements will continue to grow in terms of number of customers and products and will increase in proportion to consolidated net revenues. It is our belief that revenues from such arrangement will eventually become significant to consolidated net revenues. Should we be unable or unwilling to enter into such agreements as requested by OEMs or EMS partners, our results of operations may be materially adversely impacted. Should we be unab le to supply the specific product and quantity needed by the OEM or EMS partner as reflected in their forecast, we may be liable for damages, including but not limited to, lost revenues and increased production costs which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Should we supply product in excess of the OEMs or EMS partners actual usage, any inventory not consumed may become excess or obsolete which would result in an inventory write off that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Our stock price may be volatile The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly. In the future, the market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations due to general economic and market conditions and in response to quarter-to-quarter variations including but not limited to the following: • our anticipated or actual res ult of operations; • announcements or introductions of new products by us or our competitors; • < font style="font-family:inherit;font-size:10pt;">anticipated or actual operating results of our customers, peers or competitors; • technological innovations or setbacks by us or our competitors; • conditions in our four major markets; • the commencement or outcome of litigation or governmental investigations; • change in ratings and estimates of our performance by securities analysts; • announcements of merger or acquisition transactions; • dividend changes; • changes in our capital structure, including any decision we make in regard to the repurchase of our common stock; • management changes; • supply constraints;• semiconductor industry cyclicality;• our inclusion in certain stock indices,• our ability to maintain compliance with the SEC reporting requirements; and • other events or factors beyond our co ntrol. The stock market in recent years has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of many high technology companies, particularly semiconductor companies. In some instances, these fluctuations appear to have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the affected companies. Any such fluctuation could harm the market price of our common stock. Our ability to service our debt obligations, including $300 million of senior unsecured notes, requires sufficient cash flow from our future operationsIn June 2010, the Company issued $300 million in senior, unsecured debt due in 2013 with an effective interest rate of 3.49%. Interest is payable semi-annually on December 14 and June 14. The debt indenture includes covenants that limit the Company's ability to grant liens on its facilities and to enter into sale and leaseback transactions, which could limit the Company's ability to secure debt funding in the future, if needed. In circumstances involving a change of control of the Company followed by a downgrade of the rating of the Company's notes, the Company wou ld be required to make an offer to repurchase these notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest. The Company's ability to repurchase the notes in such events may be limited by the Company's then-available financial resources or by the terms of other agreements to which the Company is a party. Although the Company currently has the funds necessary to retire this debt, funds might not be available to repay the notes when they come due in the future. If the Company fails to pay interest when due, or to repay the notes when due or materially breaches other loan covenants, it would constitute an event of default under the indenture governing the notes which, in turn, may also constitute an event of defaul t under other obligations of the Company. Any event of default under the indenture or other obligations of the Company and any additional obligations and restrictions imposed as a result thereof could negatively impact our financial results.15 Our financial results may be adversely affected by increased tax rates and exposure to additional tax liabilitiesA number of factors may increase our future effective tax rates, including: • the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed;• recent changes in our global structure that involve an increased investment in technology outside of the United States to better align asset ownership and business functions with revenues and profits; • the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; • changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; • adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; • increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including impairments of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; • changes in available tax credits; • changes in share-based compensation; • changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws, and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; and • the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings for which we have not previously provided for U.S. taxes. We are subject to taxation in various countries and jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required to determine tax liabilities on a worldwide basis. Our future tax rates could be affected by various changes in the composition of earnings in countries with different tax rates, changes in our global structure, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in the tax laws. Any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could reduce net income for future periods and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Potential Income Tax Liabilities under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code and Other Payroll Taxes In the past, a number of our outstanding stock option awards were granted at exercise prices below the fair market value of our stock on the appropriate accounting measurement date. Many of these options are potentially subject to option holder excise tax under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code (and, as applicable, similar excise taxes under state law or foreign law). In fiscal year 2008, we took action to cure certain options from exposure under Section 409A. However, there can be no assurance that su ch action cured all potential circumstances in which Section 409A would apply. Should it be determined that excise taxes under Section 409A were to apply and we decide to reimburse option holders for such taxes, our results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Also we have determined that certain payroll taxes, interest and penalties may apply under various sections of the Internal Revenue Code, various state tax statutes, and tax statutes in various foreign jurisdictions. Maxim has reviewed these potential liabilities and accrued the estimated probable amount of the liability. There can be no assurance that our accruals covered all potential circumstances in which additional payroll taxes, interest and penalties would apply. Should it be found that additional payroll taxes, interest and penalties would apply, our results of operations may be materially adversely affected. We may be materially adversely affected by currency fluctuations or changes in trade policies We conduct our manufacturing and other operations in various worldwide locations. A portion of operating costs and expenses at foreign locations are paid in local currencies. Many of the materials used in our products and much of the manufacturing process for our products are supplied by foreign companies or by our foreign operations, such as our test operations in the Philippines and Thailand. Approximately 85%, 82% and 81% of our net revenues in fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, were shipped to foreign locations. Accordingly, both manufacturing and sales of our products may be adversely affected by political or economic conditions abroad. In addition, various forms of protectionist trade legislation are routinely proposed in the United States and certain foreign countries. A change in current tariff structures or other trade policies could adversely affect our foreign manufacturing or marketing strategies. Currency exchange fluctuations could also decrease revenue and increase our operating costs and the cost of components manufactured abroad, and the cost of our products to foreign customers or decrea se the costs of products from our foreign competitors. We are subject to U.S. Customs and Export Regulations We are subject to U.S. Customs and Export Regulations, including U.S. International Traffic and Arms Regulations and similar laws, which collectively control import, export and sale of technologies by U.S. companies. Failure to comply with such regulations may result in civil and criminal enforcement, including monetary fines and possible injunctions against shipment of product, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. 16 If we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel, our business may be harmed< /font> Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our chief executive officer, our other executive officers, and key management and technical personnel, particularly our experienced engineers and business unit managers, and on our ability to continue to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel. The loss of the services of one or several of our executive officers could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, there could be a material adverse effect on us should the turnover rates for engineers and other key personnel increase significantly or should we be unable to continue to attract, motivate and retain qualified personnel. Should we lose an engineer who is key to a project's completion during the course of a particular pr oject, the project's completion may be delayed. This delay could negatively affect customer relationships and goodwill and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our certificate of incorporation contains certain anti-takeover provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a hostile change in control of our Company Our certificate of incorporation permits our Board of Directors to authorize the issuance of up to 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determin e the rights, preferences and privileges and restrictions applicable to such shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders. Any such issuance might discourage, delay or prevent a hostile change in control of our Company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 