ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent to our business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect us are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair our business operations. This Report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flow could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our common stock could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. The Company’s business may be adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally. Negative developments in the financial services industry since 2008 resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general and a related general economic recession. In addition, as a consequence of the U.S. recession, businesses across a wide range of industries faced serious difficulties due to the decrease in consumer spending, reduced consumer confidence brought on by deflated home prices, among other things, and reduced liquidity in the credit markets. Unemployment also increased significantly during this period. Some of these circumstances continued into 2015 and continue to be an issue today. As a result of these financial and economic crises, many lending institutions, including the Bank, experienced, in recent years, declines in the performance of their loans, including construction, commercial real estate loans, and other commercial and consumer loans. Moreover, competition among depository institutions for core deposits and quality loans increased significantly. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages declined. Bank and bank holding company stock prices were negatively affected, and the ability of bank and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets has been more difficult compared to previous periods. As a result, bank regulatory agencies have been and are expected to continue to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the issuance of formal or informal enforcement actions or orders. The impact of new legislation in response to these developments may negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance or our stock price. In addition, further negative market developments, including another recession, may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provision for credit losses. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial services industry. 20 Risks Related to Our Regulatory Environment. We are subject to extensive regulation and supervision under federal and state laws and regulations. Some of the significant federal and state banking regulations that affect us are described in this report at Part I, Item 1, “Supervision and Regulation.” These regulations, along with the existing tax, accounting, securities, insurance, and monetary laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies and interpretations control the methods by which financial institutions conduct business, implement strategic initiatives and tax compliance, and govern financial reporting and disclosures. These laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies and interpretations are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time. Changes in regulations resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act or any new regulations may affect our businesses. The market and economic conditions over the past several years have led to legislation and numerous and continuing proposals for changes in the regulation of the banking and financial services industry, including significant additional legislation and regulation in the U.S. and abroad. The Dodd-Frank Act enacted sweeping changes in the supervision and regulation of the financial industry designed to provide for greater oversight of financial industry participants, reduce risk in banking practices and in securities and derivatives trading, enhance public company corporate governance practices and executive compensation disclosures, and provide for greater protections to individual consumers and investors. Certain elements of the Dodd-Frank Act became effective immediately, while the details of some provisions remain subject to implementing regulations that are yet to be adopted by various applicable regulatory agencies. The ultimate impact that the Dodd-Frank Act will have on our Company, the financial services industry and the economy cannot be known until all such implementing regulations called for under the Dodd-Frank Act have been finalized and implemented. The Dodd-Frank Act may impact the manner in which the Company markets its products and services, manages its business and operations and interactions with regulators, all of which, while not currently anticipated, could materially impact the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that have or may impact the Company’s business include, but are not limited to: regulatory oversight of compensation, the imposition of capital requirements on holding companies and, to a lesser extent, greater oversight over derivatives trading and restrictions on proprietary trading. There is also increased regulatory scrutiny (and related compliance costs). These include but are not limited to the Bank's oversight by the CFPB. Additionally, the Company is monitoring regulatory developments related to the “Volcker Rule” and their impact on community banks. In January 2014, the FRB, the OCC, the FDIC, the SEC and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission approved an interim final rule that exempts trust-preferred securities (TruPS) that back collateralized debt obligations (CDOs) held by qualifying community banks from the application of some portions of the Volcker Rule. The final Volcker Rule, approved by regulators in December 2013, generally prohibited banking entities from engaging in the short-term proprietary trading of securities and derivatives for their own account and barred them from having certain relationships with hedge funds or private equity funds. Included within the range of funds covered by the regulations were TruPS CDOs. Application of the Volcker Rule to TruPS CDOs would have forced many banks, including many community banks, to treat the TruPS CDO holdings as impaired and write down the value or sell the holdings entirely. The American Bankers Association filed a lawsuit in 2013 to block the provision from going into effect. In addition, some lawmakers also called on the regulators to revise the rule to minimize the effect on community banks. On January 14, 2014, the regulators announced the first revision to the Volcker Rule in the form of an interim final rule. The revision will allow some smaller banks to retain their interests in TruPS CDOs, though there are conditions to the exemption. The interim final rule exemption only applies when all of the following requirements are met: · The TruPS CDOs have been issued by banks with less than $15 billion in assets; 21 · The TruPS CDOs have been established before May 19, 2010; and · The bank must have acquired the TruPS CDOs prior to December 10, 2013. The Company did not own any TruPS CDOs as of and during the twelve months ended December 31, 2015 and 2014. To the extent the Dodd-Frank Act and the related extensive rules and regulations impacts the operations, financial condition, liquidity and capital requirements of unaffiliated financial institutions with whom the Company transacts business, those institutions may seek to pass on increased costs, reduce their capacity to transact, or otherwise present inefficiencies in their interactions with our Company. The Bank is subject to credit risk. There are inherent risks associated with our lending activities. These risks include, among other things, the impact of changes in interest rates and changes in the economic conditions in the markets where we operate as well as those across the United States and abroad. Increases in interest rates and/or weakening economic conditions could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing these loans. We are also subject to various laws and regulations that affect our lending activities. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to regulatory enforcement action that could result in the assessment of significant civil money penalties against us. The Bank’s loans are principally concentrated in certain areas of Maine and adverse economic conditions in those markets could adversely affect our operations. Our success is dependent to a significant extent upon general economic conditions in the United States and, in particular, the local economies of downeast, midcoast and central Maine, the primary markets served by us. We are particularly exposed to real estate and general economic factors in the downeast, midcoast and central areas of Maine, as most of our loan portfolio is concentrated among borrowers in these markets. Furthermore, because a substantial portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate in these areas, the value of the associated collateral is also subject to regional real estate market conditions. A number of our hospitality and other customers rely upon a high number of visits from tourists and vacationers to Acadia National Park as a significant part of their businesses. Prolonged interruptions or shutdowns in the operation of tourist destination sites within our market areas could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Interest rate volatility could significantly reduce the Company’s profitability. The Bank’s earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon its net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-bearing assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Company’s control, including general economic conditions, demand for loans, securities and deposits, and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities, and (iii) the average duration of our loans and securities that are collateralized by mortgages. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore 22 earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. If interest rates decline, the Bank’s higher-rate loans and investments may be subject to prepayment risk, which could negatively impact its net interest margin. Conversely, if interest rates increase, the Bank’s loans and investment securities may be subject to extension risk, which could negatively impact its net interest margin as well. Declines in fair value may adversely impact Bank’s investment securities portfolio. The Company may be required to record other-than-temporary impairment charges on its investment securities if they suffer a decline in value that is considered other-than-temporary. Numerous factors, including, municipal bond defaults, lack of liquidity for re-sales of certain investment securities, or adverse actions by regulators, could have a negative effect on the Company’s securities portfolio in future periods. The Company may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital in the future, but capital may not be available when it is needed. The Company is required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support its operations. In addition, the Company may elect to raise additional capital to support its business or to finance acquisitions, if any, or the Company may otherwise elect to raise additional capital. The Company’s ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions, and a number of other factors, many of which are outside the Company’s control, and on its financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot be assured of our Company’s ability to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If the Company cannot raise additional capital when needed, or on reasonable terms, it may have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. The short-term and long-term impact of the changing regulatory capital requirements and new capital rules is unknown. In 2013, the FRB, along with other federal agencies, issued final rules implementing Basel III capital standards and establishing the minimum capital requirements for banks and bank holding companies required under the Dodd-Frank Act. These rules, which became effective on January 1, 2015, refine the definition of what constitutes “capital” for purposes of calculating these ratios. The new minimum capital requirements to be considered “adequately capitalized” are: (i) a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 to risk-based assets capital ratio of 6.0%, which was increased from 4.0%; (iii) a total capital ratio of 8.0%, which was unchanged from the previous rules; and (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4.0%. The final rule also established a “capital conservation buffer” of 2.5% above the new regulatory minimum capital ratios to be considered “adequately capitalized”, and when fully effective in 2019, will result in the following minimum capital ratios: (a) a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 7.0%; (b) a Tier 1 to risk-based assets capital ratio of 8.5%; and (c) a total capital ratio of 10.5%. The new capital conservation buffer requirement will be phased in beginning in January 2016 at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets and will increase each year until fully implemented in January 2019. If an institution does not meet or exceed these minimum capital ratios it will be subject to limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases, and paying discretionary bonuses if its capital level falls below the “adequately capitalized” ratios plus the buffer amount. These limitations will establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that can be utilized for such activities. 23 The application of more stringent capital requirements for the Company could, among other things, result in lower returns on equity, require the raising of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions such as a prohibition on the payment of dividends or on the repurchase shares, if the Company were unable to comply with such requirements. Furthermore, the imposition of liquidity requirements in connection with the implementation of Basel III could result in the Company having to restructure its business models or increase its holdings of liquid assets. Implementation of changes in asset risk weightings for risk-based capital calculations, including items included or deducted in calculating regulatory capital or additional capital conservation buffers could result in the Company modifying its business strategy. The Bank may not be able to meet its cash flow needs on a timely basis at a reasonable cost, and its cost of funds for banking operations may significantly increase as a result of general economic conditions, interest rates, and competitive pressures. Liquidity is the ability to meet cash flow needs on a timely basis and at a reasonable cost. The liquidity of the Bank is used to make loans and to repay deposit and borrowing liabilities as they become due, or are demanded by customers and creditors. Many factors affect the Bank’s ability to meet liquidity needs, including variations in the markets served by its network of offices, its mix of assets and liabilities, reputation and standing in the marketplace, and general economic conditions. The Bank’s primary source of funding is retail deposits, gathered throughout its network of fifteen banking offices. Wholesale funding sources principally consist of secured borrowing lines from the FHLB of Boston of which it is a member, secured borrowing lines from the FRB of Boston, and certificates of deposit obtained from the national market. The Bank’s securities and loan portfolios provide a source of contingent liquidity that could be accessed in a reasonable time period through sales. Significant changes in general economic conditions, market interest rates, competitive pressures or otherwise, could cause the Bank’s deposits to decrease relative to overall banking operations, and it would have to rely more heavily on brokered funds and borrowings in the future, which are typically more expensive than deposits. Changes in economic conditions, including consumer savings habits and availability or access to the brokered deposit market could potentially have a significant impact on the Bank’s liquidity position, which in turn could materially impact its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Company is subject to a variety of operational risks, including reputational risk, legal risk, and compliance risk, and the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, which may adversely affect the Company’s business and results of operations. The Company is exposed to many types of operational risks, including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, and unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or record-keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems. If personal, non-public, confidential, or proprietary information of customers in our possession were to be mishandled or misused, we could suffer significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage, and financial loss. Because the nature of the financial services business involves a high volume of transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully rectified. The Company’s necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process transactions and its large transaction volume may further increase the risk that technical flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. The Company may also be subject to disruptions 24 of its operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond its control (i.e., computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages, natural disaster, disease pandemics, or other damage to property or physical assets), which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or liability. The Company is further exposed to the risk that its external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as we are) and to the risk that our (or our vendors’) business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. The occurrence of any of these risks could result in a diminished ability to operate our business (i.e., by requiring us to expend significant resources to correct the defect), as well as potential liability to clients, reputational damage, and regulatory intervention. Disruptions to the Company’s information systems and security breaches could adversely affect its business and reputation. In the ordinary course of business, the Company relies on electronic communications and information systems to conduct its businesses and to store sensitive data, including financial information regarding its customers. The integrity of information systems are under significant threat from cyber-attacks by third parties, including through coordinated attacks sponsored by foreign nations and criminal organizations to disrupt business operations and other compromises to data and systems for political or criminal purposes. The Company employs an in-depth, layered, defense approach that leverages people, processes and technology to manage and maintain cyber security controls. Notwithstanding the strength of our defensive measures, the threat from cyber attacks is severe, attacks are sophisticated and attackers respond rapidly to changes in defensive measures. Cyber security risks may also occur with the Company’s third-party service providers, and may interfere with their ability to fulfill their contractual obligations to us, with additional potential for financial loss or liability that could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. The Company offers its customers the ability to bank remotely and provide other technology based products and services, which services include the secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet and other remote channels. To the extent that the Company’s customers’ systems are not secure or are otherwise compromised, its network could be vulnerable to unauthorized access, malicious software, phishing schemes and other security breaches. To the extent that the Company’ activities or the activities of its clients or third-party service providers involve the storage and transmission of confidential information, security breaches and malicious software could expose the Company to claims, regulatory scrutiny, litigation and other possible liabilities. While to date the Company has not experienced a significant compromise, significant data loss or material financial losses related to cyber security attacks, the Company’s systems and those of its clients and third-party service providers are under constant threat and we may experience a significant event in the future. The Company may suffer material financial losses related to these risks in the future or it may be subject to liability for compromises to its client or third-party service provider systems. Any such losses or liabilities could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition or results of operations, and could expose us to reputation risk, the loss of client business, increased operational costs, as well as additional regulatory scrutiny, possible litigation, and related financial liability. These risks also include possible business interruption, including the inability to access critical information and systems. The Company continually encounters technological change. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. The Company’s future success depends, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in 25 technological improvements. The Company may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. The Company is subject to possible claims and litigation pertaining to fiduciary responsibilities. From time to time, customers make claims and take legal action pertaining to the Company’s performance of its fiduciary responsibilities. Whether customer claims and legal action related to our performance of our fiduciary responsibilities are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to us, they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of our Company and our products and services as well as impact customer demand for our products and services. Strong competition within our markets may significantly impact the Company’s profitability. The Company competes with an ever-increasing array of financial service providers. See the section entitled “Competition” of Item 1 of this Form 10-K for additional information about our competitors. Competition from nationwide banks, as well as local institutions, continues to mount in our markets. Regional, national and international competitors have far greater assets and capitalization than we do and have greater access to capital markets and can offer a broader array of financial services than we can. For example, consumers can maintain funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits in brokerage accounts or mutual funds. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as “disintermediation,” could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. Further, many of our competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Additionally, due to their size, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than we can. To compete, the Company focuses on quality customer service, making decisions at the local level, maintaining long-term customer relationships, building customer loyalty, and providing products and services designed to address the specific needs of customers. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect the Company’s growth and profitability. Tax law changes may adversely affect the Company’s net income, effective tax rate, and its overall results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s financial performance is impacted by federal and state tax laws. Given the current economic and political environment, and ongoing state budgetary pressures, the enactment of new federal or state tax legislation may occur. The enactment of such legislation, or changes in the interpretation of existing law, including provisions impacting tax rates, apportionment, consolidation or combination, income, expenses, and credits, may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented. The Company regularly reviews and updates its internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system are met. 26 The preparation of the Company’s financial statements requires the use of estimates that could significantly vary from actual results. The preparation of the company’s consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make significant estimates that affect the financial statements. The most critical estimate is the allowance for loan losses. Due to the inherent nature of estimates, the Company cannot provide absolute assurance that it will not significantly increase the allowance for loan losses and/or sustain credit losses that are significantly higher than provided for in the allowance. The Company’s access to funds from subsidiaries may be restricted. Bar Harbor Bankshares is a separate and distinct legal entity from our Bank and nonbanking subsidiaries. Bar Harbor Bankshares depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its banking and nonbanking subsidiaries to fund dividend payments on its common stock and to fund all payments on its other obligations. The Company’s subsidiaries are subject to laws that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to Bar Harbor Bankshares, which could impede access to funds it needs to make payments on its obligations or dividend payments. The Company may be unable to attract and retain key personnel. The Company’s success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain key personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry can be intense and the Company and its subsidiaries may not be able to hire or retain the key personnel that it depends upon for success. In addition, the Bank’s rural geographic marketplace, combined with relatively expensive real estate purchase prices within the area of the Bank’s principal office location in Bar Harbor, Maine, create additional risks for the Company and the Bank’s ability to attract and retain key personnel. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of the our key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, knowledge of the markets in which we operate, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. To the extent that the Company acquires other companies, its business may be negatively impacted by certain risks inherent with such acquisitions. To the extent that the Company may acquire other financial services companies or assets in the future, its business may be negatively impacted by certain risks inherent with such acquisitions. These risks include, but are not limited to, the following: · the risk that the acquired business or assets will not perform in accordance with the Company’s expectations; · the risk that difficulties will arise in connection with the integration of the operations of the acquired business with the operations of our businesses; · the risk that we will divert our attention from other aspects of our existing business; · the risk that we may lose key employees of the combined business; and · the risks associated with entering into geographic and product markets in which we have limited or no direct prior experience. The Bank is exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which it takes title. In the course of our business, the Bank may own or foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a 27 governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The cost associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, and other external events could significantly impact the Company’s business and the business of its customers. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on our Company’s ability to conduct business. Such events could affect the stability of our borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause us to incur additional expenses. In particular, such events may have a particularly negative impact upon the business of our customers who are engaged in the hospitality and natural resource dependent industries in our market area, which could have a direct negative impact on our Company’s business and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 