ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to the Company In its normal course of business, the Company is subject to many risks and uncertainties inherent with providing banking and financial services. Although the Company continually seeks ways to manage these risks, and has established programs and procedures to ensure controls are in place and operating effectively, the Company ultimately cannot predict the future. Actual results may differ materially from the Company’s expectations due to certain risks and uncertainties. The following discussion sets forth the most significant risk factors that the Company believes could cause its actual future results to differ materially from expected results. The risks and uncertainties discussed below are not all inclusive. Additional risks and uncertainties that the Company is unaware of, or that it currently deems immaterial, may also become important factors relating to the Company’s future operating results and financial condition. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected the banking and financial services industry. Dramatic declines in the national housing market since 2008, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities as well as major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative and cash securities, in turn, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. In particular, the Company may face the following risks in connection with these events: The Company expects to face increased regulation of the banking and financial services industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase the Company’s costs and limit its ability to pursue business opportunities. Market developments may affect customer confidence levels and may cause increases in loan delinquencies and default rates, which the Company expects could impact the Bank’s charge-offs and provision for loan losses. Market developments may affect the Bank’s securities portfolio by causing other-than-temporary impairments, prompting write-downs and securities losses. The Company’s and the Bank’s ability to borrow from other financial institutions or to access the debt or equity capital markets on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations. Competition in banking and financial services industry could intensify as a result of the increasing consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market conditions. The Bank may be required to pay significantly higher premiums to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the "FDIC") because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. The Bank’s allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover loan losses. A significant source of risk for the Company arises from the possibility that losses will be sustained because borrowers, guarantors and related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loan agreements. Most loans originated by the Bank are secured, but some loans are unsecured based upon management’s evaluation of the creditworthiness of the borrowers. With respect to secured loans, the collateral securing the repayment of these loans principally includes a wide variety of real estate, and to a lesser extent personal property, either of which may be insufficient to cover the obligations owed under such loans. Collateral values and the financial performance of borrowers may be adversely affected by changes in prevailing economic, environmental and other conditions, including declines in the value of real estate, changes in interest rates and debt service levels, changes in oil and gas prices, changes in monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government, widespread disease, terrorist activity, environmental contamination and other external events, which are beyond the control of the Bank. In addition, collateral appraisals that are out of date or that do not meet industry recognized standards might create the impression that a loan is adequately collateralized when in fact it is not. Although the Bank may acquire any real estate or other assets that secure defaulted loans through foreclosures or other similar remedies, the amounts owed under the defaulted loans may exceed the value of the assets acquired. The Bank has adopted underwriting and credit monitoring policies and procedures, including the establishment and ongoing review of the allowance for loan losses and review of borrower financial statements and collateral appraisals, which management believes are appropriate to mitigate the risk of loss by assessing the likelihood of borrower non-performance and the value of available collateral. The Bank also manages credit risk by diversifying its loan portfolio. An ongoing independent review, subsequent to management’s review, of individual credits is performed by an independent loan review function, which reports to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. However, such policies and procedures have limitations, including judgment errors in management’s risk analysis, and may not prevent unexpected losses that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Bank’s loans are principally concentrated in certain areas of Maine and adverse economic conditions in those markets could adversely affect the Company’s operations. The Company's success is dependent to a significant extent upon general economic conditions in the United States and, in particular, the local economies of downeast and midcoast Maine, the primary markets served by the Bank. The Bank is particularly exposed to real estate and economic factors in the downeast and midcoast areas of Maine, as most of its loan portfolio is concentrated among borrowers in these markets. Furthermore, because a substantial portion of the Bank’s loan portfolio is secured by real estate in these areas, the value of the associated collateral is also subject to regional real estate market conditions. A continuing or deepening economic recession in the markets served by the Bank, and the nation as a whole, could negatively impact household and corporate incomes. This impact could lead to decreased loan demand and increase the number of borrowers who fail to pay the Bank interest or principal on their loans, and accordingly, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. Federal and state governments could pass legislation responsive to current credit conditions, which could cause the Bank to experience higher credit losses. The Company could experience higher credit losses because of federal or state legislation or regulatory action that reduces the amount the Bank’s borrowers are otherwise contractually required to pay under existing loan contracts. Also, the Company could experience higher credit losses because of federal or state legislation or regulatory action that limits the Bank’s ability to foreclose on property or other collateral or makes foreclosure less economically feasible. Interest rate volatility could significantly reduce the Company’s profitability. The Company’s earnings largely depend on the relationship between the yield on its earning assets, primarily loans and investment securities, and the cost of funds, primarily deposits and borrowings. This relationship, commonly known as the net interest margin, is susceptible to significant fluctuation and is affected by economic and competitive factors that influence the yields and rates, and the volume and mix of the Bank’s interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities. Interest rate risk can be defined as an exposure to movement in interest rates that could have an adverse impact on the Bank's net interest income. Interest rate risk arises from the imbalance in the re-pricing, maturity and/or cash flow characteristics of assets and liabilities. The Company is subject to interest rate risk to the degree that its interest bearing liabilities re-price or mature more slowly or more rapidly or on a different basis than its interest earning assets. Significant fluctuations in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. The Bank's interest rate risk measurement and management techniques incorporate the re-pricing and cash flow attributes of its balance sheet and off-balance sheet instruments as they relate to current and potential changes in interest rates. The level of interest rate risk, measured in terms of the potential future effect on net interest income, is determined through the use of modeling and other techniques under multiple interest rate scenarios. Management's objectives are to measure, monitor and develop strategies in response to the interest rate risk profile inherent in the Bank's balance sheet, in order to preserve the sensitivity of net interest income to actual or potential changes in interest rates. The Company is exposed to a variety of operational risks that could result in significant financial losses. The Company is exposed to many types of operational risk, including reputation risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or record-keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems. Negative public opinion can result from the Company’s actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance and acquisitions, and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect the Company’s ability to attract and keep customers and can expose it to litigation and regulatory action. Given the volume of transactions at the Company, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully rectified. The Company’s necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process its transaction volumes may further increase the risk that technical system flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. The Company may also be subject to disruptions of its operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond its control (for example, computer viruses or electrical telecommunication outages), which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or liability. The Company is further exposed to the risk that its external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as is the Company) and to the risk that the Company’s (or its vendors’) business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. The Company regularly assesses the level of operational risk throughout the organization and has established systems of internal controls that provide for timely and accurate information. Testing of the operating effectiveness of these control systems is performed regularly. While not providing absolute assurance, these systems of internal controls have been designed to manage operational risks at appropriate, cost-effective levels. Procedures exist that are designed to ensure policies relating to conduct, ethics, and business practices are followed. From time to time losses from operational risk may occur, including the effects of operational errors. Such losses are recorded as non-interest expense. While the Company continually monitors and improves its system of internal controls, data processing systems, and corporate-wide risk management processes and procedures, there can be no assurances that future losses arising from operational risk will not occur and have a material impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. The Company may not be able to meet its cash flow needs on a timely basis at a reasonable cost, and its cost of funds for banking operations may significantly increase as a result of general economic conditions, interest rates and competitive pressures. Liquidity is the ability to meet cash flow needs on a timely basis and at a reasonable cost. The liquidity of the Bank is used to make loans and to repay deposit and borrowing liabilities as they become due, or are demanded by customers and creditors. Many factors affect the Bank’s ability to meet liquidity needs, including variations in the markets served by its network of offices, its mix of assets and liabilities, reputation and standing in the marketplace, and general economic conditions. The Bank’s primary source of funding is retail deposits, gathered throughout its network of twelve banking offices. Wholesale funding sources principally consist of secured borrowing lines from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston of which it is a member, secured borrowing lines from the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, and brokered certificates of deposit obtained from the national market. The Bank’s securities and loan portfolios provide a source of contingent liquidity that could be accessed in a reasonable time period through sales. Significant changes in general economic conditions, market interest rates, competitive pressures or otherwise, could cause the Bank’s deposits to decrease relative to overall banking operations, and it would have to rely more heavily on brokered funds and borrowings in the future, which are typically more expensive than deposits. The Bank actively manages its liquidity position through target ratios established under its Asset Liability Management Policy. Continual monitoring of these ratios, both historical and through forecasts under multiple rate scenarios, allows the Bank to employ strategies necessary to maintain adequate liquidity. Changes in economic conditions, including consumer savings habits and availability or access to the brokered deposit market could potentially have a significant impact on the Company’s liquidity position, which in turn could materially impact its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. For further information about the Company’s liquidity position, refer below in this Report to Part II, Item 7, "Liquidity Risk." Declines in value may adversely impact the investment securities portfolio. The Bank may be required to record other-than-temporary impairment charges on its investment securities if they suffer a decline in value that is considered other-than-temporary. Numerous factors, including collateral deterioration underlying certain private label mortgage-backed securities, lack of liquidity for re-sales of certain investment securities, absence of reliable pricing information for certain investment securities, adverse changes in business climate, adverse actions by regulators, or unanticipated changes in the competitive environment could have a negative effect the Bank’s securities portfolio in future periods. An other-than-temporary impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. A substantial decline in the value of the Bank’s Federal Home Loan Bank ("FHLB") of Boston common stock may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. As a requirement of membership in the FHLB of Boston, the Bank must own a minimum required amount of FHLB stock, calculated periodically based primarily on its level of borrowings from the FHLB. Borrowings from the FHLB represent the Bank’s primary source of short-term and long-term wholesale funding. Recent published reports indicate that certain member banks ("branches") of the FHLB system may be subject to accounting rules and asset quality risks that could result in materially lower regulatory capital levels. In an extreme situation, it is possible that the capitalization of a FHLB, including FHLB of Boston, could be substantially diminished or reduced to zero. Consequently, given that there is no market for the Bank’s FHLB of Boston common stock, Company management believes that there is a risk that its investment could be deemed other than temporarily impaired at some time in the future. If this occurs, it may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if the capitalization of FHLB of Boston is substantially diminished, the Bank’s liquidity may be adversely impaired if it is not able to obtain alternative sources of funding. The Company’s information technology systems may be vulnerable to attack or other technological failures, exposing the Company to significant loss. The Company depends upon data processing software, communication and information exchange on a variety of computing platforms and networks including the Internet. Despite instituted safeguards, the Company cannot be certain that all of its systems are entirely free from vulnerability to electronic attack or other technological difficulties or failures. The Company also relies on the services of a variety of third party vendors to meet its data processing and communication needs. If information security is breached or other technology difficulties or failures occur, information may be misappropriated, services and operations may be interrupted and the Company could be exposed to claims from customers, suffer loss of business and suffer loss of reputation in its marketplace. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Strong competition within the Company’s markets may significantly impact its profitability. The Company competes with an ever-increasing array of financial service providers. As a bank holding company and state-chartered financial institution, respectively, the Company and the Bank are subject to extensive regulation and supervision, including, in many cases, regulations that limit the type and scope of their activities. The non-bank financial service providers that compete with the Company and the Bank may not be subject to such extensive regulation, supervision, and tax burden. Competition from nationwide banks, as well as local institutions, continues to mount in the Company’s markets. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid changes in technology. In addition to improving customer services, effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. Furthermore, technological advances are likely to intensify competition by enabling more companies to provide financial resources. Accordingly, the Company’s future success will depend in part on its ability to address customer needs by using technology. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to develop new technology driven products and services, or be successful in marketing these products to its customers. Many of the Company’s competitors have far greater resources to invest in technology. Regional, national and international competitors have far greater assets and capitalization than the Company and have greater access to capital markets and can offer a broader array of financial services than the Company. No assurance can be given that the Company will continue to be able to compete effectively with other financial institutions in the future. Furthermore, developments increasing the nature or level of competition could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. For further information on competition, refer to Part I, Item 1, "Competition" and "Supervision and Regulation." The business of the Company and the Bank is highly regulated and impacted by monetary policy, limiting the manner in which the Company and the Bank may conduct its business and obtain financing. The Company and the Bank are subject to extensive regulation and supervision under federal and state laws and regulations. The restrictions imposed by such laws and regulations limit the manner in which the Company and the Bank conducts its business, undertakes new investments and activities, and obtains financing. These laws and regulations are designed primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance funds and consumers and not to benefit the Company’s shareholders. These laws and regulations may sometimes impose significant limitations on the Company’s operations. The more significant federal and state banking regulations that affect the Company and the Bank are described in this report at Part I, Item 1, "Supervision and Regulation." These regulations, along with the existing tax, accounting, securities, insurance, and monetary laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies and interpretations control the methods by which financial institutions conduct business, implement strategic initiatives and tax compliance, and govern financial reporting and disclosures. These laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies and interpretations are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time. The nature, extent, and timing of the adoption of significant new laws and regulations, or changes in or repeal of existing laws and regulations, or specific actions of regulators, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Furthermore, federal monetary policy, particularly as implemented through the Federal Reserve System, significantly affects credit risk and interest rate risk conditions for the Company, and any unfavorable change in these conditions could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. The preparation of the Company’s financial statements requires the use of estimates that could significantly vary from actual results. The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with U. S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make significant estimates that affect the financial statements. The most critical estimate is the allowance for loan losses. Due to the inherent nature of estimates, the Company cannot provide absolute assurance that it will not significantly increase the allowance for loan losses and/or sustain credit losses that are significantly higher than the provided allowance, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. For further information on the use of estimates, refer to this report at Part II, Item 7, "Application of Critical Accounting Policies." ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 