ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent to our business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect us are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair our business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flow could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our common stock could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. 19 When we say “we,” “us,” “our,” or the “Company,” we mean the Company on a consolidated basis with the Bank. Our business may be adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally. Negative developments in the financial services industry during 2008-2011 resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general and a related general economic recession. In addition, as a consequence of the recent U.S. recession, businesses across a wide range of industries faced serious difficulties due to the decrease in consumer spending, reduced consumer confidence brought on by deflated home prices, among other things, and reduced liquidity in the credit markets. Unemployment also increased significantly during this period. Many of these circumstances continued into 2012 and continue to be an issue today. As a result of these financial and economic crises, many lending institutions, including the Bank, experienced in recent years declines in the performance of their loans, including construction, commercial real estate loans, and other commercial and consumer loans. Moreover, competition among depository institutions for core deposits and quality loans increased significantly. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages declined and, even today, may continue to decline. Bank and bank holding company stock prices were negatively affected, and the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets has been more difficult compared to previous periods. As a result, bank regulatory agencies have been and are expected to continue to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the issuance of formal or informal enforcement actions or orders. The impact of new legislation in response to these developments may negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance or our stock price. In addition, further negative market developments, including another recession, may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provision for credit losses. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial services industry. Overall, during the past five years, the general business environment has had an adverse effect on our business, and although there have been recent signs of improvement, there can be no assurance that the environment will continue to improve in the near or long term. Until economic conditions further improve, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our business is highly regulated and impacted by federal monetary policy, limiting the manner in which we may conduct business and obtain financing. We are subject to extensive regulation and supervision under federal and state laws and regulations. The restrictions imposed by such laws and regulations limit the manner in which we conduct our business, undertake new investments and activities, and obtain financing. These laws and regulations are designed primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance funds and consumers and not to benefit our shareholders. These laws and regulations may sometimes impose significant limitations on our operations. The more significant federal and state banking regulations that affect the us are described in this report at Part I, Item 1, “Supervision and Regulation.” These regulations, along with the existing tax, accounting, securities, insurance, and monetary laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies and interpretations control the methods by which financial institutions conduct business, implement strategic 20 initiatives and tax compliance, and govern financial reporting and disclosures. These laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies and interpretations are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time. Furthermore, federal monetary policy, particularly as implemented through the Federal Reserve System, significantly affects credit risk and interest rate risk conditions for us. Recent legislative and regulatory initiatives have imposed restrictions and requirements on financial institutions that could have an adverse effect on our business. The United States Congress, the Treasury Department, and the FDIC have taken several steps over the past several years to support the financial services industry and establish programs enhancing the liquidity available to financial institutions and increasing insurance available on bank deposits. These programs have provided an important source of support to many financial institutions. Few provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act were effective immediately with various provisions becoming effective in stages. Many of the rules required to be implanted by governmental agencies still have not been fully promulgated or implemented. These rules have or expected to increase regulation of the financial services industry and impose restrictions on the ability of firms within the industry to conduct business consistent with historical practices. We cannot predict the substance or impact of pending or future legislation or regulation. Compliance with such legislation or regulation may, among other effects, significantly increase our costs, limit our product offerings and operating flexibility, require significant adjustment in our internal business processes, and possibly require us to maintain our regulatory capital at levels above historical practices. There can be no assurance that the Dodd-Frank Act and other government programs will stabilize or improve the U.S. Financial System. There can also be no assurance as to the actual impact that the Dodd-Frank Act and other programs will continue to have on the financial markets, including credit availability. The failure of the Dodd-Frank Act or other programs to stabilize or improve the financial markets and another economic or financial market downturn could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit, or the trading price of our voting common stock. We are subject to credit risk. There are inherent risks associated with our lending activities. These risks include, among other things, the impact of changes in interest rates and changes in the economic conditions in the markets where we operate as well as those across the United States and abroad. Increases in interest rates and/or weakening economic conditions could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing these loans. We are also subject to various laws and regulations that affect our lending activities. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to regulatory enforcement action that could result in the assessment of significant civil money penalties against us. We seek to mitigate the risks inherent in our loan portfolio by adhering to specific underwriting practices. Although we believe that our underwriting criteria are appropriate for the various kinds of loans we make, we may incur losses on loans that meet our underwriting criteria, and these losses may exceed the amounts set aside as reserves in our allowance for loan losses. 21 We have adopted underwriting and credit monitoring policies and procedures, including the establishment and ongoing review of the allowance for loan losses and review of borrower financial statements and collateral appraisals, which management believes are appropriate to mitigate the risk of loss by assessing the likelihood of borrower non-performance and the value of available collateral. We also manage credit risk by diversifying our loan portfolio. An ongoing independent review, subsequent to management’s review, of individual credits is performed by an independent loan review function, which reports to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. The Bank’s loans are principally concentrated in certain areas of Maine and adverse economic conditions in those markets could adversely affect our operations. Our success is dependent to a significant extent upon general economic conditions in the United States and, in particular, the local economies of downeast, midcoast and central Maine, the primary markets served by us. We are particularly exposed to real estate and economic factors in the downeast, midcoast and central areas of Maine, as most of its loan portfolio is concentrated among borrowers in these markets. Furthermore, because a substantial portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate in these areas, the value of the associated collateral is also subject to regional real estate market conditions. Interest rate volatility could significantly reduce our profitability. Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-bearing assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, demand for loans, securities and deposits, and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities, and (iii) the average duration of our loans and securities that are collateralized by mortgages. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. If interest rates decline, our higher-rate loans and investments may be subject to prepayment risk, which could negatively impact our net interest margin. Conversely, if interest rates increase, our loans and investment may be subject to extension risk, which could negatively impact our net interest margin as well. Declines in value may adversely impact our investment securities portfolio. We may be required to record other-than-temporary impairment charges on its investment securities if they suffer a decline in value that is considered other-than-temporary. Numerous factors, including collateral deterioration underlying certain private-label mortgage-backed securities, municipal bond defaults, lack of liquidity for re-sales of certain investment securities, or adverse actions by regulators, could have a negative effect on our securities portfolio in future periods. We may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital in the future, but capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In addition, we may elect to raise additional capital to support our business or to finance acquisitions, if any, or we may otherwise elect to raise additional capital. In that regard, a number 22 of financial institutions have recently raised considerable amounts of capital as a result of deterioration in their results of operations and financial condition arising from the turmoil in the mortgage loan market, deteriorating economic conditions, declines in real estate values, and other factors, which may diminish our ability to raise additional capital. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions, and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot be assured of our ability to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, or on reasonable terms, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and prospects and we may become subject to increased regulatory supervision and the imposition of restrictions on our growth and our business. We may not be able to meet our cash flow needs on a timely basis at a reasonable cost, and our cost of funds for banking operations may significantly increase as a result of general economic conditions, interest rates, and competitive pressures. Liquidity is the ability to meet cash flow needs on a timely basis and at a reasonable cost. The liquidity of the Bank is used to make loans and to repay deposit and borrowing liabilities as they become due, or are demanded by customers and creditors. Many factors affect the Bank’s ability to meet liquidity needs, including variations in the markets served by its network of offices, its mix of assets and liabilities, reputation and standing in the marketplace, and general economic conditions. The Bank’s primary source of funding is retail deposits, gathered throughout its network of fifteen banking offices. Wholesale funding sources principally consist of secured borrowing lines from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston of which it is a member, secured borrowing lines from the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, and certificates of deposit obtained from the national market. The Bank’s securities and loan portfolios provide a source of contingent liquidity that could be accessed in a reasonable time period through sales. Significant changes in general economic conditions, market interest rates, competitive pressures or otherwise, could cause the Bank’s deposits to decrease relative to overall banking operations, and it would have to rely more heavily on brokered funds and borrowings in the future, which are typically more expensive than deposits. Changes in economic conditions, including consumer savings habits and availability or access to the brokered deposit market could potentially have a significant impact on our liquidity position, which in turn could materially impact its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to a variety of operational risks, including reputational risk, legal risk, and compliance risk, and the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are exposed to many types of operational risks, including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, and unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or record-keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems. If personal, non-public, confidential, or proprietary information of customers in out possession were to be mishandled or misused, we could suffer significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage, and financial loss. 23 Because of the nature of the financial services business involves a high volume of transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully rectified. Our necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process transactions and our large transaction volume may further increase the risk that technical flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. We also may be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control (i.e., computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages, natural disaster, disease pandemics, or other damage to property or physical assets), which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or liability. We are further exposed to the risk that our external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as we are) and to the risk that we (or our vendors’) business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. The occurrence of any of these risks could result in a diminished ability of us to operate our business (i.e., by requiring us to expend significant resources to correct the defect), as well as potential liability to clients, reputational damage, and regulatory intervention. We continually encounter technological change. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. We are subject to possible claims and litigation pertaining to fiduciary responsibilities. From time to time, customers make claims and take legal action pertaining to our performance of our fiduciary responsibilities. Whether customer claims and legal action related to our performance of our fiduciary responsibilities are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to us, they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of us and our products and services as well as impact customer demand for our products and services. Strong competition within our markets may significantly impact its profitability. We compete with an ever-increasing array of financial service providers. As a bank holding company and state-chartered financial institution, respectively, the Company and the Bank are subject to extensive regulation and supervision, including, in many cases, regulations that limit the type and scope of their activities. The non-bank financial service providers that compete with us and the Bank may not be subject to such extensive regulation, supervision, and tax burden. Competition from nationwide banks, as well as local institutions, continues to mount in our markets. Regional, national and international competitors have far greater assets and capitalization than we do and have greater access to capital markets and can offer a broader array of financial services than we can. For example, consumers can maintain funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits in brokerage accounts or mutual funds. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as “disintermediation,” could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. Further, many of our competitors 24 have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Additionally, due to their size, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than we can. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things: · The ability to develop, maintain and build long-term customer relationships based on top quality service, high ethical standards and safe, sound assets. · The ability to expand our market position. · The scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands. · The rate at which we introduce new products and services relative to our competitors. · Customer satisfaction with our level of service. · Industry and general economic trends. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability. No assurance can be given that we will continue to be able to compete effectively with other financial institutions in the future. Furthermore, developments increasing the nature or level of competition could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. Tax law changes may adversely affect our net income, effective tax rate, and our overall results of operations and financial condition. Our financial performance is impacted by federal and state tax laws. Given the current economic and political environment, and ongoing state budgetary pressures, the enactment of new federal or state tax legislation may occur. The enactment of such legislation, or changes in the interpretation of existing law, including provisions impacting tax rates, apportionment, consolidation or combination, income, expenses, and credits, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented. We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system are met. The preparation of our financial statements requires the use of estimates that could significantly vary from actual results. The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make significant estimates that affect the financial statements. The most critical estimate is the allowance for loan losses. Due to the inherent nature of estimates, we cannot provide absolute assurance that we will not significantly increase the allowance for loan losses and/or sustain credit losses that are significantly higher than provided for in the allowance. 25 Our access to funds from subsidiaries may be restricted. Bar Harbor Bankshares is a separate and distinct legal entity from our Bank and nonbanking subsidiaries. Bar Harbor Bankshares depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its banking and nonbanking subsidiaries to fund dividend payments on its common stock and to fund all payments on its other obligations. Our subsidiaries are subject to laws that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to Bar Harbor Bankshares, which could impede access to funds it needs to make payments on its obligations or dividend payments. We may be unable to attract and retain key personnel. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key personnel, particularly at the executive level. Competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry can be intense and the Company and its subsidiaries may not be able to hire or retain the key personnel that it depends upon for success. In addition, the Bank’s rural geographic marketplace, combined with relatively expensive real estate purchase prices within the area of the Bank’s principal office location in Bar Harbor, Maine, create additional risks for the Company and the Bank’s ability to attract and retain key personnel. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of the our key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, knowledge of the markets in which the we operate, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. In particular, our business may be negatively impacted if we are unable to attract and retain a new CEO following the retirement of Joseph M. Murphy. We previously announced the retirement of Joseph M. Murphy, our President and CEO, scheduled to occur June 30, 2013. Our business may be negatively impacted if we are not able to identify and retain a new President or if the terms and conditions upon which we hire a new President are materially different from those anticipated by management. To the extent that we acquire other companies, our business may be negatively impacted by certain risks inherent with such acquisitions. To the extent that we may acquire other financial services companies or assets in the future, our business may be negatively impacted by certain risks inherent with such acquisitions. These risks include, but are not limited to, the following: · the risk that the acquired business or assets will not perform in accordance with our expectations; · the risk that difficulties will arise in connection with the integration of the operations of the acquired business with the operations of our businesses; · the risk that we will divert our attention from other aspects of our existing business; · the risk that we may lose key employees of the combined business; and · the risks associated with entering into geographic and product markets in which we have limited or no direct prior experience. We are exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title. In the course of our business, we may own or foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these 26 parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The cost associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, and other external events could significantly impact our business and the business of our customers. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business. Such events could affect the stability of our borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause us to incur additional expenses. In particular, such events may have a particularly negative impact upon the business of our customers who are engaged in the hospitality and natural resource dependent industries in our market area, which could have a direct impact on our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 