Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in our common stock is risky. In addition to the other information in this annual report, you should consider carefully the following risk factors in evaluating us and our business. If any of the events described in the following risk factors were to occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations likely would suffer. In that event, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or a part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of operating losses, expect to continue to incur losses and rely extensively on external financing to maintain our operations. If we are unable to obtain external financing, we would be required to further limit, scale back or cease our operations entirely. Since 1981, we have been engaged primarily in research and development and have derived limited revenues from feasibility studies and the licensing of our technology. We have not generated any material revenues from the sale of any products. In addition, we have incurred net operating losses every year since we began doing business and we anticipate that we will continue to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future. As of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $90,847,978. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, we had net loss of $8,866,182, however, such loss was partially the result of a non-cash increase in a liability classified warrant caused by an increase in our stock price. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, we had a net income of $1,951,279, however, such net income was the result of a non-cash reduction in a liability classified warrant caused by a decline in our stock price. For the fiscal year ended 2005, we had a net loss of $5,760,475. On August 31, 2005, due to our financial condition at the time and our inability to raise sufficient capital to maintain operations, we discontinued all research and development activities and terminated substantially all of our non-management personnel. In December 2005 and February 2006, we raised an aggregate of $8.25 million in a private placement of our securities to investors. As a result of this private placement, we resumed operations with a focus on advancing clinical development of our lead product, EcoNail. In October 2007 we raised an additional $3,535,000 in a subsequent private placement. In addition, in October 2007, we acquired the exclusive worldwide license rights for drug uses of pexiganan, a novel small peptide anti-infective for treatment of patients with mild diabetic for infection (DFI), from Genaera Corporation. The audit report of Vitale, Caturano & Company, Ltd., our independent public accounting firm, on our 2007 financial statements includes an explanatory paragraph concerning our ability to continue as a going concern. The inclusion of this explanatory paragraph may materially and adversely affect our ability to raise new capital. The Company’s continuation as a going concern depends on its ability to secure additional financing, to consummate a strategic transaction, or to make alternative arrangements to fund operations, which we cannot guarantee. Before we or any of our potential licensees may market any of our product candidates, significant additional development efforts and substantial testing will be necessary. We will require substantial additional financing to fund clinical studies on our product candidates. We 17 may not be able to secure financing on favorable terms or at all. If we are unable to obtain external financing, we would have to reduce, delay or eliminate our clinical studies. Our product candidates are in the early stages of development and are subject to the risk of failure inherent in the development of innovative technologies. Various pharmaceutical companies have developed systems to enhance the topical delivery of specific drugs, but relatively limited research has been conducted about using topical delivery systems for a wider range of pharmaceutical products. Topical delivery systems currently are used only in a limited number of products. In addition, some topical delivery systems have demonstrated adverse side effects for users, including skin irritation and delivery difficulties. Our product candidates are in the early stages of development and will require significant further research, development, testing and regulatory clearances. Our product candidates are subject to the risks of failure inherent in the development of products based on innovative technologies. These risks include the possibilities that any or all of our product candidates may be found to be ineffective or toxic, or otherwise may fail to receive necessary regulatory clearances. Even if we succeed with pre-clinical and clinical trials, our product candidates must undergo a rigorous regulatory approval process, which includes extensive review of pre-clinical and clinical testing, to demonstrate safety and efficacy before we can market them. If the results of our pre-clinical and clinical testing indicate that our product candidates are not safe or effective, our business will suffer. Each of our product candidates, including EcoNail, pexiganan and Opterone, must undergo a rigorous regulatory approval process, including significant pre-clinical and clinical testing to demonstrate that they are safe and effective for human use, before we can market them. Conducting clinical trials is a lengthy, expensive and uncertain process. Completion of clinical trials may take several years or more. In addition, our clinical trials may be delayed by many factors, including: • inability to fund clinical trials; • slow or insufficient patient enrollment; • failure of the FDA to approve our clinical trial protocols; • inability to manufacture significant amounts of our product candidates for use in a trial; • safety issues; and • government or regulatory delays. In addition, the results of pre-clinical studies and early clinical trials may not accurately predict results that we will obtain in later testing. A number of other companies in the pharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after they achieved promising results in earlier trials. If we, the FDA or physicians do not believe that 18 our clinical trials demonstrate that our product candidates are safe and effective, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. Our product candidates are subject to significant FDA supervision and may not successfully complete the extensive regulatory approval process required prior to the marketing of any pharmaceutical product. Our activities are regulated by a number of government authorities in the United States and other countries, including the FDA. The FDA regulates pharmaceutical products, including their manufacture and labeling. Before obtaining regulatory approval to market any product candidate under development, we must demonstrate to the FDA that the product is safe and effective for use in each proposed indication through, among other things, pre-clinical studies and clinical trials. Data obtained from testing is subject to varying interpretations which can delay, limit or prevent FDA approval. On October 11, 2002, the FDA advised us that further clinical trials of our drugs containing SEPA had been placed on clinical hold pending review of questions surrounding a 26-week transgenic-mouse (Tg.AC) carcinogenicity study of SEPA we performed in 1999. On April 10, 2003, the FDA lifted this clinical hold. In releasing the hold, the FDA requested additional information on that 1999 study, which we have provided. On December 5, 2005, we received a response from the Division of Reproductive and Urologic Products at the FDA to questions posed by us regarding the proposed Phase 3 clinical program for Opterone, a topical cream for male testosterone deficiency containing SEPA. In the response, the FDA reiterated its safety concerns regarding the skin irritation potential of SEPA related to pre-clinical studies of SEPA, including without limitation, the 26-week transgenic-mouse (Tg.AC) carcinogenicity study of SEPA. The FDA also expressed concern regarding skin irritation observed in some patients in recently completed Opterone clinical studies. To address these concerns as well as other issues related to Opterone’s safety and efficacy program, the FDA requested that we, if we intend to pursue clinical development of Opterone, conduct additional investigation into multiple dose safety and pharmacokinetics before beginning any eventual Phase 3 study. The FDA also confirmed the requirement for other clinical pharmacology studies prior to any NDA submission and requested that we revise our proposed Phase 3 protocol to include additional patients and to extend patient exposure and safety follow-up. If we decide to pursue the clinical development of Opterone, the additional investigation and Phase 3 revisions will increase the time and expense associated with the development of Opterone and may materially adversely affect our ability to find a partner to advance the development of Opterone. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that the results of the studies, if conducted, will address the FDA’s safety concerns or justify further development of Opterone or that any SEPA-based product will be approved by the FDA. To date, neither the FDA nor any of its international equivalents has approved any of our technologies or product candidates for marketing. If the FDA does not approve our product candidates for marketing, we will be materially adversely affected. 19 We face additional risks associated with the regulatory approval process, including: • Changes in existing regulatory requirements could prevent or affect our regulatory compliance. Federal and state laws, regulations and policies may be changed with possible retroactive effect. In addition, how these rules actually operate can depend heavily on administrative policies and interpretations over which we have no control. We also may lack the experience with these policies and interpretations to assess their full impact upon our business. • Obtaining FDA clearances is time-consuming and expensive and we cannot guarantee that such clearances will be granted or, if granted, will not be withdrawn. • The FDA review process may prevent us from marketing our product candidates or may involve delays that significantly and negatively affect our product candidates. We also may encounter similar delays in foreign countries. • Regulatory clearances may place significant limitations on the uses for which any approved products may be marketed. • Any marketed product and its manufacturer are subject to periodic review by the FDA. Any discovery of previously unrecognized problems with a product or a manufacturer could result in suspension or limitation of previously obtained or new approvals. Because the regulatory approval process is complex, we cannot accurately predict the regulatory approval timeline for our product candidates. The laws and regulations administered by the FDA are complex, and compliance with these laws and regulations requires substantial time, effort and expense. Because of this complexity, and because the regulatory approval path for our product candidates has not yet been confirmed by the FDA, we cannot guarantee that our efforts will be sufficient to ensure compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, nor can we accurately predict the regulatory approval timeline for our product candidates. Federal regulatory reforms may create additional burdens that would cause us to incur additional costs and may adversely affect our ability to commercialize our products. From time to time, legislation is drafted, introduced and passed in Congress that could significantly change the statutory provisions governing the approval, manufacturing and marketing of products regulated by the FDA. For example, on September 27, 2007, the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 (the “FDAAA”) was enacted, giving the FDA enhanced post-market authority, including the authority to require post-market studies and clinical trials, labeling changes based on new safety information, and compliance with a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy approved by the FDA. The FDA’s post-market authority takes effect 180 days after the enactment of the law. Failure to comply with any requirements under the FDAAA may result in significant penalties. The FDAAA also authorizes significant civil money penalties for the dissemination of false or misleading direct-to-consumer advertisements 20 and allows the FDA to require companies to submit direct-to-consumer television drug advertisements for FDA review prior to public dissemination. Additionally, the new law expands the clinical trial registry so that sponsors of all clinical trials, except for Phase I trials, are required to submit certain clinical trial information for inclusion in the clinical trial registry data bank. In addition to the FDAAA, FDA regulations and guidance are often revised or reinterpreted by the agency in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. It is impossible to predict whether further legislative changes will be enacted, or FDA regulations, guidance or interpretations will change, and what the impact of such changes, if any, may be. If our product candidates are not accepted by physicians and patients, we may never generate profits from operations. Even if our product candidates receive regulatory approval, we may not be able to market them effectively, they may be uneconomical to market or third parties may market equivalent or superior products. We will need to expend significant effort to educate physicians and patients regarding any product candidate that receives regulatory approval. Consequently, unless our product candidates obtain market acceptance, we may never be profitable. If physicians or patients perceive that testosterone replacement therapies create health risks, the viability of Opterone may be questioned, and our business and the price of our stock may be negatively affected. Recent studies of female hormone replacement therapy products have reported an associated increase in health risks. As a result of these studies, some companies that sell or develop female hormone replacement products have experienced decreased sales of these products, and in some cases, a decline in their stock. From time to time, publications have suggested potential health risks associated with testosterone replacement therapy, including fluid retention, sleep apnea, breast tenderness or enlargement, increased red blood cells, development of clinical prostate disease, increased cardiovascular disease risk and the suppression of sperm production. It is possible that studies on the effect of testosterone replacement therapy could demonstrate these or other adverse health risks. This, along with the negative publicity surrounding hormone replacement therapy in general, could negatively impact market acceptance of Opterone, which could adversely affect our business and the price of our stock. We depend on patents to protect our technologies and if our current patents are ineffective or we are unable to secure and maintain adequate patent protection, our ability to compete with other pharmaceutical companies may be negatively affected. We believe that patent protection of our technologies, processes and products is important to our future operations. The success of our product candidates depends, in part, on our ability to secure and maintain adequate patent protection. Although we have filed and intend to file additional patent applications,the patent application process is lengthy and expensive and there is no guarantee that a patent will be issued or, if issued, that it will be of commercial benefit to us. In addition, it is impossible to anticipate the breadth or degree of protection that any patents we obtain may afford us. Further, products 21 that we develop could infringe patents held by third parties. In these cases, we may have to obtain licenses from third parties, which may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. We do not maintain separate insurance to cover intellectual property infringement. Our composition of matter patent covering SEPA expired in November 2006. The expiration of that patent will enable competitors to develop SEPA-based product candidates covering applications for which we have not obtained composition and use patents. As a result, our competitive position may be adversely affected. Currently, we are not involved in any litigation, settlement negotiations or other legal action regarding patent issues and are not aware of any patent litigation threatened against us. We may, however, become involved in patent litigation against third parties to enforce our patent rights, to invalidate patents held by those third parties or to defend against claims of those third parties. We intend to enforce our patent position and defend our intellectual property rights vigorously. The cost to us of any patent litigation or similar proceeding could be substantial and it may absorb significant management time. In the event of an unfavorable resolution of any infringement litigation against us, we may be enjoined from manufacturing or selling any products without a license from a third party. If we are not able to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, the value of our technologies may be adversely affected. In addition to patent protection, we utilize significant unpatented proprietary technology and rely on unpatented trade secrets and proprietary know-how to protect certain aspects of our technologies. To the extent that we rely on unpatented proprietary technology, we cannot guarantee that others will not independently develop or obtain substantially equivalent or superior technologies or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets, that any obligation of confidentiality will be honored or that we will be able to effectively protect our rights to our proprietary technologies. If we are not able to retain our key personnel and/or recruit additional key personnel in the future, our business may suffer. The success of our business depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified senior management personnel and qualified scientific personnel. We consider Robert J. DeLuccia, our President and Chief Executive Officer, to be a key employee and we have entered into an employment agreement with him. We do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our employees. In our industry, the competition for experienced personnel is intense and can be expected to increase. From time to time we may face, and in the past have faced, difficulties in attracting and retaining employees with the requisite experience and qualifications. If we fail to retain or attract this type of personnel, it could have a significant negative effect on our ability to develop our technologies. 22 Our failure to identify pharmaceuticals that are compatible with our drug delivery technologies or additional product candidates or technologies would impair our ability to grow. Our growth depends on our ability to identify drugs suitable for delivery using our proprietary drug delivery technologies, our ability to identify other product candidates or technologies, and our ability, financially or otherwise, to obtain such product candidates and technologies. Identifying suitable drugs or product candidates is a lengthy and complex process. Even if identified, the drugs or product candidates may not be available to us or we may otherwise be unable to enter into licenses or other agreements for their use. Other companies, including those with substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources, may compete with us for the licensing or acquisition of drugs and product candidates and we may not be able to enter into licenses or other agreements on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to identify and license or acquire drugs that are compatible with our drug delivery technologies or additional product candidates or technologies, our ability to grow our portfolio of product candidates and our prospects would be adversely affected. We do not have any laboratory facilities or scientific personnel and depend on third parties to conduct research and development activities for our technologies and product candidates. We do not have laboratory facilities or scientific personnel capable of conducting research and development activities for our technologies and product candidates and currently we do not have plans to obtain such facilities and personnel. Accordingly, our ability to conduct research and development activities is and will be limited and we will depend to a significant extent on third-party contractors for such research and development activities. If any of our third-party contractors fails to perform its obligations in a timely fashion or in accordance with applicable regulations, it may adversely affect our business. If we decide to establish internal research and development capabilities, we would need to hire and retain significant additional personnel, locate and acquire appropriate laboratory facilities, comply with extensive government regulations, and obtain additional capital, which may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. We do not have any manufacturing facilities and depend on third parties to manufacture our product candidates. We do not have facilities capable of manufacturing any of our product candidates and we do not have plans to obtain these facilities. Accordingly, we will depend on third-party contractors, licensees, or corporate partners to manufacture our products. If any of our third-party manufacturers fails to perform its obligations in a timely fashion or in accordance with applicable regulations, it may delay clinical trials, the commercialization of our product candidates or our ability to supply our product candidates for sale. If we decide to establish a commercial manufacturing facility, we would need to hire and retain significant additional personnel, comply with extensive government regulations, and obtain significant amounts of additional capital, which may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. 23 We face the risk of product liability claims, and we may not have sufficient product liability insurance to cover such claims. It may be expensive and difficult to obtain adequate insurance coverage. The design, development, manufacture and sale of our product candidates involve risk of liability claims and associated adverse publicity. We have product liability insurance coverage with an aggregate policy limit of approximately $10,000,000 for claims related to our product candidates that may arise from clinical trials conducted prior to November 1, 2002. We also have product liability insurance coverage with aggregate policy limits between approximately $3,000,000 and $5,000,000 for claims related to our product candidates that may arise from clinical trials conducted after September 25, 2003. In the event that our products receive regulatory approval and become commercialized, we would need to acquire additional coverage. Product liability insurance is expensive, may be difficult to obtain and may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. If we obtain coverage, we cannot guarantee that the coverage limits of these insurance policies will be adequate. A successful claim against us if we are uninsured, or which is in excess of our insurance coverage, could have a material adverse effect on us and our financial condition. We rely on a third-party supplier for a non-active ingredient in some of our product candidates and, in the event the supplier is unable to supply us with adequate product, our business may be negatively affected if we are not able to timely obtain a substitute ingredient. We rely on a third-party supplier, Seppic Inc., for a non-active ingredient that is important to the formulation and production of some of our topical product candidates. While we believe similar products are available from other suppliers, if Seppic Inc. were unable or unwilling to supply its product in sufficient quantities at a reasonable price, our results could suffer, as we may encounter significant costs and delays in identifying and measuring the efficacy of replacement third party products. Risks Related to Our Industry Our industry is highly competitive and our competitors have or may have significantly more resources than we have. We compete with a number of firms, many of which are large, multi-national organizations with worldwide distribution. We believe that our major competitors in the drug delivery sector of the health care industry include Anacor Pharmaceuticals, Bentley Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Biosante Pharmaceuticals, Inc., NexMed, Inc., Connetics Corporation, Antares Pharma, Inc. and Barrier Therapeutics, Inc. Competitors with approved products in the therapeutic areas that our clinical stage product candidates seek to address include, with respect to onychomycosis: • Novartis AG, maker of Lamisil®, an oral therapy; • Johnson & Johnson, maker of Sporanox®, an oral therapy; and • Sanofi Aventis (Dermik Laboratories), maker of Penlac, a topical nail lacquer. 24 and with respect to male hypogonadism: • Solvay Pharmaceuticals, Inc., maker of Androgel®, a topical gel therapy; • Auxilium Pharmaceuticals, Inc., maker of Testim®, a topical gel therapy; • Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc., maker of Androderm®, a transdermal patch; and • Columbia Laboratories, Inc., maker of Striant®, a buccal film which is placed between the patient’s cheek and gum; A number of companies, including NexMed, Inc./Novartis AG, IVREA/MediQuest Therapeutics, Inc., and Schering-Plough/Anacor Pharmaceuticals, Inc. are also developing topical therapies for onychomycosis. In addition, a number of other companies, including Auxilium Pharmaceuticals, Inc., are also developing topical and/or transmucosal testosterone products. With respect to mild diabetic foot infection (DFI), there is currently no topical treatment approved by the FDA. In addition, we are not aware of any other companies working on a topical treatment for mild diabetic foot infection. These companies have or may have substantially greater capital resources, research and development and technical staff, facilities and experience in obtaining regulatory approvals, as well as in manufacturing, marketing and distributing products, than we do. Recent trends in this industry are toward further market consolidation of large drug companies into a smaller number of very large entities, further concentrating financial, technical and market strength and increasing competitive pressure in the industry. Academic institutions, hospitals, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations also are conducting research and seeking patent protection and may develop competing products or technologies of their own through joint ventures or other arrangements. In addition, recently developed technologies, or technologies that may be developed in the future, may or could be the basis for competitive products which may be more effective or less costly to use than any products that we currently are developing. We expect any future products approved for sale to compete primarily on the basis of product efficacy, safety, patient compliance, reliability, price and patent position. Generally, the first pharmaceutical product to reach the market in a therapeutic or preventive area often has a significant commercial advantage compared with later entrants to the market. Our competitive position also will depend on our ability to resume research and development activities, engage third parties to conduct research and development activities, attract and retain qualified scientific and other personnel, develop effective proprietary products, implement production and marketing plans, obtain patent protection and secure adequate capital resources. Government and private initiatives to reduce health care costs could have a material adverse effect on pharmaceutical pricing and on our operations. The future revenues and profitability of, and availability of capital for, biomedical and pharmaceutical companies may be affected by the continuing efforts of governmental and private third-party payers to contain or reduce the costs of health care through various means. Reimbursement by payors such as government and managed care organizations has become an 25 increasingly important factor in the success of a drug, as has the listing of new products on large formulary lists (as well as their designated “Tier” on such lists), including those of managed care organizations, pharmaceutical benefit providers and group buying organizations. Failure of a pharmaceutical product to be included on formulary lists, to obtain a Tier position on such formulary lists which provides for a sufficiently low patient cost, or to be reimbursed by government or managed care organizations, could negatively impact the profitability of a drug. Furthermore, in some foreign markets pricing or profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to government control and to possible reform in the health care system. Frequently, it is not possible to obtain pricing in foreign markets that is as favorable as that obtainable in the U.S. In the U.S., there have been, and we expect there will continue to be, a number of federal and state proposals to impose similar governmental control. While we cannot predict whether any of these legislative or regulatory proposals will be adopted, the announcement or adoption of these proposals could have a material adverse effect on our prospects. If we succeed in bringing to market one or more of our product candidates, we cannot assure you that these product candidates will be cost effective or that reimbursement to the consumer will be available or will be sufficient to allow us to sell these products on a profitable basis. Risks Related to the Securities Market Our stock price has been, and likely will continue to be, highly volatile, and as a result, an investment in our stock is subject to substantial risk. The market price of our stock has been, and will likely continue to be, highly volatile due to the risks and uncertainties described in this section of this document, as well as other factors, including: • the lack of any significant trading volume in the trading of our shares on the OTC.BB market; • the discontinuance in August 2005 of all of our research and product development activities and our dependence on additional external funding in resuming such activities; • the results of our previously conducted clinical trials for our SEPA-based formulations; • conditions and publicity regarding the pharmaceutical industry generally as well as the specific therapeutic areas our product candidates seek to address; • price and volume fluctuations in the stock market at large which do not relate to our operating performance; and • our ability to raise additional capital. Over the two-year period ending December 31, 2007, the closing price of our common stock as reported on the Pink Sheets LLC and the OTC Bulletin Board ranged from a high of 26 $2.70 to a low of $0.26. On March 6, 2008, the closing price for our common stock on the OTC Bulletin Board was $0.30. In the past, companies that have experienced stock price volatility have sometimes been the subject of securities class action litigation. If litigation were instituted on this basis, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. As a result of this volatility, an investment in our stock is subject to substantial risk. On November 22, 2005, our common stock was delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market for failure to meet its listing standards. Our common stock currently is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, which investors may perceive as less desirable and which could negatively affect the liquidity of an investment in our common stock. Our listing on The Nasdaq Capital Market was conditioned on our compliance with Nasdaq’s continued listing requirements. The minimum standards for continued listing on The Nasdaq Capital Market include stockholders’ equity of $2.5 million or market capitalization of $35 million and a minimum bid price of $1.00. On October 18, 2005, we received a Nasdaq Staff Determination indicating that our securities were subject to delisting from The Nasdaq Capital Market as we did not comply with the minimum bid price requirement for continued listing. We requested a hearing before a Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel to review the Staff Determination. On November 21, 2005, we withdrew our appeal of the Nasdaq Staff Determination and our common stock was delisted from quotation on the Nasdaq Capital Market effective as of Tuesday, November 22, 2005. Immediately thereafter, our common stock was quoted on the Pink Sheets LLC, and on December 22, 2005, our stock became eligible for quotation on the OTC Bulletin Board and presently trades under the symbol “MACM.OB.” The over-the-counter market is generally considered to be a less efficient system than markets such as Nasdaq or other national exchanges because of lower trading volumes, transaction delays and reduced security analyst and news media coverage. These factors could contribute to lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask prices for our common stock. Additionally, trading of our common stock in an over-the-counter market may make us less desirable to institutional investors and may, therefore, limit our future equity funding options. Together, certain of our shareholders own a majority of our stock and could ultimately control decisions regarding us. A small group of investors hold approximately 62.77% of the outstanding common stock of the Company. Because these investors currently own a large portion of our voting stock, they may be able to generally determine or they will be able to significantly influence the outcome of corporate actions requiring shareholder approval. As a result, these parties may be in a position to control matters affecting our company, including amendments to our articles of incorporation and bylaws; payment of dividends on our common stock; and acquisitions, sales of all or substantially all of our assets, mergers or similar transactions, including transactions involving a change of control. As a result, some investors may be unwilling to purchase our common stock. In addition, if the demand for our common stock is reduced because of these shareholders’ control of the Company, the price of our common stock could be materially depressed. In 27 addition, for so long as SCO Capital Partners, LLC owns 20% of our outstanding common stock, it has the right to designate two individuals to serve on our board of directors. Certain of our shareholders own large blocks of our common stock and securities exercisable into shares of our common stock, and any exercises, or sales by these shareholders could substantially lower the market price of our common stock. Several of our shareholders own large blocks of our voting stock. The resale of the shares of our common stock owned by these shareholders (issuable to them upon exercise of outstanding warrants to purchase our common stock) could substantially depress our stock price. We are contractually obligated to issue shares in the future, diluting your interest in us. As of December 31, 2007, there are outstanding and exercisable warrants to purchase approximately 20,258,484 shares of our common stock, at a weighted average exercise price of $0.63 per share. As of December 31, 2007, there also are outstanding and exercisable options to purchase approximately 753,391 shares of our common stock, at a weighted average exercise price of $13.29 per share. Moreover, we expect to issue additional options to purchase shares of our common stock to compensate employees, consultants and directors and may issue additional shares to raise capital, acquire other companies or technologies, to pay for services, or for other corporate purposes. Any such issuances will have the effect of further diluting the interest of the purchasers of the securities being sold in this offering. If material weaknesses are identified and reported as to the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of your investment. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, adopted rules requiring public companies to include in their annual reports on Form 10-K a report of management on the company’s internal controls over financial reporting, including management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting as of the company’s fiscal year end. In addition, the accounting firm auditing a public company’s financial statements must also attest to, and report on, the operating effectiveness of the company’s internal controls. As of December 31, 2007, Management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting contained a material weakness due to a lack of segregation of duties. Fiscal 2008 will be the first year for which we must undergo the auditor attestation process required by Section 404 and there is a risk that we may not comply with all of its requirements. If our internal controls are not designed or operating effectively as required by Section 404, our independent auditors may either disclaim an opinion as it relates to management’s assessment of the effectiveness of its internal controls or may issue a qualified opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls. If we are unable to remediate any material weaknesses by December 31, 2008, our independent auditors would be required to issue an adverse opinion on our internal controls. If our independent auditors disclaim an opinion as to the effectiveness of our internal controls or if they render an adverse opinion due to material weaknesses in our internal controls, then investors may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline and make it more difficult for us to raise capital in the future. 28 NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This annual report may contain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). These statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking words or phrases such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “could,” “expect,” “intend,” “look forward,” “may,” “planned,” “potential,” “should,” “will,” and “would.” These forward-looking statements reflect our current expectations and are based on currently available data. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a “safe harbor” for such forward-looking statements. In order to comply with the terms of the safe harbor, we note that a variety of factors could cause actual results and experience to differ materially from the anticipated results or other expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, but are not limited to: • our history of operating losses, our decision to discontinue research and development activities and our need for additional external financing; • our need for significant additional product development efforts and additional financing; • technological uncertainty relating to transdermal drug delivery systems; • the early stage of development of our proposed products; • the lack of success of our prior development efforts; • uncertainties related to clinical trials of our proposed products; • uncertainties relating to government regulation and regulatory approvals; • our dependence on third parties for the FDA application process; • uncertainties regarding market acceptance of our product candidates; • uncertainties regarding the potential health risks of hormone replacement therapies; • our ability to identify and obtain rights to products or technologies in order to build our portfolio of product candidates; • our ability to recruit additional key employees; • our limited personnel and our dependence on continued access to scientific talent; • no assurance of our entering into license arrangements; • our lack of laboratory facilities and scientific personnel and uncertainties regarding our reliance on third parties to conduct research and development activities for our technologies and product candidates; • uncertainties relating to competition, patents and proprietary technology; • our dependence on third parties to conduct research and development activities; • our dependence on third-party suppliers and manufacturers; 29 • uncertainties relating to risks of product liability claims, lack of product liability insurance, and expense and difficulty of obtaining adequate insurance coverage; • our majority shareholders, who own a large portion of our voting stock, could control company decisions and could substantially lower the market price of our common stock if they were to sell large blocks of our common stock in the future; • uncertainty of pharmaceutical pricing and related matters; • volatility of our stock price; • the effect that our quotation on the OTC Bulletin Board will have on the liquidity of our common stock; • dilution of our shares as a result of our contractual obligation to issue shares in the future; and • risks described from time to time in our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and other filings under the Exchange Act. These or other events or circumstances could cause our actual performance or financial results in future periods to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this annual report. Except as required under federal securities laws and the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, we do not have any intention, and do not undertake, to update any forward-looking statements contained in this annual report to reflect events or circumstances arising after the date of this annual report, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. As a result of these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements included in this annual report or that may be made elsewhere from time to time by, or on behalf of, us. All forward-looking statements attributable to us are expressly qualified by these cautionary statements. Before you invest in our securities, you should be aware that the occurrence of the events described in these risk factors and elsewhere in this annual report could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position and prospects. You should read this annual report completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. 30 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 