ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS CAN BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN. The Company's business is affected by a number of economic factors, including the level of economic activity in the markets in which the Company operates and the level of interest rates. A decline in economic activity or an increase in interest rates in the United States could materially affect the Company's financial condition and results of operations. In the Company's business, a decline in economic activity, as a result of cyclical or other factors, typically results in a decline in purchases of the Company's products, which would result in a decrease in the Company's sales volume and profitability. COOLER THAN NORMAL SUMMERS MAY DEPRESS THE COMPANY'S SALES. Demand for the Company's products is affected by the weather as hotter- than-normal summers generate strong demand for air conditioning products, and cooler-than-normal summers depress the Company's sales. Because a high percentage of the Company's overhead and operating expenses is relatively fixed throughout the year, operating earnings and net earnings tend to be lower in quarters with lower sales. Variations in demand could have a material adverse effect on the timing of the Company's cash flows and, therefore, the Company's ability to service its obligations with respect to the Company's indebtedness, including the notes. THE COMPANY MAY INCUR MATERIAL COSTS AS A RESULT OF WARRANTY AND PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS, WHICH WOULD NEGATIVELY AFFECT THE COMPANY'S PROFITABILITY. The development, manufacture, sale and use of the Company's products involve a risk of warranty and product liability claims. The Company's product liability insurance policies have limits that, if exceeded, may result in material costs that would have an adverse effect on the Company's future profitability. In addition, warranty claims are not covered by the Company's product liability insurance, and there may be types of product liability claims that are also not covered by the Company's product liability insurance. 7 THE COMPANY MAY NOT BE ABLE TO SUCCESSFULLY COMPETE IN THE HIGHLY- COMPETITIVE HVAC BUSINESS. Competition in the Company's various markets could cause price reductions or market share losses, or could negatively affect the Company's cash flow, which could have an adverse effect on the Company's future financial results. Substantially all of the markets in which the Company participates are highly competitive. The most significant competitive factors faced are product reliability, product performance, service, and price, with the relative importance of these factors varying among the Company's product lines. Other factors that affect competition in the HVAC market include the development and application of new technologies and an increasing emphasis on the development of more energy efficient HVAC products. Moreover, new product introductions are an important factor in the market categories in which the Company's products compete. Several of the Company's competitors have greater financial and other resources than the Company, allowing competitors to invest in more extensive research and development. The Company may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competition and cannot be assured that the current and future competitive pressures faced by the Company will not materially adversely affect its business and results of operations. THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS HAS DEPENDED ON ITS RELATIONSHIPS WITH A LIMITED NUMBER OF LARGE CUSTOMERS. In fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004 The Home Depot and Wal-Mart accounted for 28%, 35%, and 50% respectively, of net sales. The Company discontinued selling to The Home Depot and Wal-Mart in 2006 due to low margins and high working capital requirements. Sales to Menards for the year ended December 31, 2006 accounted for 11% of net sales. While the Company has done business with most of its principal customers for a number of years, agreements with principal customers are reached annually and are based on purchase orders. The Company cannot assure that sales to principal customers will continue at current levels. Further, continuation of the relationships depends on the customers' satisfaction with the price, quality, and delivery of the Company's products. The loss of, or a reduction in purchase levels by, a significant customer could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business. THE COMPANY'S WORKING CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS FLUCTUATE BECAUSE OF THE SEASONAL NATURE OF ITS BUSINESS. UNAVAILABILITY OF REQUIRED WORKING CAPITAL COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE COMPANY. Because of the seasonal nature of the Company's business, the Company's working capital requirements are significantly higher at certain times of the year. Additional working capital may not be available on satisfactory terms. Unavailability of required working capital could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and operating results. THE COMPANY'S LOSS OF CERTAIN KEY MEMBERS OF MANAGEMENT OR INABILITY TO ATTRACT OTHER QUALIFIED PERSONNEL COULD NEGATIVELY AFFECT ITS BUSINESS PROSPECTS. The Company believes that its performance has been and will continue to be dependent upon the efforts of its principal executive officers. Although the Company has designed incentive and compensation programs to retain key employees, including options to purchase Company stock, the Company cannot assure that its principal executive officers will continue to be available. Mr. Sal Giordano, Jr., Chairman of Fedders Corporation is the only principal executive officer with an employment agreement. The loss of some or all of the Company's principal executive officers could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company believes that its future success will depend in large part on its continued ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel. THE UNAVAILABILITY OF AND FLUCTUATION IN THE COST OF RAW MATERIALS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE COMPANY'S FUTURE RESULTS. The Company's operations are dependent on the supply of various raw materials, including copper, aluminum, and steel, from domestic and foreign suppliers. The Company obtains substantially all its supply of copper, aluminum, and steel under purchase orders rather than long-term supply contracts. Supply interruptions or cost increases which the Company is unable to pass on to its customers could adversely affect the Company's future operating results. 8 THE COMPANY IS SUBJECT TO VARIOUS REGULATORY LAWS THAT AFFECTS ITS BUSINESS AND PRODUCTS. The Company is subject to various federal, state, and local laws affecting its business. Air conditioners are subject to regulations providing for minimum energy efficiency rating requirements. A combination of an efficient compressor and the design of the air conditioning system using the compressor is needed to achieve the required ratings. The required efficiency levels may be changed by the relevant regulatory authority. Any future changes in required efficiency levels or other government regulations could adversely affect the Company's industry and its business. EXPOSURE TO ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITIES COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE COMPANY'S RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Current or future environmental laws could adversely affect the Company's future profitability. The Company is subject to extensive and changing federal, state, local, and foreign laws and regulations designed to protect the environment, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous materials, and the cleanup of contaminated sites. These laws and regulations could impose liability for remediation costs and often result in civil or criminal penalties in cases of non-compliance. In addition, liability for cleanup costs under certain environmental laws, such as the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA, or the federal Superfund law), can be imposed retroactively and without regard to the lawfulness of our conduct. Compliance with environmental laws increases our costs of doing business. Because these laws are subject to frequent change, the Company is unable to predict the future costs resulting from environmental compliance. THE COMPANY'S INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS INHERENT IN SUCH ACTIVITIES. The Company has dedicated resources to participate in the international market by establishing operations in a number of countries. Through Fedders International, Inc., the Company has operations in a number of countries, including China, India, the United Kingdom, and the Philippines. Foreign operations are subject to the risks inherent in such activities, such as foreign regulations, unsettled political conditions, exchange rate fluctuations, logistical and communication challenges, burdensome costs of complying with a variety of foreign laws, greater difficulties in protecting intellectual property, and general economic conditions in these foreign markets. The Company's international operations may be adversely affected by changes in government policies, such as changes in laws and regulations (or the interpretation thereof), restrictions on imports and exports and sources of supply, duties or tariffs, the introduction of measures to control inflation, changes in the rate or method of taxation, the imposition of restrictions on currency conversion, and remittances abroad and the expropriation of private enterprise. In addition, policy concerns particular to the United States with respect to a country in which the Company has operations could adversely affect the Company's operations in that country. A significant portion of the Company's net sales and costs are denominated in foreign currencies, including the Chinese yuan, and, to a lesser extent, the Canadian dollar, the euro, the Philippine peso, and the Indian rupee. As a result, changes in exchange rates of these foreign currencies to the U.S. dollar will affect the Company's sales, cost of sales, and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. The impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on the Company's results of operations cannot be accurately predicted. In the future, the Company may engage in exchange rate-hedging activities in an effort to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations. However, the Company cannot be assured that any hedging transactions it may enter into will be effective or will not result in foreign exchange hedging loss. THE COMPANY MAY BE UNABLE TO REALIZE THE EXPECTED COST SAVINGS FROM ITS RESTRUCTURING INITIATIVES. The Company's ability to compete effectively depends in part on its ability to control or reduce its cost structure and increase the efficiency of its manufacturing processes. Although the Company has implemented several restructuring initiatives, including the relocation of manufacturing facilities, and have other restructuring initiatives that the Company may implement in the future, there is inherent risk related to relocation of manufacturing facilities, including disruption of business operations, inability to meet customer demand, higher costs than anticipated, environmental issues associated with closed facilities, and a failure to complete these initiatives in the time frames contemplated. 9 The Company cannot be assured that its past or future restructuring initiatives will achieve the full expected benefits of the cost savings or revenue enhancements within the expected time frame or at all. The cost savings may be offset by costs incurred in restructuring the Company's operations, as well as by increases in other expenses unrelated to the restructuring. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 