Item 1A. RISK FACTORS - -------- ------------ The following are some of the factors that could materially and adversely affect our future performance or could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us and we cannot predict every event and circumstance that may adversely affect our business. However, these risks and uncertainties are the most significant factors that we have identified at this time. If one or more of these risks actually occurs, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could likely suffer, and the price of our stock would be negatively affected. Unless the context requires otherwise, references to "we," "us," or "our" in this "Risk Factors" section are intended to mean First Chester County Corporation, First National Bank of Chester County and its other wholly-owned subsidiaries, collectively. Adverse changes in the economic conditions in our market area could materially and negatively affect our business. Substantially all of our business is with consumers and small to mid-sized companies located within Chester and Delaware Counties, Pennsylvania. Our business is directly impacted by factors such as economic, political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, changes in government monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond our control. A deterioration in economic conditions, whether caused by national, regional or local concerns, including an economic slowdown in southeastern Pennsylvania, could result in the following consequences, any of which could materially harm our business and operating results: o customer's credit quality may deteriorate; o loan delinquencies and losses may increase; o problem assets and foreclosures may increase; o need to increase our allowance for loan and lease losses, thus reducing net income; o more non-accrual loans may reduce net income; o demand for our products and services may decrease; o competition for low cost or non-interest bearing deposits may increase; and o collateral securing loans may decline invalue. Competitive pressures from banks, financial services companies and other companies offering banking services could negatively impact our business. We conduct banking operations primarily in southeastern Pennsylvania. Increased competition in our market area may result in reduced loans and deposits, a decline in loan growth and/or loan margins, high customer turnover, and lower interest rate margins. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Many competitors in our market area, including national banks, regional banks and other community banks, offer the same banking services as we offer. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including without limitation, savings and loan institutions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, credit unions, mortgage banks and other financial intermediaries. These competitors often have greater resources than we do, affording them competitive advantages, including the ability to maintain numerous banking locations and ATMs and conduct extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Changes in interest rates could reduce our net interest margin and net interest income. Our income and cash flows and the value of our assets and liabilities depend to a great extent on the difference between the interest rates earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and investment securities, and the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. These interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors which are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular, the Federal Reserve and the Office of Comptroller of Currency. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence the origination and market value of loans and investment securities and the amounts paid on deposits. If we are unable to timely adjust our interest rates on our loans and deposits in response to any such changes in monetary policy, our earnings could be adversely affected. If the rate of interest we pay on our deposits, borrowings, and other interest-bearing liabilities increases faster than the rate of interest we earn on our loans, investments and other interest-earning assets, our net interest income, and therefore our earnings will decrease. Conversely, our earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates on our loans or other investments decline more quickly than those on our deposits and other borrowings. 10 FIRST CHESTER COUNTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES Significant increases in interest rates may affect customer loan demand and payment habits. Significant increases in market interest rates, or the perception that an increase may occur, could adversely impact our ability to generate new variable interest rate loans. An increase in market interest rates may also adversely affect the ability of adjustable rate borrowers to meet repayment obligations, thereby causing non-performing loans and loan charge-offs to increase. We may experience lower net interest income if our loan growth exceeds that of deposit growth requiring us to obtain other sources of funds at higher costs. Our growth strategy depends upon generating an increasing level of loans while maintaining a low level of loan losses. As our loans grow, it is necessary for the deposits to grow at a comparable pace in order to avoid the need for us to obtain other sources of loan funds at higher costs. If our loan growth exceeds the deposit growth, we may have to obtain other sources of funds at higher costs, thus reducing our net interest income. If our allowance for loan and lease losses is not adequate to cover actual or estimated future loan and lease losses, our earnings may decline. We maintain an allowance for loan and lease losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance by borrowers of their obligations. Our allowance for loan and lease losses may not be adequate to cover actual or estimated future loan and lease losses and future provisions for loan and lease losses could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Our allowance for loan and lease losses is based on prior experience, as well as an evaluation of risks in the current portfolio. However, losses may exceed our current estimates. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions that may be beyond our control, including changes in interest rates, changes in borrowers' creditworthiness and the value of collateral securing loans and leases. Additionally, as our loan and lease portfolios grow, we may need to take additional provision expense to ensure that the allowance remains at levels deemed appropriate by Management for the size and quality of portfolio. Federal regulatory agencies review our loans and allowance for loan and lease losses and may require us to increase our allowance. While we believe that our allowance for loan and lease losses is adequate to cover our anticipated losses, we cannot assure that we will not further increase the allowance for loan and lease losses or that regulators will not require us to increase the allowance. Either of these occurrences could materially affect our earnings. Adverse changes in the market value of securities and investments that we manage for others may negatively impact the growth level of our non-interest income. We provide a broad range of trust and investment management services for estates, trusts, agency accounts, and individual and employer sponsored retirement plans. Fees for such services are typically based upon a percentage of the market value of such funds under management. The market value of such securities and investments may decline for a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control. Any such adverse changes in the market value of the securities and investments could negatively impact our non-interest income generated from providing these services. Expansion of our branch network may increase our expenses without proportionate increases in income. We continue to look for appropriate locations to open new branches. Such opportunities are attractive as a means to obtain additional core deposits and increase our customer base for new loans and services. However, the costs of opening a new branch may reduce our earnings before the benefits of the new branch are realized. Our decisions to open new branches are based upon demographic information and assumptions regarding the suitability of a particular location. There can be no assurance that such assumptions will be accurate and fully achievable. Our branch locations may be negatively affected by changes in regional and local demographics. We have strategically selected locations for our branches based upon regional and local demographics. Any unanticipated changes in such demographics may impact our ability to reach or maintain profitability at our branch locations. Changes in regional and local demographics may also affect the relative benefits of certain branch locations and Management may be required to reduce the number and/or locations of our branches, which may result in unanticipated expenses. 11 FIRST CHESTER COUNTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES Changes in the regulatory environment may adversely affect our business or the ability of the Bank to pay dividends to the Corporation. The banking industry is highly regulated and we are subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision, and legislation. We are subject to regulation and supervision by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Offices of the Comptroller of the Currency, and the Securities and Exchange Commission and the FDIC. Laws restricting our activities include, but are not limited to, the Gramm-Leach-Blilely Act, the Bank Secrecy Act, the Truth-in-Lending Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, the Bank Holding Company Act, the Community Reinvestment Act, the USA Patriot Act and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act. These laws may change from time to time, and new laws may be enacted, any of which may limit our ability to offer new products and services, obtain financing, attract deposits, and originate loans. Any changes to these laws may adversely affect loan demand, credit quality, consumer spending and saving habits, interest rate margins, FDIC assessments, and operating expenses, thus negatively affecting our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if the Bank is restricted in its ability to pay dividends to the Corporation, the Corporation's ability to pay dividends to its shareholders or to meet its financial obligations may be impaired. Technology costs, new product development, and marketing costs may exceed our expectations and negatively impact our profitability. The financial services industry is constantly undergoing technological changes in the types of products and services provided to customers to enhance customer convenience. Our future success will depend upon our ability to address the changing technological needs of our customers. We have invested a substantial amount of resources to update our technology. Our investment in such technology seeks to increase overall efficiency and improve accessibility to customers. We are also investing in the expansion of bank branches, improvement of operating systems, and the development of new marketing initiatives. The benefits of such investments may not be achieved as quickly as anticipated, or at all. The costs of implementing technological changes, new product development, and marketing costs may exceed our expectations and negatively impact our results of operations and profitability. Changes to financial accounting standards may affect our reported results of operations. We prepare our financial statements in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP"). GAAP is subject to the rules and interpretations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. A change in those policies can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before a change is announced. Accounting rules affecting many aspects of our business, including rules relating to accounting for business combinations, asset impairment, revenue recognition, restructuring or disposal of long-lived assets and stock option grants have recently been revised or are currently under review. Changes to those rules or current interpretation of those rules may have a material adverse effect on our reported financial results or on the way we conduct our business. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, fail to correct any issues in the design or operating effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting, or fail to prevent fraud, our shareholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business and the trading price of our Common Stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. - -------- -------------------------- None. 12 FIRST CHESTER COUNTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 