Item 1A Risk Factors 8-14 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 14 Item 2 Properties 15-16 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 16 Item 4 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 16 PART II: Item 5 Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 17-18 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 19 Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 20-39 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 39-42 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 43-82 Item 9 Changes In and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 83 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 83-86 Item 9B Other Information 87 PART III: Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 88 Item 11 Executive Compensation 88 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 88 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 88 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 88 PART IV: Item 15 Exhibits, Financial Statements and Schedules 89-93 SIGNATURES 94-95 i Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business. First Chester County Corporation (the "Corporation") may, from time to time, make written or oral "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements contained in the Corporation's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (including this Report on Form 10-K), its reports to shareholders and in other communications by the Corporation. These statements can often be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as "believes", "expects", "intends", "may", "will", "should" or "anticipates" or similar terminology. These statements involve risks and uncertainties and are based on various assumptions. Although the Corporation believes that its expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, investors and prospective investors are cautioned that such statements are only projections. Also, future results may differ materially from the Corporation's historic results. The risks and uncertainties described in this Report, among others, could cause the Corporation's actual future results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements made in this Report, or presented elsewhere by Management from time to time, or from the Corporation's historic results. The most significant of these risks and uncertainties are discussed in Item 1A, "Risk Factors." Additional discussion may be included in Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," and elsewhere in this Report. Statements made in this Report are made as of the date of this Report, unless stated to be as of an earlier date, and we are not obligated to update our forward-looking statements, even though our situation may change in the future. GENERAL The Corporation is a Pennsylvania corporation and a bank holding company registered under the Federal Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the "BHC Act"). As a bank holding company, the Corporation's operations are confined to the ownership and operation of banks and activities deemed by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the "Federal Reserve Board") to be so closely related to banking to be a proper incident thereto. The Corporation was incorporated on March 9, 1984, for the purpose of becoming a registered bank holding company pursuant to the BHC Act and acquiring First National Bank of Chester County, formerly known as The First National Bank of West Chester (the "Bank"), thereby enabling the Bank to operate within a bank holding company structure. On September 13, 1984, the Corporation acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock of the Bank. The principal activities of the Corporation are the owning and supervising of the Bank, which engages in a general banking business based in Chester County, Pennsylvania. On December 31, 2008, the Corporation completed its acquisition of American Home Bank, National Association ("AHB"), which merged with and into the Bank. AHB was established in 2001 and has been engaged in full service community banking, with a primary focus on mortgage-banking activities. Prior to the acquisition of AHB, the Bank had operated branches predominantly in Chester County, Pennsylvania, as well as in Delaware and Montgomery Counties, Pennsylvania. With the acquisition of AHB, the Bank also has a branch in Lancaster County and a branch in Cumberland County, Pennsylvania. The mortgage-banking activities previously conducted by AHB are now operated by a division of the Bank. The Corporation directs the policies and coordinates the financial resources of the Bank. On August 5, 2001, the Corporation became a financial holding company pursuant to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999. The Corporation's filings with the SEC, including its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, periodic reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, as well as its proxy statements and additional solicitation materials, are accessible free of charge at our website at http://www.1nbank.com as soon as reasonably practicable after filing with the SEC. By making this reference to our website, we do not intend to incorporate into this report any information contained in the website. The website should not be considered part of this Report. In addition, the SEC maintains a website at http:///www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other 1 Table of Contents information free of charge regarding issuers, including the Corporation, that file electronically with the SEC. BUSINESS OF THE BANK The Bank is engaged in the business of commercial and retail banking and was organized under the banking laws of the United States in December 1863. The Bank currently conducts its business through twenty five primary banking offices located in Chester, Montgomery, Delaware, Lancaster and Cumberland Counties, Pennsylvania, including its main office. In addition, the Bank operates 29 ATM facilities. The Bank is a member of the Federal Reserve System. At December 31, 2008, the Bank had total assets of $1.3 billion, total loans of $940.1 million, total deposits of $1.02 billion and employed 565 persons, of which 520 were full-time and 45 were part-time. The Bank is a full service commercial bank offering a broad range of retail banking, commercial banking, internet banking, trust and investment management and insurance services to individuals, businesses, governmental entities, nonprofit organizations, and community service groups. Through the Bank's community banking segment, the Bank offers retail services, including checking accounts, savings programs, money-market accounts, certificates of deposit, safe deposit facilities, consumer loan programs, overdraft checking, automated tellers and extended banking hours, and commercial services, including revolving lines of credit, commercial mortgages, equipment leasing and letter of credit services. These retail and commercial banking activities are provided primarily to consumers and small to mid-sized companies within the Bank's market area. Lending services are focused on commercial, consumer, and real estate lending to local borrowers. The Bank attempts to establish a total borrowing relationship with its customers that may typically include commercial loans, a mortgage loan for the borrower's residence, a consumer loan or a revolving personal credit line. The Bank's Wealth Management Division operates as part of the community banking segment and provides a broad range of trust and investment management services. It administers and provides services for estates, trusts, agency accounts, and individual and employer sponsored retirement plans. At December 31, 2008, the Bank's Wealth Management Division administered or provided investment management services to accounts that held assets with an aggregate market value of approximately $484.6 million. For the year ended December 31, 2008, income from the Bank's Wealth Management Division and related activities was approximately $3.4 million. In addition to retail and commercial banking and wealth management services, the Bank offers an array of investment opportunities including mutual funds, annuities, retirement planning, education planning and insurance through FNB Insurance Services, LLC, doing business as First National Financial Advisory Services, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Bank. Information regarding the revenues, net income and total assets of the community banking segment can be found in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplemental Data. The Bank's retail mortgage-banking business segment, which consists primarily of the operations formerly conducted by AHB, provides mortgages and associated products to customers and sells most of those mortgages into the secondary market on a servicing released basis. AHB retains the servicing on a portion of the loans that it sells. The sourcing of mortgage loans is conducted through a direct, retail delivery channel comprised of retail loan offices, affiliated business arrangements with builders and realtors, and a wholesale lending operation. The wholesale operation sources loans through relationships with unrelated mortgage brokers. The mortgage banking segment uses a variety of trademark names in its business activities. The Bank has taken action to protect such trademark names through registration of same where it deems appropriate. The mortgage banking segment is subject to changes in demand due to a variety of factors, including interest rates, home prices, general economic conditions and seasonal changes in purchases of new homes. At December 31, 2008, the total assets of the mortgage banking segment were $247.8 million, gross loans and leases were $110.9 million, and deposits were $36.6 million. The results of operations presented in the Corporation's consolidated income statement do not include any revenue or expenses of the mortgage banking segment as this segment was created through the Corporation's 2 Table of Contents acquisition of AHB on December 31, 2008. The acquisition of AHB was intended to help the Bank to further diversify the Bank's products, services, and sources of income as well as expand the Bank's geographic footprint. COMPETITION The Bank's core service area consists primarily of greater Chester County, as well as the fringe of Delaware County, Pennsylvania. The core of the Bank's service area is located within a fifteen-mile radius of the Bank's main office in West Chester, Pennsylvania. As a result of the acquisition of AHB on December 31, 2008, the Bank's service area has been expanded into Lancaster and Cumberland Counties, Pennsylvania. In addition, the mortgage-banking activities of the Bank compete to originate residential mortgages nationally. The Bank encounters vigorous competition from bank holding companies, other community banks, thrift institutions, credit unions, Internet banks and other non-bank financial organizations such as mutual fund companies, brokerage firms, mortgage bankers and the financing arms of corporate conglomerates. The Bank also competes with banking and financial institutions, some from out-of-state that have opened branches in the Bank's market, which are substantially larger and have greater financial resources than the Bank. The Bank's Wealth Management Division competes with a variety of companies including private trust companies, banks with trust departments, private money managers, brokerage firms, mutual fund companies, attorneys, accountants and insurance companies. Management believes that the Bank is able to effectively compete with its competitors because of its ability to provide responsive personalized services and competitive rates. This ability is a direct result of Management's knowledge of the Bank's market area and customer base. Management believes the needs of the small to mid-sized commercial business and retail customers are not adequately met by larger financial institutions, therefore creating a marketing opportunity for the Bank. SUPERVISION AND REGULATION General The Corporation is a bank holding company and financial holding company subject to supervision and regulation by the Federal Reserve Board. In addition, the Bank is subject to supervision, regulation and examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the "OCC") and secondary regulation by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the "FDIC"). The OCC must approve bank mergers, if the surviving bank would be a national bank, as well as the establishment of new branches and new operating subsidiaries. Federal and state laws impose a number of requirements and restrictions on the operations of the Bank, including requirements to maintain reserves against deposits, restrictions on the types and amounts of loans that may be made and the types of services which may be offered, and restrictions on the ability to acquire deposits under certain circumstances. The Bank must also comply with various consumer laws and regulations. Certain aspects of the Bank's operation are also subject to state laws. The following sections discuss more fully some of the principal elements of the regulatory framework applicable to the Corporation and the Bank. This discussion is not intended to be an exhaustive description of the statutes and regulations applicable to the Corporation and the Bank and is subject to and qualified by reference to the statutory and regulatory provisions. A change in these statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, or the adoption of new statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, may have a material effect on the Corporation's business. Bank Holding Company Act The Corporation is required to file with the Federal Reserve Board an annual report, other periodic reports, and such additional information as the Federal Reserve Board may require pursuant to the BHC Act. The Federal Reserve Board also makes examinations of bank holding companies and their 3 Table of Contents subsidiaries. The BHC Act requires each bank holding company to obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board before it may acquire substantially all of the assets of any bank, or if it would acquire or control more than 5% of the voting shares of such a bank. The Federal Reserve Board considers numerous factors, including its capital adequacy guidelines, before approving such acquisitions. For a description of certain applicable guidelines, see this Item "Capital," Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Capital Adequacy," and Part II, Item 8, "Note K—Regulatory Matters" in the consolidated financial statements. The Community Reinvestment Act The Community Reinvestment Act of 1977, as amended (the "CRA"), and the regulations promulgated to implement the CRA are designed to create a system for bank regulatory agencies to evaluate a depository institution's record in meeting the credit needs of its community. The CRA regulations were completely revised in 1995 to establish performance-based standards for use in examining a depository institution's compliance with the CRA (the "revised CRA regulations"). The revised CRA regulations establish new tests for evaluating both small and large depository institutions' investment in the community. For the purposes of the revised CRA regulations, the Bank is deemed to be a large retail institution, based upon financial information as of December 31, 2008. In connection with its assessment of CRA performance, the FDIC assigns a rating of "outstanding," "satisfactory," "needs to improve," or "substantial compliance." The Bank has opted to be examined under a three-part test evaluating the Bank's lending service and investment performance. The Bank received an satisfactory rating in its last regulatory examination in March 2008. Dividend Restrictions The Corporation is a legal entity separate and distinct from the Bank. Virtually all of the revenue of the Corporation available for payment of dividends on its Common Stock will result from amounts paid to the Corporation from dividends received from the Bank. All such dividends are subject to limitations imposed by federal and state laws and by regulations and policies adopted by federal and state regulatory agencies. The Bank, as a national bank, is required by federal law to obtain the approval of the OCC for the payment of dividends if the total of all dividends declared by the Board of Directors of the Bank in any calendar year will exceed the total of the Bank's net income for that year and the retained net income for the preceding two years, less any required transfers to surplus or a fund for the retirement of any preferred stock. Under this formula, in 2009, the Bank, without affirmative governmental approvals, could declare aggregate dividends of approximately $8.3 million, plus an amount approximately equal to the net income, if any, earned by the Bank for the period from January 1, 2009, through the date of declaration of such dividend less dividends previously paid, subject to the further limitations that a national bank can pay dividends only to the extent that the Bank would not become "undercapitalized" (as defined under federal law). Dividends declared and paid in 2008 were $2.9 million. If, in the opinion of the applicable regulatory authority, a bank or bank holding company under its jurisdiction is engaged in or is about to engage in an unsafe or unsound practice (which, depending on the financial condition of the bank or bank holding company, could include the payment of dividends), such regulatory authority may require such bank or bank holding company to cease and desist from such practice, or to limit dividends in the future. Finally, the several regulatory authorities described herein may, from time to time, establish guidelines, issue policy statements and adopt regulations with respect to the maintenance of appropriate levels of capital by a bank or bank holding company under their jurisdiction. Compliance with the standards set forth in such policy statements, guidelines and regulations could limit the amount of dividends which the Corporation and the Bank may pay. 4 Table of Contents Capital The Corporation and the Bank are both subject to minimum capital requirements and guidelines. The Federal Reserve Board measures capital adequacy for bank holding companies on the basis of a risk-based capital framework and a leverage ratio. The Federal Reserve Board has established minimum leverage ratio guidelines for bank holding companies. These guidelines currently provide for a minimum leverage ratio of Tier I Capital to average total assets of 3% for bank holding companies that meet certain criteria, including that they maintain the highest regulatory rating. All other bank holding companies are required to maintain a leverage ratio of 3% plus an additional cushion of at least 100 to 200 basis points. The Federal Reserve Board has not advised the Corporation of any specific minimum leverage ratio under these guidelines which would be applicable to the Corporation. Failure to satisfy regulators that a bank holding company will comply fully with capital adequacy guidelines upon consummation of an acquisition may impede the ability of a bank holding company to consummate such acquisition, particularly if the acquisition involves payment of consideration other than common stock. In many cases, the regulatory agencies will not approve acquisitions by bank holding companies and banks unless their capital ratios are well above regulatory minimums. The Bank is subject to capital requirements which generally are similar to those affecting the Corporation. The minimum ratio of total Risk-Based Capital to Risk-Weighted assets (including certain off-balance sheet items, such as standby letters of credit) is 8%. Capital may consist of equity and qualifying perpetual preferred stock, less goodwill ("Tier I Capital"), and certain convertible debt securities, qualifying subordinated debt, other preferred stock and a portion of the reserve for possible credit losses ("Tier II Capital"). Trust preferred securities may be included in Tier I Capital, subject to certain quantitative limits. The aggregate amount of trust preferred securities and certain other capital elements is limited to 25% of Tier I Capital elements, net of goodwill. The amount of trust preferred securities and certain other elements in excess of the limit could be included in Tier II Capital, subject to certain other restrictions. As described elsewhere in this report, the Corporation has $15.5 million in outstanding trust preferred securities which is includable in Tier I Capital. A depository institution's capital classification depends upon its capital levels in relation to various relevant capital measures, which include a Risk-Based Capital measure and a leverage ratio capital measure. A depository institution is considered "well capitalized" if it significantly exceeds the minimum level required by regulation for each relevant capital measure, "adequately capitalized" if it meets each such measure, "undercapitalized" if it fails to meet any such measure, "significantly undercapitalized" if it is significantly below any such measure and "critically undercapitalized" if it fails to meet any critical capital level set forth in the regulations. An institution may be placed in a lower capitalization category if it receives an unsatisfactory examination rating, is deemed to be in an unsafe or unsound condition, or engages in unsafe or unsound practices. Under applicable regulations, for an institution to be well capitalized it must have a Total Risk-Based Capital ratio of at least 10%, a Tier I Capital ratio of at least 6% and a Leverage ratio of at least 5% and not be subject to any specific capital order or directive. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Corporation and the Bank had capital in excess of all regulatory minimums and the Bank was "well capitalized." Deposit Insurance Assessments The Bank is subject to deposit insurance assessments by the FDIC. The FDIC has developed a risk-based assessment system, under which the assessment rate for an insured depository institution varies according to its level of risk. In 2006, the Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Act of 2005 increased FDIC premiums for all commercial banks. This legislation provided a one-time assessment credit for each insured bank. The Bank's assessment credit offset $416 thousand of the insurance premium expense in 2007 and 5 Table of Contents $66 thousand in 2008, and was fully utilized in the first quarter of 2008. The increased premium did not indicate any change in the FDIC risk assessment for the Bank. In 2008 and 2009, the FDIC adopted rules that will increase FDIC premiums significantly for assessment periods beginning in the first quarter of 2009. This will cause our 2009 FDIC premiums and assessment expense to increase significantly over 2008. Management currently estimates that this expense will increase by 240%. FDIC insurance expense was $490 thousand, $87 thousand and $88 thousand for the years 2008, 2007 and 2006. Financial Services Modernization Act of 1999 On November 12, 1999, the President signed into law the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (the "Act") which became effective in 2000. Among the Act's various provisions are some changes governing the operations of companies doing business in the financial services industry. The Act eliminates many of the restrictions previously placed on the activities of banks and bank holding companies, and through the creation of two new designations, financial holding companies and financial subsidiaries, bank holding companies and national banks may participate in a wider array of financial services and products (referred to as "financial activities" in the Act), including services and products that had been reserved only for insurance companies and securities firms. In addition, a bank holding company can now affiliate with an insurance company and a securities firm. A "financial activity" is an activity that does not pose a safety and soundness risk and is financial in nature, incidental to an activity that is financial in nature, or complementary to a financial activity. Some examples of "financial activities" which are permitted under the Act are: •Lending, investing or safeguarding money or securities; •Underwriting insurance or annuities, or acting as an insurance or annuity principal, agent or broker; •Providing financial or investment advice; •Underwriting, dealing in or making markets in securities; and •Insurance company portfolio investments. The Corporation elected to become a financial holding company on August 5, 2001, and currently meets the qualifications set forth under the Act to be a financial holding company. The Bank, as a national bank, is authorized by the Act to use "financial subsidiaries" to engage in financial activities, subject to the limitations imposed by the Act. During 2000, First National Financial Advisory Services was formed as a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Bank for the purpose of offering insurance, full service brokerage, financial planning and mutual fund services. First National Financial Advisory Services has elected to become a financial subsidiary under the Act. Control Acquisitions The Change in Bank Control Act prohibits a person or group of persons from acquiring "control" of a bank holding company, unless the Federal Reserve Board has been notified and has not objected to the transaction. Under a rebuttable presumption established by the Federal Reserve Board, the acquisition of ten percent or more of a class of voting stock of a bank holding company with a class of securities registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act, such as the Corporation, would, under the circumstances set forth in the presumption, constitute acquisition of control of the bank holding company. In addition, as described above, under the BHC Act, the Federal Reserve Board must give its prior approval of any transaction pursuant to which any person or persons may acquire 25 percent (5 percent in the case of an acquirer that is a bank holding company) or more of any class of outstanding common stock 6 Table of Contents of a bank holding company, such as the Corporation, or otherwise obtaining control or a "controlling influence" over that bank holding company. The USA Patriot Act The Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism of 2002 (the "USA Patriot Act") gives the federal government powers to address terrorist threats through enhanced domestic security measures, expanded surveillance powers, increased information sharing, and broadened anti-money laundering requirements. Through amendments to the Bank Secrecy Act, the USA Patriot Act takes measures intended to encourage information sharing among bank regulatory agencies and law enforcement agencies. Among other requirements, the USA Patriot Act requires banks to establish anti-money laundering policies, to adopt procedures and controls to detect and report money laundering, and to comply with certain enhanced recordkeeping obligations and due diligence standards with respect to correspondent accounts of foreign banks. Compliance with these requirements has not had a material effect on the Corporation's operations. Emergency Economic Stabilization Act Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008, in response to the ongoing crisis in financial markets and worsening economic situation, the U.S. government enacted new legislation and established a number of new programs and initiatives designed to stabilize and provide liquidity to financial markets, ensure that banking institutions are adequately capitalized, and restore confidence in the financial system. In October 2008, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 ("EESA") was enacted. Pursuant to EESA, the U.S. Treasury created the Troubled Asset Relief Program ("TARP") pursuant to which the Treasury will, among other things, invest in qualified, eligible financial institutions through capital infusions and asset purchases, up to an aggregate amount of $700 billion. In connection with TARP, the U.S. Treasury established a voluntary Capital Purchase Program (the "Program") to encourage United States financial institutions to raise additional capital to increase the flow of financing to United States businesses and consumers and to support the United States economy in general. Under this Program, the Treasury announced that it will purchase up to $250 billion of senior preferred shares in qualifying U.S. financial institutions, as determined by the Treasury. The Treasury intends the Program to attract broad participation by healthy institutions, and already the Treasury has purchased preferred stock under this program from numerous large and small banks in the approximate aggregate amount of $195 billion. The Corporation is an eligible institution under the Program. The Corporation filed an application to participate in the Program, and received preliminary approval from the Treasury to participate in the amount of $25 million (or approximately 2.3% of the Corporation's risk-weighted assets as of December 31, 2008). Although the Corporation was preliminarily approved for participation in the Program, the Corporation has elected not to participate. Other Matters Federal and state law also contains a variety of other provisions that affect the operations of the Corporation and the Bank including certain reporting requirements, regulatory standards and guidelines for real estate lending, "truth in savings" provisions, the requirement that a depository institution give 90 days prior notice to customers and regulatory authorities before closing any branch, certain restrictions on investments and activities of nationally-chartered insured banks and their subsidiaries, limitations on credit exposure between banks, restrictions on loans to a bank's insiders, guidelines governing regulatory examinations, and a prohibition on the acceptance or renewal of brokered deposits by depository institutions that are not well capitalized or are adequately capitalized and have not received a waiver from the FDIC. 7 Table of Contents EFFECT OF GOVERNMENTAL POLICIES The earnings of the Bank and, therefore, of the Corporation are affected not only by domestic and foreign economic conditions, but also by the monetary and fiscal policies of the United States and its agencies (particularly the Federal Reserve Board), foreign governments and other official agencies. The Federal Reserve Board can and does implement national monetary policy, such as the curbing of inflation and combating of recession, by its open market operations in United States government securities, control of the discount rate applicable to borrowings from the Federal Reserve and the establishment of reserve requirements against deposits and certain liabilities of depository institutions. The actions of the Federal Reserve Board influence the level of loans, investments and deposits and also affect interest rates charged on loans or paid on deposits. The nature and impact of future changes in monetary and fiscal policies are not predictable. From time to time, various proposals are made in the United States Congress and the Pennsylvania legislature and before various regulatory authorities, who would alter the powers of different types of banking organizations, remove restrictions on such organizations and change the existing regulatory framework for banks, bank holding companies and other financial institutions. Recently, there have been numerous regulatory initiatives by the U.S. Treasury, FDIC, and the Federal Reserve Board to stabilize the financial markets. Congress and the U.S. government continue to evaluate and develop programs designed, among other things, to stimulate the economy, restore confidence, and reverse or forestall declines in the housing markets. It is impossible to predict what the final form of any of such proposals will be and the impact, if any, of such adoption on the business of the Corporation. Item 1A. Risk Factors The following are some of the factors that could materially and adversely affect our future performance or could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us and we cannot predict every event and circumstance that may adversely affect our business. However, these risks and uncertainties are the most significant factors that we have identified at this time. If one or more of these risks actually occurs, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could likely suffer, and the price of our stock would be negatively affected. Unless the context requires otherwise, references to "we," "us," or "our," in this "Risk Factors" section are intended to mean First Chester County Corporation, First National Bank of Chester County and its subsidiaries, collectively. The current turmoil in the financial markets may lead to an increased levels of regulation, loan delinquencies, and problem loans, and a reduction of business activity generally. We are presently operating in a period of unprecedented economic change and uncertainty. During the second half of 2008 and continuing through the present, the United States has been in a recession with falling home prices and increasing unemployment and underemployment. The U.S. government has acted to stabilize the financial markets and to stimulate the economy by enacting legislation of unprecedented proportions. Congress and the U.S. Government continue to evaluate and develop programs designed, among other things, to reverse the economic downturn, restore confidence, reverse or forestall declines in the housing markets. It is impossible to predict what the final form of any of such proposals will be and the impact of the adoption of new regulation will be on the business of the Corporation. There can be no assurance as to the impact that any such initiatives or governmental programs will have on the financial markets. In addition, compliance with additional regulation may increase our costs of doing business or impede the efficiency of our internal business processes. The resulting turmoil, uncertainty, regulation and lack of consumer confidence may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and trading price of our common stock. 8 Table of Contents Adverse changes in the economic conditions in our market area could materially and negatively affect our business. Substantially all of our business is with consumers and small to mid-sized companies located within Chester and Delaware Counties, Pennsylvania, although our mortgage-banking operations involve originations of mortgages nationwide. Our business is directly affected by factors such as economic, political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, changes in government monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond our control. A deterioration in economic conditions, whether caused by national, regional or local concerns, including an economic slowdown in southeastern Pennsylvania, could result in the following consequences, any of which could materially harm our business and operating results: •customer's credit quality may deteriorate; •loan delinquencies and losses may increase; •problem assets and foreclosures may increase; •fluctuations in the value of, or impairment losses with respect to, investment securities; •need to increase our allowance for loan and lease losses, thus reducing net income; •more non-accrual loans may reduce net income; •demand for our products and services may decrease; •competition for low cost or non-interest bearing deposits may increase; and •collateral securing loans may decline in value. Competitive pressures from banks, financial services companies and other companies offering banking services could negatively impact our business. We conduct banking operations primarily in southeastern Pennsylvania. Increased competition in our market area may result in reduced loans and deposits, a decline in loan growth and/or loan margins, high customer turnover, and lower interest rate margins. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Many competitors in our market area, including national banks, regional banks and other community banks, offer the same banking services as we offer. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including without limitation, savings and loan institutions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, credit unions, mortgage banks and other financial intermediaries. These competitors often have greater resources than we do, affording them competitive advantages, including the ability to maintain numerous banking locations and ATMs and conduct extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Changes in interest rates could reduce our net interest margin and net interest income. Our income and cash flows and the value of our assets and liabilities depend to a great extent on the difference between the interest rates earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and investment securities, and the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. These interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors which are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular, the Federal Reserve and the Office of Comptroller of Currency. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence the origination and market value of loans and investment securities and the amounts paid on deposits. If we are unable to timely adjust our interest rates on our loans and deposits in response to any such changes in monetary policy, our earnings could be adversely affected. If 9 Table of Contents the rate of interest we pay on our deposits, borrowings, and other interest-bearing liabilities increases faster than the rate of interest we earn on our loans, investments and other interest-earning assets, our net interest income, and therefore our earnings will decrease. Conversely, our earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates on our loans or other investments decline more quickly than those on our deposits and other borrowings. Significant increases in interest rates may affect customer loan demand and payment habits. Significant increases in market interest rates, or the perception that an increase may occur, could adversely impact our ability to generate new variable interest rate loans. An increase in market interest rates may also adversely affect the ability of adjustable rate borrowers to meet repayment obligations, thereby causing non-performing loans and loan charge-offs to increase. We may experience lower net interest income if our loan growth exceeds that of deposit growth requiring us to obtain other sources of funds at higher costs. Our growth strategy depends upon generating an increasing level of loans while maintaining a low level of loan losses. As our loans grow, it is necessary for the deposits to grow at a comparable pace in order to avoid the need for us to obtain other sources of loan funds at higher costs. If our loan growth exceeds the deposit growth, we may have to obtain other sources of funds at higher costs, thus reducing our net interest income. If our allowance for loan and lease losses is not adequate to cover actual or estimated future loan and lease losses, our earnings may decline. We maintain an allowance for loan and lease losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance by borrowers of their obligations. Our allowance for loan and lease losses may not be adequate to cover actual or estimated future loan and lease losses and future provisions for loan and lease losses could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Our allowance for loan and lease losses is based on prior experience, as well as an evaluation of risks in the current portfolio. However, losses may exceed our current estimates. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions that may be beyond our control, including changes in interest rates, changes in borrowers' creditworthiness and the value of collateral securing loans and leases. Additionally, as our loan and lease portfolios grow, we may need to take additional provision expense to ensure that the allowance remains at levels deemed appropriate by Management for the size and quality of portfolio. Federal regulatory agencies review our loans and allowance for loan and lease losses and may require us to increase our allowance. While we believe that our allowance for loan and lease losses is adequate to cover our anticipated losses, we cannot assure that will be the case or that we will not further increase the allowance for loan and lease losses or that regulators will not require us to increase the allowance. Either of these occurrences could materially affect our earnings. Disruptions in the secondary market for residential mortgage loans adversely affected AHB's operations prior to the merger and may adversely affect the AHB division of the Bank. Significant ongoing disruptions in the secondary market for residential mortgage loans have limited the market for and liquidity of many mortgage loans. The effects of ongoing mortgage market challenges, combined with the ongoing correction in residential real estate market prices and reduced levels of home sales, could result in further price reductions in single family home values, adversely affecting the value of collateral securing mortgage loans held by the Bank, mortgage loan originations and profits on sale of mortgage loans, or adversely affecting customers' ability to repay their loans. Declining real estate prices and higher interest rates have caused higher delinquencies and losses on certain mortgage loans. These trends could continue. Continued declines in real estate values, home sales volumes and financial stress on 10 Table of Contents borrowers as a result of job losses, interest rate resets on adjustable rate mortgage loans or other factors could have further adverse effects on borrowers that result in higher delinquencies, greater charge-offs, and increased demands for repurchases, indemnification claims or litigation in future periods, which could adversely affect the Bank's financial condition or results of operations. The Bank could be required to repurchase mortgage loans or indemnify mortgage loan purchasers as a result of breaches of representations and warranties, borrower fraud, or certain borrower defaults, which could harm liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. When we sell mortgage loans, whether as whole loans or pursuant to a securitization, we are required to make customary representations and warranties to the purchasers about the mortgage loans and the manner in which they were originated. Our whole loan sale agreements require us to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans in the event we breach any of these representations or warranties. In addition, we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans as a result of borrower fraud or in the event of early payment default of the borrower on a mortgage loan. Likewise, we are required to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans if we breach a representation or warranty in connection with a securitization. The remedies available to us against the originating broker or correspondent may not be as broad as the remedies available to a purchaser of mortgage loans against us, and we face the further risk that the originating broker or correspondent may not have the financial capacity to perform remedies that otherwise may be available to us. Therefore, if a purchaser enforces its remedies, we may not be able to recover its losses from the originating broker or correspondent. If repurchase and indemnity demands increase, our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. The AHB Division's dependence on certain relationships, such as with Freddie Mac, could adversely affect the mortgage-banking business. The secondary mortgage markets are currently experiencing unprecedented disruptions resulting from reduced investor demand for mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities and increased investor yield requirements for those loans and securities. In addition, we have a substantial relationship with Freddie Mac, including loan sales that are material to our mortgage-banking business. A significant portion of the conventional loans that we originate or purchase qualify for inclusion in guaranteed mortgage securities backed by Freddie Mac. A substantial reduction in the volume of loans that Freddie Mac agrees to purchase or the loss of other material financial benefits we receive from Freddie Mac could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. As a government-sponsored enterprise, Freddie Mac is subject to extensive regulation and oversight by governmental agencies. On September 7, 2008, Freddie Mac was placed under the conservatorship of the Federal Housing Finance Agency, Freddie Mac's principal regulator. Substantial changes in Freddie Mac's business and operations are anticipated to occur as a result of such event. This event, together with changes in regulations or the occurrence of other events that adversely impact the business, operations or prospects of Freddie Mac could have a material adverse effect on our mortgage-banking business, operations or prospects. The scope of our residential mortgage loan production exposes us to risks of noncompliance with an increasing and inconsistent body of complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local levels in the United States. Because we are authorized to originate, purchase and service mortgage loans in all 50 states, we must comply with the laws and regulations, as well as judicial and administrative decisions, for all of these jurisdictions, in addition to an extensive body of federal law and regulations. The volume of new or modified laws and regulations has increased in recent years, and individual cities and counties in the United States have begun to enact laws that restrict certain loan origination, acquisition and servicing activities in those cities and counties. The laws and regulations are different, complex and, in some cases, 11 Table of Contents in direct conflict with each other or contain vague standards or requirements, which make compliance efforts challenging. Our failure to comply with these laws can lead to: •civil and criminal liability: •loss of licenses and approvals; •damage to its reputation in the industry; •inability to sell or securitize its loans, or otherwise raise capital; •demands for indemnification or loan repurchases from purchasers of its loans; •fines and penalties and litigation, including class action lawsuits; •administrative enforcement actions; •additional regulatory burdens, restrictions, or other changes to our business model; •claims that an allegedly non-compliant loan is rescindable or unenforceable; and •damage to the reputation of the American Home Bank division of First National Bank, any of which could have a material adverse effect on American Home Bank's business, operations or prospects. Our mortgage-banking operations rely on other companies to provide key components of its business infrastructure. Third parties provide key components of our mortgage-banking business infrastructure, such as banking services, processing, and Internet connections and network access. Any disruption in such services provided by these third parties or any failure of these third parties to handle current or higher volumes of use could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to clients and otherwise to conduct business. Technological or financial difficulties of a third party service provider could adversely affect our business to the extent those difficulties result in the interruption or discontinuation of services provided by that party. We may not be insured against all types of losses as a result of third party failures, and our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all losses resulting from system failures or other disruptions. Failures in our mortgage-banking infrastructure could interrupt the operations or increase the costs of doing business. Significant legal actions could subject us to substantial liabilities or litigation costs. The Bank, through the American Home Bank division, is currently involved in various claims and legal actions related to its operations. In general, such matters are believed to be ordinary routine litigation incidental to the conduct of business. Nonetheless, the costs to pursue and defend these legal matters may be significant, and if the claims were determined against the Bank, could adversely affect the results of operations, financial condition, reputation and prospects of the Bank. The use of correspondents, brokers and other third parties to originate loans outside of its market area subjects our mortgage-banking operations to certain risks. We utilize mortgage correspondents and brokers to originate mortgage loans, including construction/permanent loans, beyond its local market area. This use of correspondents and brokers may increase the risk of fraudulent representations of a borrower's creditworthiness. We also utilize independent licensed 12 Table of Contents appraisers and inspectors to appraise and inspect properties and work progress on construction/permanent loans, but our employees may not be present in many of these markets. Thus, we rely on the professional opinions and photographic evidence provided by appraisers and inspectors to authorize periodic advances in accordance with applicable loan documents. This reliance may increase the risk of errors or fraud regarding the approval of loans and the making of loan advances. Our mortgage-banking operations face prepayment risk from loans sold for which servicing is retained. Mortgage loans sold, for which servicing is retained, are subject to prepayment risk. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 156 requires capitalization of the fair value of originated mortgage servicing rights. If mortgages are repaid faster than the estimated rate used in capitalizing the mortgage servicing rights, the fair value of the mortgage servicing rights would decrease and be reflected as a charge against earnings. Our focus on residential mortgage lending could cause the risk of loss from mortgage prepayments to be material. Adverse changes in the market value of securities and investments that we manage for others may negatively impact the growth level of our non-interest income. We provide a broad range of trust and investment management services for estates, trusts, agency accounts, and individual and employer sponsored retirement plans. Fees for such services are typically based upon a percentage of the market value of such funds under management. The market value of such securities and investments may decline for a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control. Any such adverse changes in the market value of the securities and investments could negatively impact our non-interest income generated from providing these services. Expansion of our branch network may increase our expenses without proportionate increases in income. We continue to look for appropriate locations to open new branches. Such opportunities are attractive as a means to obtain additional core deposits and increase our customer base for new loans and services. However, the costs of opening a new branch may reduce our earnings before the benefits of the new branch are realized. Our decisions to open new branches are based upon demographic information and assumptions regarding the suitability of a particular location. There can be no assurance that such assumptions will be accurate and fully achievable. Our branch locations may be negatively affected by changes in regional and local demographics. We have strategically selected locations for our branches based upon regional and local demographics. Any unanticipated changes in such demographics may impact our ability to reach or maintain profitability at our branch locations. Changes in regional and local demographics may also affect the relative benefits of certain branch locations and Management may be required to reduce the number and/or locations of our branches, which may result in unanticipated expenses. Changes in the regulatory environment may adversely affect our business or the ability of the Bank to pay dividends to the Corporation. The banking industry is highly regulated and we are subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision, and legislation. We are subject to regulation and supervision by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Offices of the Comptroller of the Currency, and the Securities and Exchange Commission and the FDIC. Laws restricting our activities include, but are not limited to, the Gramm-Leach-Blilely Act, the Bank Secrecy Act, the Truth-in-Lending Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, the Bank Holding Company Act, the Community Reinvestment Act, the USA Patriot Act and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act. These laws may change from time to time, and new 13 Table of Contents laws may be enacted, any of which may limit our ability to offer new products and services, obtain financing, attract deposits, and originate loans. Any changes to these laws may adversely affect loan demand, credit quality, consumer spending and saving habits, interest rate margins, FDIC assessments, and operating expenses, thus negatively affecting our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if the Bank is restricted in its ability to pay dividends to the Corporation, the Corporation's ability to pay dividends to its shareholders or to meet its financial obligations may be impaired. Technology costs, new product development, and marketing costs may exceed our expectations and negatively impact our profitability. The financial services industry is constantly undergoing technological changes in the types of products and services provided to customers to enhance customer convenience. Our future success will depend upon our ability to address the changing technological needs of our customers. We have invested a substantial amount of resources to update our technology. Our investment in such technology seeks to increase overall efficiency and improve accessibility to customers. We are also investing in the expansion of bank branches, improvement of operating systems, and the development of new marketing initiatives. The benefits of such investments may not be achieved as quickly as anticipated, or at all. The costs of implementing technological changes, new product development, and marketing costs may exceed our expectations and negatively impact our results of operations and profitability. Changes to financial accounting standards may affect our reported results of operations. We prepare our financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"). GAAP is subject to the rules and interpretations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. A change in those policies can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before a change is announced. Accounting rules affecting many aspects of our business, including rules relating to accounting for business combinations, asset impairment, revenue recognition, restructuring or disposal of long-lived assets and stock option grants have recently been revised or are currently under review. Changes to those rules or current interpretation of those rules may have a material adverse effect on our reported financial results or on the way we conduct our business. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, fail to correct any issues in the design or operating effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting, or fail to prevent fraud, our shareholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business and the trading price of our Common Stock. Our common stock is thinly traded. Our common stock is traded on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board under the symbol FCEC. Our common stock is thinly traded compared to larger, more widely known companies in the banking industry. There can be no assurance that a more active trading market for our common stock will develop. As a result, our shareholders may be unable to sell large blocks of our common stock in short time periods or the market price per share may be reduced. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 14 Table of Contents 