Item 1A. Risk Factors We encourage you to carefully consider the risks described below and other information contained in this report when considering an investment decision in REX common stock. Any of the events discussed in the risk factors below may occur. If one or more of these events do occur, our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In this instance, the trading price of REX stock could decline, and investors might lose all or part of their investment. We have concentrations of cash deposits at financial institutions that exceed federal insurance limits. We generally have cash deposits that exceed federal insurance limits. Should the financial institutions we deposit our cash at experience insolvency or other financial difficulty, our access to cash deposits could be limited. In extreme cases, we could lose our cash deposits entirely. This would negatively impact our liquidity and results of operations. The current interest rate environment has resulted in lower yields on our excess cash. We have experienced lower yields on our excess cash compared to historical yields. Should the present economic conditions result in a sustained period of historically low interest rates, our interest income would be negatively impacted. Risks Related to the wind down and planned exit of our retail business We may incur lease termination costs if we vacate leased stores prior to the expiration of the lease. We are evaluating stores to close as part of the wind down of our retail business. We may close stores and warehouses we lease from landlords prior to the expiration of the lease. In such cases, we may be charged lease termination costs by the landlord that could be material. 8 We may not be able to sell our remaining inventory at profitable selling prices. As we continue to liquidate our existing inventory, we may have to reduce the selling price of the products to levels that could result in material losses. At January 31, 2009, we had approximately $22.3 million of inventory related to our retail business. Our future costs associated with administering extended product service contracts may result in higher than expected costs. We will continue to administer extended product service contracts that have contractual maturities over the next five years. To the extent we do not have products or an adequate repair service network to satisfy warranty claims; we may incur material costs as we would be required to refund cash to customers for warranted products. We may have a significant amount of vacant warehouse space after we complete the wind down of our retail business. We own two distribution facilities comprising approximately 650,000 square feet. We are currently marketing these facilities for lease or sale. We may not be able to successfully lease or sell these properties which could result in lost opportunities for revenue or future impairment charges related to the carrying value of the associated assets. A majority of our owned real estate will be leased to subsidiaries of Appliance Direct upon their taking possession of our properties. Subsidiaries of Appliance Direct have agreed to lease 37 owned properties from us. Our expected lease revenue from these locations could be lower than expected should Appliance Direct or its subsidiaries fail to perform pursuant to the lease agreements. Such failures could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to our Synthetic Fuel Investments We face synthetic fuel risks as future IRS audits may result in the disallowance of previously recognized tax credits. We have been allocated approximately $25.0 million of Section 29/45K tax credits and recognized investment income of approximately $59.9 million from the sales of our partnership interests from years that the partnerships have not been audited by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). Should the tax credits be denied on any future audit and we fail to prevail through the IRS or the legal process, there could be a significant tax liability owed for previously taken tax credits or refunds of previously recognized income with a significant adverse impact on earnings and cash flows. The production and sale of synthetic fuel qualifies for Section 29/45K tax credits if certain requirements are satisfied, including a requirement that the synthetic fuel differs significantly in chemical composition from the coal used to produce the synthetic fuel and that the fuel was produced from a facility placed in service before July 1, 1998. We may not be able to generate sufficient taxable income to realize our deferred tax assets. We have approximately $31.9 million of deferred tax assets recorded on our consolidated financial statements. Should future results of operations or other factors cause us to determine that it is unlikely that we will generate sufficient taxable income to fully utilize our deferred tax assets; we would then be required to establish a 9 valuation allowance against such deferred tax assets. We would increase our income tax expense by the amount of the tax benefit we do not expect to realize. This would reduce our net income and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial position. We may realize capital losses related to our sales of synthetic fuel ownership interests. We have, for income tax purposes, recognized capital gain in the year of sale for certain sales of our ownership interests in synthetic fuel entities. Should we, in subsequent years, realize a capital loss for income tax purposes, we may be required to carry the loss back to prior years. This could result in the write down of previously used Section 29/45K tax credits. This would reduce our net income and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Risks Related to our Alternative Energy Business Certain of our ethanol investments are subject to the risks of a development stage business which could adversely affect the returns on our ethanol investments and our results of operations. We have limited experience investing in the ethanol industry. We entered into our first agreement to invest in an ethanol plant in November 2005. At January 31, 2009, we remain invested in four entities. Three entities are currently producing ethanol and one is expected to complete the construction of its ethanol production facility by the second quarter of fiscal year 2009. Our ethanol investments have been managed by our Chief Executive Officer, our Vice President and our Chief Financial Officer. We do not otherwise have a dedicated ethanol development or management staff. As a consequence, our ethanol investments are subject to many of the risks associated with a development stage company, including an unproven business model, a lack of operating history and an undeveloped operating structure. These development stage risks could result in our making investments in ethanol plants that perform substantially below our expectations, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. One Earth and Big River are constructing new ethanol plants. As a result, we face significant project development risks that may adversely affect our investment returns. Our investments in One Earth and Big River face risks of construction delays and cost overruns that could delay or reduce our investment returns. Significant delays in the construction schedules, or material variations between estimated versus actual construction costs, could prevent commencement of plant operations as expected and adversely impact the ability of the plants to operate profitably. In addition, One Earth and Big River must obtain environmental and other permits, complete arrangements for transportation, water, natural gas and marketing of the ethanol, and hire and train employees before production can begin. In some cases, development of infrastructure outside of our control will be required, including additional rail capacity, adequate water supply, additional ethanol storage facilities and increases in truck fleets to transport ethanol within local markets. The failure to obtain any of these necessary elements in a timely manner or on commercially acceptable terms could adversely affect the profitability of the plants. Once the new plants begin production, they face uncertainties of whether they will perform to specifications and whether they will achieve anticipated operating results. If cash flow from operations of our ethanol plants is not sufficient to service debt, the plants could fail and we could lose our entire investment. We expect our ethanol plants to finance approximately 60% of plant construction cost with debt. The ability of each company owning the plant to repay borrowings incurred will depend upon the plant’s financial and operating performance. The cash flows and capital resources of an ethanol plant may be insufficient to repay its debt obligations. If a plant cannot service its debt, it may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, 10 sell assets, restructure its indebtedness or seek additional capital. If unable to do so, the value of our investment could decline significantly. The institutional senior lenders to the companies which own and operate our ethanol plants hold liens on the plant’s assets. If a company fails to make its debt service payments, the senior lender will have the right to repossess the plant’s assets in addition to other remedies, which are superior to our rights as an equity investor or subordinated lender. Such action could have a materially adverse impact on our investment in the ethanol plant. We depend on our partners to operate our ethanol investments. Our investments currently represent both majority and minority equity positions, and day-to-day operating control of each plant generally remains with the local farmers’ cooperative or investor group that has promoted the plant. We may not have the ability to directly modify the operations of the plants in response to changes in the business environment or in response to any deficiencies in local operations of the plants. In addition, local plant operators, who also represent the primary suppliers of corn and other crops to the plants, may have interests, such as the price and sourcing of corn and other crops, that may differ from our interest, which is based solely on the operating profit of the plant. The limitations on our ability to control day-to-day plant operations could adversely affect plant results of operations. We may not successfully acquire or develop additional ethanol investments. The growth of our ethanol business depends on our ability to identify and develop new ethanol investments. Our ethanol development strategy depends on referrals, and introductions, to new investment opportunities from industry participants, such as ethanol plant builders, financial institutions, marketing agents and others. We must continue to maintain favorable relationships with these industry participants, and a material disruption in these sources of referrals would adversely affect our ability to expand our ethanol investments. Any expansion strategy will depend on prevailing market conditions for the price of ethanol and the costs of corn and natural gas and the expectations of future market conditions. The significant expansion of ethanol production capacity in the United States could impede any expansion strategy. There is increasing competition for suitable sites for ethanol plants. Even if suitable sites or opportunities are identified, we may not be able to secure the services and products from contractors, engineering firms, construction firms and equipment suppliers necessary to build or expand ethanol plants on a timely basis or on acceptable economic terms. Construction costs associated with expansion may increase to levels that would make a new plant too expensive to complete or unprofitable to operate. Additional financing may also be necessary to implement any expansion strategy, which may not be accessible or available on acceptable terms. We face significant competition in the ethanol industry. We face significant competition for new ethanol investment opportunities. There are varied enterprises seeking to participate in the ethanol industry. Some enterprises provide financial support similar to our business model. Other enterprises seek to acquire or develop plants which they will directly own and operate. Many of our competitors are larger and have greater financial resources and name recognition than we do. We must compete for investment opportunities based on our strategy of supporting and enhancing local development of ethanol plant opportunities. We may not be successful in competing for investment opportunities based on our strategy. There is a consolidation trend in the ethanol industry, partly a result of companies recently seeking protection under the United States Bankruptcy Code. As a result, firms are growing in size and scope. Larger firms offer efficiencies and economies of scale, resulting in lower costs of production. In addition, plants currently being sold as part of a bankruptcy proceeding may have significantly lower costs than our ethanol plants. 11 Absent significant growth and diversification, our ethanol plants may not be able to operate profitably in a more competitive environment. No assurance can be given that our ethanol plants will be able to compete successfully or that competition from larger companies with greater financial resources will not have a materially adverse affect on the results of our ethanol investments. The financial returns on our ethanol investments are highly dependent on commodity prices, which are subject to significant volatility and uncertainty, and the availability of supplies, so our results could fluctuate substantially. The financial returns on our ethanol investments are substantially dependent on commodity prices, especially prices for corn or other feedstock, natural gas, ethanol and unleaded gasoline. As a result of the volatility of the prices for these items, the returns may fluctuate substantially and our investments could experience periods of declining prices for their products and increasing costs for their raw materials, which could result in operating losses at our ethanol plants. Our returns on ethanol investments are highly sensitive to grain prices. Corn or sorghum is the principal raw material our ethanol plants use or plan to use to produce ethanol and co-products. As a result, changes in the price of corn or sorghum can significantly affect their businesses. Rising corn or sorghum prices result in higher costs of ethanol and co-products. Because ethanol competes with non-corn-based fuels, our ethanol plants generally will be unable to pass along increased grain costs to their customers. At certain levels, grain prices may make ethanol uneconomical. The price of corn and sorghum is influenced by weather conditions and other factors affecting crop yields, transportation costs, farmer planting decisions, exports, the value of the U.S. dollar and general economic, market and regulatory factors. These factors include government policies and subsidies with respect to agriculture and international trade, and global and local demand and supply. The significance and relative effect of these factors on the price of corn and sorghum is difficult to predict. Any event that tends to negatively affect the supply of corn or sorghum, such as adverse weather or crop disease, could increase corn and sorghum prices and potentially harm the business of our ethanol plants. Increasing domestic ethanol capacity could boost the demand for corn and sorghum and result in increased corn or sorghum prices. Our ethanol plants may also have difficulty, from time to time, in physically sourcing corn or sorghum on economical terms due to supply shortages. Such a shortage could require our ethanol plants to suspend operations which would have a material adverse effect on the financial returns on our ethanol investments. The spread between ethanol and corn and sorghum prices can vary significantly and may not return to recent high levels. The gross margin at our ethanol plants depends principally on the spread between ethanol and corn or sorghum prices. Fluctuations in the spread are likely to continue to occur. A sustained narrow spread or any further reduction in the spread between ethanol and corn prices, whether as a result of sustained high or increased corn prices or sustained low or decreased ethanol prices, would adversely affect the results of operations at our ethanol plants. Our gross profit on gallons produced at Levelland Hockley and Patriot was much lower than expected for a majority of fiscal year 2008. Should this trend continue, our ethanol plants may generate material future losses from operations. The market for natural gas is subject to market conditions that create uncertainty in the price and availability of the natural gas that our ethanol plants use in their manufacturing process. Our ethanol plants rely upon third parties for their supply of natural gas, which is consumed as fuel in the manufacture of ethanol. The prices for and availability of natural gas are subject to volatile market conditions. These market 12 conditions often are affected by factors beyond the ethanol plants’ control, such as weather conditions, overall economic conditions and foreign and domestic governmental regulation and relations. Significant disruptions in the supply of natural gas could impair the ethanol plants’ ability to economically manufacture ethanol for their customers. Furthermore, increases in natural gas prices or changes in our natural gas costs relative to natural gas costs paid by competitors may adversely affect results of operations and financial position at our ethanol plants. Fluctuations in the selling price and production costs of gasoline may reduce profit margins at our ethanol plants. Ethanol is marketed both as a fuel additive to reduce vehicle emissions from gasoline and as an octane enhancer to improve the octane rating of gasoline with which it is blended. As a result, ethanol prices are influenced by the supply and demand for gasoline and our ethanol plants’ results of operations and financial position may be materially adversely affected if gasoline demand or price decreases. New plants under construction or decreases in demand for ethanol may result in excess production capacity in the ethanol industry, which may cause the price of ethanol and/or distillers grains to decrease. According to the Renewable Fuels Association, or RFA, domestic ethanol production capacity has increased from 1.9 billion gallons per year in January 2001 to approximately 10.6 billion gallons per year at January 2009. The RFA estimates that, as of January 2009, approximately 2.1 billion gallons per year of additional production capacity is under construction. Excess capacity in the ethanol industry would have an adverse effect on the results of our ethanol investments. In a manufacturing industry with excess capacity, producers have an incentive to manufacture additional products for so long as the price exceeds the marginal cost of production (i.e., the cost of producing only the next unit, without regard for interest, overhead or fixed costs). This incentive could result in the reduction of the market price of ethanol to a level that is inadequate to generate sufficient cash flow to cover costs. Excess capacity may also result from decreases in the demand for ethanol, which could result from a number of factors, including, but not limited to, regulatory developments and reduced U.S. gasoline consumption. Reduced gasoline consumption could occur as a result of increased prices for gasoline or crude oil, which could cause businesses and consumers to reduce driving or acquire vehicles with more favorable gasoline mileage or acquire hybrid vehicles. In addition, because ethanol production produces distillers grains as a co-product, increased ethanol production will also lead to increased supplies of distillers grains. An increase in the supply of distillers grains, without corresponding increases in demand, could lead to lower prices or an inability to sell our ethanol plants’ distillers grains production. A decline in the price of distillers grains or the distillers grains market generally could have a material adverse effect on the results of our ethanol investments. Our ethanol plants may be adversely affected by technological advances and efforts to anticipate and employ such technological advances may prove unsuccessful. The development and implementation of new technologies may result in a significant reduction in the costs of ethanol production. For instance, any technological advances in the efficiency or cost to produce ethanol from inexpensive, cellulosic sources such as wheat, oat or barley straw could have an adverse effect on our ethanol plants, because those facilities are designed to produce ethanol from corn, which is, by comparison, a raw material with other high value uses. We cannot predict when new technologies may become available, the rate of acceptance of new technologies by competitors or the costs associated with new technologies. In addition, advances in the development of alternatives to ethanol could significantly reduce demand for or eliminate the need for ethanol. 13 Any advances in technology which require significant unanticipated capital expenditures to remain competitive or which reduce demand or prices for ethanol would have a material adverse effect on the results of our ethanol investments. In addition, alternative fuels, additives and oxygenates are continually under development. Alternative fuel additives that can replace ethanol may be developed, which may decrease the demand for ethanol. It is also possible that technological advances in engine and exhaust system design and performance could reduce the use of oxygenates, which would lower the demand for ethanol, and the results of our ethanol investments may be materially adversely affected. The U.S. ethanol industry is highly dependent upon a myriad of federal and state legislation and regulation and any changes in legislation or regulation could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. The elimination or significant reduction of the blenders’ credit could have a material adverse effect on the results of our ethanol investments. The cost of production of ethanol is made significantly more competitive with regular gasoline by federal tax incentives. The federal excise tax incentive program currently allows gasoline distributors who blend ethanol with gasoline to receive a federal excise tax rate reduction for each blended gallon they sell. If the fuel is blended with 10% ethanol, the refiner/marketer paid $0.051 per gallon less tax in 2008, which equates to an incentive of $0.51 per gallon of ethanol (effective January 1, 2009, it was reduced to $0.45 per gallon.). The $0.45 per gallon incentive for ethanol is scheduled to expire in 2010. The blenders’ credit could be eliminated or reduced at any time through an act of Congress and may not be renewed in 2010 or may be renewed on different terms. In addition, the blenders’ credit, as well as other federal and state programs benefiting ethanol (such as tariffs), generally are subject to U.S. government obligations under international trade agreements, including those under the World Trade Organization Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures, and might be the subject of challenges thereunder, in whole or in part. Ethanol can be imported into the U.S. duty-free from some countries, which may undermine the ethanol industry in the U.S. Imported ethanol is generally subject to a $0.54 per gallon tariff that was designed to offset the $0.45 per gallon ethanol incentive that is available under the federal excise tax incentive program for refineries that blend ethanol in their fuel. A special exemption from the tariff exists for ethanol imported from 24 countries in Central America and the Caribbean Islands, which is limited to a total of 7% of U.S. production per year. Imports from the exempted countries may increase as a result of new plants under development. Since production costs for ethanol in these countries are estimated to be significantly less than what they are in the U.S., the duty-free import of ethanol through the countries exempted from the tariff may negatively affect the demand for domestic ethanol and the price at which our ethanol plants sell ethanol. Any changes in the tariff or exemption from the tariff could have a material adverse effect on the results of our ethanol investments. In addition, the North America Free Trade Agreement, or NAFTA, which entered into force on January 1, 1994, allows Canada and Mexico to export ethanol to the United States duty-free. The effect of the renewable fuel standard (“RFS”) program in the Energy Independence and Security Act signed into law on December 19, 2007 (the “2007 Act”) is uncertain. The mandated minimum level of use of renewable fuels in the RFS under the 2007 Act increased to 9 billion gallons per year in 2008 (from 5.4 billion gallons under the RFS enacted in 2005), further increasing to 36 billion gallons per year in 2022. The 2007 Act also requires the increased use of “advanced” biofuels, which are alternative biofuels produced without using corn starch such as cellulosic ethanol and biomass-based diesel, with 21 billion gallons of the mandated 36 billion gallons of renewable fuel required to come from advanced biofuels by 2022. Required RFS volumes for both general and advanced renewable fuels in years to follow 2022 will be determined by a governmental administrator, in coordination with the U.S. Department of Energy and U.S. Department of Agriculture. Increased competition from other types of biofuels could have a material adverse effect on the results of our ethanol investments. 14 The RFS program and the 2007 Act also include provisions allowing “credits” to be granted to fuel producers who blend in their fuel more than the required percentage of renewable fuels in a given year. These credits may be used in subsequent years to satisfy RFS production percentage and volume standards and may be traded to other parties. The accumulation of excess credits could further reduce the impact of the RFS mandate schedule and result in a lower ethanol price or could result in greater fluctuations in demand for ethanol from year to year, both of which could have a material adverse effect on the results of our ethanol investments. Waivers of the RFS minimum levels of renewable fuels included in gasoline could have a material adverse effect on the results of our ethanol investments. Under the RFS as passed as part of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, in consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of Energy, may waive the renewable fuels mandate with respect to one or more states if the Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, determines upon the petition of one or more states that implementing the requirements would severely harm the economy or the environment of a state, a region or the U.S., or that there is inadequate supply to meet the requirement. In addition, the 2007 Act allows any other person subject to the requirements of the RFS or the EPA Administrator to file a petition for such a waiver. Any waiver of the RFS with respect to one or more states could adversely offset demand for ethanol and could have a material adverse effect on the results of our ethanol investments. Various studies have criticized the efficiency of ethanol, in general, and corn-based ethanol in particular, which could lead to the reduction or repeal of incentives and tariffs that promote the use and domestic production of ethanol or otherwise negatively impact public perception and acceptance of ethanol as an alternative fuel. Although many trade groups, academics and governmental agencies have supported ethanol as a fuel additive that promotes a cleaner environment, others have criticized ethanol production as consuming considerably more energy and emitting more greenhouse gases than other biofuels and as potentially depleting water resources. Other studies have suggested that corn-based ethanol is less efficient than ethanol produced from switchgrass or wheat grain and that it negatively impacts consumers by causing prices for dairy, meat and other foodstuffs from livestock that consume corn to increase. If these views gain acceptance, support for existing measures promoting use and domestic production of corn-based ethanol could decline, leading to reduction or repeal of these measures. These views could also negatively impact public perception of the ethanol industry and acceptance of ethanol as an alternative fuel. Levelland Hockley’s water treatment plant is not functioning as planned. The reverse osmosis water treatment plant built to supply water from a wastewater treatment facility to its ethanol plant is not able to generate an adequate supply of water in order for the plant to function at full capacity. To date, Levelland Hockley has been able to locate alternative sources of water to sustain plant operations. However, Levelland Hockley has no long term alternative water supply agreements. If Levelland Hockley cannot correct the deficiencies at its water treatment plant or successfully sustain alternative supplies of water, the ability of the plant to continue operations could be significantly impacted which could result in material losses. The debt agreements for the ethanol plants contain restrictive financial and performance covenants. Ethanol facility debt covenants contain several financial and performance restrictions. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the applicable agreement. If a default were to occur, we would likely seek a waiver of that default, attempt to reset the covenant, or refinance the instrument and accompanying obligations. If we were unable to obtain this relief, the default could result in the acceleration of the total due related to that debt obligation. If a default were to occur, we may not be able to pay our debts or borrow sufficient funds to refinance them. In addition, certain lease agreements could also be in default if a 15 default of the debt agreement occurs. Any of these events, if they occur, could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the results of our ethanol investments. Levelland Hockley, One Earth and Patriot all have forward interest rate swaps at January 31, 2009. During fiscal year 2008, we recognized losses on these swaps of approximately $3.8 million. Further reductions in interest rates could increase the liability position of the interest rate swaps, requiring us to record additional expense which could be material. The liability for these interest rate swaps could also result in a default of the term loan agreements’ restrictive financial covenants. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 