Item 1A. Risk Factors We encourage you to carefully consider the risks described below and other information contained in this report when considering an investment decision in REX common stock. Any of the events discussed in the risk factors below may occur. If one or more of these events do occur, our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In this instance, the trading price of REX stock could decline, and investors might lose all or part of their investment. We have concentrations of cash deposits at financial institutions that exceed federal insurance limits. We generally have cash deposits that exceed federal insurance limits. Should the financial institutions we deposit our cash at experience insolvency or other financial difficulty, our access to cash deposits could be limited. In extreme cases, we could lose our cash deposits entirely. This would negatively impact our liquidity and results of operations. The current interest rate environment has resulted in lower yields on our excess cash. We have experienced lower yields on our excess cash compared to historical yields. Should the present economic conditions result in a sustained period of historically low interest rates, our interest income would be negatively impacted. Risks Related to our Synthetic Fuel Investments and Income Tax Benefits We face synthetic fuel risks as future IRS audits may result in the disallowance of previously recognized tax credits. We have recognized investment income of approximately $4.7 million from the sales of our partnership interests from years that the partnerships have not been audited by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). Should the tax credits be denied on any future audit and we fail to prevail through the IRS or the legal process, there could be significant refunds of previously recognized income with a significant adverse impact on earnings and cash flows. The production and sale of synthetic fuel qualified for Section 29/45K tax credits if certain requirements were satisfied, including a requirement that the synthetic fuel differs significantly in chemical composition from the coal used to produce the synthetic fuel and that the fuel was produced from a facility placed in service before July 1, 1998. 9 We may not be able to generate sufficient taxable income to realize our deferred tax assets. We have approximately $23.6 million of alternative minimum tax (“AMT”) credit carryforwards and approximately $7.6 million of federal net operating loss carryforwards recorded as deferred tax assets on our consolidated financial statements. Should future results of operations or other factors cause us to determine that it is not more likely than not that we will generate sufficient taxable income to fully utilize our deferred tax assets, we would then be required to establish a valuation allowance against such deferred tax assets. We would increase our income tax expense by the amount of the tax benefit we do not expect to realize. This would negatively impact our net income (loss) and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial position. Risks Related to our Alternative Energy Business The ethanol industry is changing rapidly which could result in unexpected developments that could negatively impact our operations. The ethanol industry has grown significantly in recent years. According to the RFA, the ethanol industry has grown from approximately 1.5 billion gallons of annual ethanol production in 1999 to approximately 13.4 billion gallons of annual ethanol production in 2012. Thus, there have been significant changes in the supply and demand of ethanol over a relatively short period of time which could lead to difficulty in maintaining profitable operations at our ethanol plants. If cash flow from operations of our ethanol plants is not sufficient to service debt, the plants could fail and we could lose our entire investment. Our ethanol plants financed approximately 60% of plant construction cost with debt. The debt typically has a balloon payment due after five years. The ability of each company owning the plant to repay borrowings incurred will depend upon the plant’s financial and operating performance. The cash flows and capital resources of an ethanol plant may be insufficient to repay its debt obligations. If a plant cannot service its debt, it may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, restructure its indebtedness or seek additional capital. If unable to do so, the value of our investment could decline significantly. The institutional senior lenders to the companies which own and operate our ethanol plants hold liens on the plant’s assets. If a company fails to make its debt service payments, the senior lender will have the right to repossess the plant’s assets in addition to other remedies, which are superior to our rights as an equity investor. Such action could have a material adverse impact on our investment in the ethanol plant. We operate in a capital intensive industry. Limitations to external financing could adversely affect our financial performance. In general, continued volatility in the capital markets has resulted in reduced availability of capital for the ethanol industry. We may need to incur additional financing to fund growth of our business or in times of increasing liquidity requirements (such as increases in raw material costs). Any delays to obtain additional financing, or our inability to do so, could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. 10 The financial returns on our ethanol investments are highly dependent on commodity prices, which are subject to significant volatility and uncertainty, and the availability of supplies, so our results could fluctuate substantially. The financial returns on our ethanol investments are substantially dependent on commodity prices, especially prices for corn or other feedstock, natural gas, ethanol and unleaded gasoline. As a result of the volatility of the prices for these items, the returns may fluctuate substantially and our investments could experience periods of declining prices for their products and increasing costs for their raw materials, which could result in operating losses at our ethanol plants. Our returns on ethanol investments are highly sensitive to grain prices. Corn is the principal raw material our ethanol plants use to produce ethanol and co-products. As a result, changes in the price of corn can significantly affect their businesses. Rising corn prices result in higher costs of ethanol and co-products. Because ethanol competes with non-corn-based fuels, our ethanol plants may not be able to pass along increased grain costs to their customers. At certain levels, grain prices may make ethanol uneconomical to produce. The price of corn is influenced by weather conditions and other factors affecting crop yields, transportation costs, farmer planting decisions, exports, the value of the U.S. dollar and general economic, market and regulatory factors. These factors include government policies and subsidies with respect to agriculture and international trade and global and local demand and supply. The significance and relative effect of these factors on the price of corn is difficult to predict. Any event that tends to negatively affect the supply of corn, such as adverse weather or crop disease, could increase corn prices and potentially harm the business of our ethanol plants. Increasing domestic ethanol capacity could boost the demand for corn and result in increased corn prices. Much of the Midwestern United States experienced drought conditions during 2012 which led to a smaller harvest of corn and increased corn prices. Our ethanol plants may also have difficulty, from time to time, in physically sourcing corn on economical terms due to supply shortages. Such a shortage could require our ethanol plants to suspend operations which would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations. The spread between ethanol and corn prices can vary significantly. The gross margin at our ethanol plants depends principally on the spread between ethanol and corn prices. Fluctuations in the spread are likely to continue to occur. A sustained narrow or negative spread or any further reduction in the spread between ethanol and corn prices, whether as a result of sustained high or increased corn prices or sustained low or decreased ethanol prices, would adversely affect the results of operations at our ethanol plants. Our risk management strategies may be ineffective and may expose us to decreased profitability and liquidity. In an attempt to partially offset the impact of volatility of commodity prices, we enter into forward contracts to sell a portion of our ethanol and distillers grains production and to purchase a portion of our corn and natural gas requirements. The financial impact of these risk management activities is dependent upon, among other items, the prices involved and our ability to receive or deliver the commodities involved. Risk management activities can result in financial loss when positions are purchased in a declining market or when positions are sold in an increasing market. We vary the amount of risk management techniques we utilize, and we may choose not to engage in any risk management activities. Should we fail to properly manage the inherent volatility of commodities prices, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. The market for natural gas is subject to market conditions that create uncertainty in the price and availability of the natural gas that our ethanol plants use in their manufacturing process. Our ethanol plants rely upon third parties for their supply of natural gas, which is consumed as fuel in the production of 11 ethanol. The prices for and availability of natural gas are subject to volatile market conditions. These market conditions often are affected by factors beyond the ethanol plants’ control, such as weather conditions, overall economic conditions and foreign and domestic governmental regulation and relations. Significant disruptions in the supply of natural gas could impair the ethanol plants’ ability to economically manufacture ethanol for their customers. Furthermore, increases in natural gas prices or changes in our natural gas costs relative to natural gas costs paid by competitors may adversely affect results of operations and financial position at our ethanol plants. Fluctuations in the selling price of commodities may reduce profit margins at our ethanol plants. Ethanol is marketed as a fuel additive to reduce vehicle emissions from gasoline, as an octane enhancer to improve the octane rating of gasoline with which it is blended and, to a lesser extent, as a gasoline substitute. As a result, ethanol prices are influenced by the supply and demand for gasoline and our ethanol plants’ results of operations and financial position may be materially adversely affected if gasoline demand decreases. Distillers grains compete with other protein based animal feed products. The price of distillers grains may decrease when the prices of competing feed products decrease. The prices of competing animal feed products are based in part on the prices of the commodities from which their products are made. Historically, sales prices for distillers grains have tracked along with the price of corn. However, there have been instances when the price increase for distillers grains has lagged price increases in corn prices. The production of distillers grains has increased as a result of increases in dry mill ethanol production in the United States. This could lead to price declines in what we can sell our distillers grains for in the future. Such declines could have an adverse material effect on our results of operations. Increased ethanol production or decreases in demand for ethanol may result in excess production capacity in the ethanol industry, which may cause the price of ethanol, distillers grains and non-food grade corn oil to decrease. According to the RFA, domestic ethanol production nameplate capacity is approximately 14.8 billion gallons per year at January 2013. The RFA estimates that, as of January 2013, approximately 50 million gallons per year of additional production capacity is under construction. Current ethanol production capacity exceeds the 2013 RFS requirement which can be satisfied by corn based ethanol (13.8 billion gallons). Excess capacity in the ethanol industry could have an adverse effect on the results of our ethanol operations. In a manufacturing industry with excess capacity, producers have an incentive to manufacture additional products for so long as the price exceeds the marginal cost of production (i.e., the cost of producing only the next unit, without regard for interest, overhead or fixed costs). This incentive could result in the reduction of the market price of ethanol to a level that is inadequate to generate sufficient cash flow to cover costs. Excess capacity may also result from decreases in the demand for ethanol, which could result from a number of factors, including, but not limited to, regulatory developments and reduced U.S. gasoline consumption. Reduced gasoline consumption could occur as a result of increased prices for gasoline or crude oil, which could cause businesses and consumers to reduce driving or acquire vehicles with more favorable gasoline mileage or acquire hybrid vehicles. In addition, because ethanol production produces distillers grains and non-food grade corn oil as co-products, increased ethanol production will also lead to increased supplies of distillers grains and non-food grade corn oil. An increase in the supply of distillers grains and non-food grade corn oil, without corresponding increases in demand, could lead to lower prices or an inability to sell our ethanol plants’ distillers grains and non-food grade corn oil production. A decline in the price of distillers grains or non-food grade corn oil could have a material adverse effect on the results of our ethanol operations. 12 Trade restrictions on ethanol exports could reduce the demand for ethanol. The European Union began imposing a tariff, on ethanol imported from the United States, of $83.03 per metric ton effective February 23, 2013. If producers and exporters of ethanol are subject to trade restrictions, or additional duties are imposed on exports, it may make it uneconomical to export ethanol. This could result in an oversupply of ethanol in the United States which could have a material adverse effect on the results of our ethanol operations. We depend on our partners to operate certain of our ethanol investments. Our investments currently represent both majority and minority equity positions. Day-to-day operating control of minority owned plants generally remains with the local farmers’ cooperative or investor group that has promoted the plant. We may not have the ability to directly modify the operations of these plants in response to changes in the business environment or in response to any deficiencies in local operations of the plants. In addition, local plant operators, who also represent the primary suppliers of corn and other crops to the plants, may have interests, such as the price and sourcing of corn and other crops, that may differ from our interest, which is based solely on the operating profit of the plant. The limitations on our ability to control day-to-day plant operations could adversely affect plant results of operations. We may not successfully acquire or develop additional ethanol investments. The growth of our ethanol business depends on our ability to identify and develop new ethanol investments. Our ethanol development strategy depends on referrals, and introductions, to new investment opportunities from industry participants, such as ethanol plant builders, financial institutions, marketing agents and others. We must continue to maintain favorable relationships with these industry participants, and a material disruption in these sources of referrals would adversely affect our ability to expand our ethanol investments. Any expansion strategy will depend on prevailing market conditions for the price of ethanol and the costs of corn and natural gas and the expectations of future market conditions. There is increasing competition for suitable sites for ethanol plants. Even if suitable sites or opportunities are identified, we may not be able to secure the services and products from contractors, engineering firms, construction firms and equipment suppliers necessary to build or expand ethanol plants on a timely basis or on acceptable economic terms. Construction costs associated with expansion may increase to levels that would make a new plant too expensive to complete or unprofitable to operate. Additional financing may also be necessary to implement any expansion strategy, which may not be accessible or available on acceptable terms. Our ethanol plants may be adversely affected by technological advances and efforts to anticipate and employ such technological advances may prove unsuccessful. The development and implementation of new technologies may result in a significant reduction in the costs of ethanol production. For instance, any technological advances in the efficiency or cost to produce ethanol from inexpensive, cellulosic sources such as wheat, oat or barley straw could have an adverse effect on our ethanol plants, because those facilities are designed to produce ethanol from corn, which is, by comparison, a raw material with other high value uses. We cannot predict when new technologies may become available, the rate of acceptance of new technologies by competitors or the costs associated with new technologies. In addition, advances in the development of alternatives to ethanol could significantly reduce demand for or eliminate the need for ethanol. 13 Any advances in technology which require significant unanticipated capital expenditures to remain competitive or which reduce demand or prices for ethanol would have a material adverse effect on the results of our ethanol operations. In addition, alternative fuels, additives and oxygenates are continually under development. Alternative fuel additives that can replace ethanol may be developed, which may decrease the demand for ethanol. It is also possible that technological advances in engine and exhaust system design and performance could reduce the use of oxygenates, which would lower the demand for ethanol, and the results of our ethanol operations may be materially adversely affected. The U.S. ethanol industry is highly dependent upon a myriad of federal and state legislation and regulation and any changes in legislation or regulation could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. The effect of the renewable fuel standard (“RFS”) program in the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 (the “2007 Act”) is uncertain. The domestic market for ethanol is largely dictated by federal mandates for blending ethanol with gasoline. The RFS mandate level for conventional biofuels for 2013 of 13.8 billion gallons is lower than current constructed nameplate capacity of approximately 14.8 billion gallons. Future demand will be largely dependent upon the economic incentives to blend based upon the relative value of gasoline versus ethanol, taking into consideration the relative octane value of ethanol, environmental requirements and the RFS. Any significant increase in production capacity beyond the RFS level could have a negative impact on ethanol prices. Additionally, the RFS mandate with respect to ethanol derived from grain could be reduced or waived entirely. In August 2012, governors from eight states petitioned the EPA for a waiver of the RFS requirements. The EPA announced on November 16, 2012 that the request for waivers of the RFS requirements was denied. A reduction or waiver of the RFS mandate could negatively affect ethanol prices and our future performance. The RFS Flexibility Act was introduced on October 5, 2011 in the U.S. House of Representatives to reduce or eliminate the volumes of renewable fuel use required by RFS based upon corn stocks-to-use ratios. The Domestic Alternative Fuels Act of 2012 was introduced on January 18, 2012 in the U.S. House of Representatives to modify the RFS to include ethanol and other fuels produced from fossil fuels like coal and natural gas. Our operations and resulting financial performance could be adversely impacted if the RFS Flexibility Act or the Domestic Alternative Fuels Act of 2012 are enacted into law. The elimination of the blender’s credit could have a material adverse effect on the results of our ethanol operations. The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 created the Volumetric Ethanol Tax Credit, referred to as the “blender’s credit.” This credit allowed gasoline distributors who blended ethanol with gasoline to receive a federal excise tax credit of $0.45 per gallon of pure ethanol, or $0.045 per gallon if blended with 10% ethanol (E-10), and $0.3825 per gallon if blended with 85% ethanol (E-85). The $0.45 per gallon incentive for ethanol expired on December 31, 2011. This credit was a significant benefit to our customers and the elimination of this credit makes our product less attractive to customers. Changes in corporate average fuel economy standards could adversely impact ethanol prices. Flexible fuel vehicles receive preferential treatment in meeting federally mandated corporate average fuel economy (“CAFE”) standards for automobiles manufactured by car makers. High blend ethanol fuels such as E-85 result in lower fuel efficiencies. Absent the CAFE preferences, car makers would not likely build flexible-fuel vehicles. Any change in CAFE preferences could reduce the growth of E-85 markets and result in lower ethanol prices. Various studies have criticized the efficiency of ethanol, in general, and corn-based ethanol in particular, which could lead to the reduction or repeal of incentives and tariffs that promote the use 14 and domestic production of ethanol or otherwise negatively impact public perception and acceptance of ethanol as an alternative fuel. Although many trade groups, academics and governmental agencies have supported ethanol as a fuel additive that promotes a cleaner environment, others have criticized ethanol production as consuming considerably more energy and emitting more greenhouse gases than other biofuels and as potentially depleting water resources. Other studies have suggested that corn-based ethanol is less efficient than ethanol produced from switchgrass or wheat grain and that it negatively impacts consumers by causing prices for dairy, meat and other foodstuffs from livestock that consume corn to increase. If these views gain acceptance, support for existing measures promoting use and domestic production of corn-based ethanol could decline, leading to reduction or repeal of these measures. These views could also negatively impact public perception of the ethanol industry and acceptance of ethanol as an alternative fuel. Federal support of cellulosic ethanol may result in reduced incentives to corn-derived ethanol producers. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 and the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 provide funding opportunities in support of cellulosic ethanol obtained from biomass sources such as switchgrass and poplar trees. The amended RFS mandates an increasing level of production of non-corn derived biofuels. These federal policies may suggest a long-term political preference for cellulosic processes using alternative feedstocks such as switchgrass, silage or wood chips. Cellulosic ethanol has a smaller carbon footprint and is unlikely to divert foodstuff from the market. Several cellulosic ethanol plants are under development and there is a risk that cellulosic ethanol could displace corn ethanol. Our plants are designed as single-feedstock facilities, located in corn production areas with limited alternative feedstock nearby, and would require significant additional investment to convert to the production of cellulosic ethanol. The adoption of cellulosic ethanol as the preferred form of ethanol could have a significant adverse effect on our ethanol business. Our ethanol business is affected by environmental and other regulations which could impede or prohibit our ability to successfully operate our plants. Our ethanol production facilities are subject to extensive air, water and other environmental regulations. We have had to obtain numerous permits to construct and operate our plants. Regulatory agencies could impose conditions or other restrictions in the permits that are detrimental or which increase our costs. More stringent federal or state environmental regulations could be adopted which could significantly increase our operating costs or require us to expend considerable resources. Our ethanol plants emit various airborne pollutants as by-products of the ethanol production process, including carbon dioxide. In 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court classified carbon dioxide as an air pollutant under the Clean Air Act in a case seeking to require the EPA to regulate carbon dioxide in vehicle emissions. In February 2010, the EPA released its final regulations on the Renewable Fuel Standard program (RFS2). We believe our plants are grandfathered at their current operating capacity, but plant expansion will need to meet a 20% threshold reduction in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from a 2005 baseline measurement to produce ethanol eligible for the RFS2 mandate. To expand our plant capacity, we may be required to obtain additional permits, install advanced technology equipment, or reduce drying of certain amounts of distillers grains. We may also be required to install carbon dioxide mitigation equipment or take other steps in order to comply with future laws or regulations. Compliance with future laws or regulations of carbon dioxide, or if we choose to expand capacity at certain of our plants, compliance with then-current regulations of carbon dioxide, could be costly and may prevent us from operating our plants as profitably, which may have a negative impact on our financial performance. 15 The California Air Resources Board (“CARB”) has adopted a Low Carbon Fuel Standard (“LCFS”) requiring a 10% reduction in GHG emissions from transportation fuels by 2020. An Indirect Land Use Charge is included in this lifecycle GHG emission calculation. On December 29, 2011, the U.S. District court for the Eastern District of California issued several rulings in federal lawsuits challenging the LCFS. One of the rulings preliminarily prevents CARB from enforcing these regulations during the pending litigation. On January 23, 2012, CARB unsuccessfully attempted to appeal these rulings in the U.S. District court for the Eastern District of California and on January 26, 2012 filed another appeal with the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. While this standard is currently being challenged by various lawsuits, implementation of such a standard may have an adverse impact on the market for corn based ethanol in California. While this standard is being challenged by lawsuits, implementation of such a standard could have an adverse impact on the market for corn-based ethanol in California if corn-based ethanol fails to achieve lifecycle GHG emission reductions. This could have a negative impact on our financial performance. Our ethanol business may become subject to various environmental and health and safety and property damage claims and liabilities. Operations of our ethanol business will expose the business to the risk of environmental and health and safety claims and property damage claims, such as failure to comply with environmental regulations. These types of claims could also be made against our ethanol business based upon the acts or omissions of other persons. Serious claims could have a material negative impact on our results of operations, financial position and future cash flows. Our business is not significantly diversified. Our financial results depend heavily on our ability to operate our ethanol plants profitably. We do not have significant other lines of business or other sources of revenue to depend upon if we are unable to operate our ethanol plants profitably. Such lack of significant diversification could have a material negative impact on our results of operations, financial position and future cash flows should our ethanol plants operate unprofitably. Our revenue from the sale of distillers grains depends upon its continued market acceptance as an animal feed. Distillers grains is a co-product from the fermentation of corn to produce ethanol. Antibiotics may be used during the fermentation process to control bacterial contamination; therefore antibiotics may be present in small quantities in distillers grains marketed as animal feed. The U. S. Food and Drug Administration’s, or FDA’s, Center for Veterinary Medicine has expressed concern about potential animal and human health hazards from the use of distillers grains as an animal feed due to the possibility of antibiotic residues. If the public became concerned about the impact of distillers grains in the food supply or as an acceptable animal feed, the market for distillers grains could be negatively impacted, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations. At certain of our plants, we extract and sell non-food grade corn oil immediately prior to the production of distillers grains. Several studies are trying to determine how non-food grade corn oil extraction may impact the nutritional value of the resulting distillers grains. If it is determined that non-food grade corn oil extraction adversely impacts the energy content of distillers grains, the value of the distillers grains we sell may be negatively impacted, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations. 16 The price of distillers grains may decline as a result of restrictions or duties on distillers grains exports from the United Sates. Exports of distiller grains produced in the United States have been increasing in recent years. However, the export market may be jeopardized if foreign governments impose trade barriers or other measures to protect the foreign local markets. If producers and exporters of distillers grains are subjected to trade barriers when selling distillers grains to foreign customers, there may be a reduction in the price of distillers grains in the United States. Declines in the price we receive for our distillers grains could lead to decreased revenues and may result in our inability to operate our ethanol plants profitably. We face significant competition in the ethanol industry. We face significant competition for new ethanol investment opportunities. There are varied enterprises seeking to participate in the ethanol industry. Some enterprises provide financial and management support similar to our business model. Other enterprises seek to acquire or develop plants which they will directly own and operate. Many of our competitors are larger and have greater financial resources and name recognition than we do. We must compete for investment opportunities based on our strategy of supporting and enhancing local development of ethanol plant opportunities. We may not be successful in competing for investment opportunities based on our strategy. The ethanol industry is primarily comprised of smaller entities that engage exclusively in ethanol production and large integrated grain companies that produce ethanol along with their base grain business. Several large oil companies have entered the ethanol production market. If these companies increase their ethanol plant ownership or other oil companies seek to engage in direct ethanol production, there would be less of a need to purchase ethanol from independent producers like our ethanol plants. Larger firms offer efficiencies and economies of scale, resulting in lower costs of production. In addition, plants sold as part of a bankruptcy proceeding may have significantly lower fixed costs than our ethanol plants. Absent significant growth and diversification, our ethanol plants may not be able to operate profitably in a more competitive environment. No assurance can be given that our ethanol plants will be able to compete successfully or that competition from larger companies with greater financial resources will not have a materially adverse impact on the results of our ethanol operations. We may face competition from foreign companies. There is a risk of foreign competition in the ethanol industry. Brazil is presently the second largest producer of ethanol in the world. Brazil’s ethanol production, which is sugarcane based, has historically been cheaper to produce than corn-based ethanol. If significant additional foreign ethanol production capacity is created, such facilities could create excess supplies of ethanol, which may result in lower prices of ethanol. In addition, foreign ethanol producers may be able to produce ethanol at costs lower than ours. These risks could have significant adverse effects on our financial performance. In addition, the tariff that protected the U.S. ethanol industry expired at the end of 2011. The U. S. ethanol industry experienced increased competition from ethanol producers outside of the U. S. during 2012. The expiration of the tariff could lead to continued increases in the import of ethanol produced outside of the U.S. We are exposed to credit risk from our sales of ethanol and distillers grains to customers. 17 The inability of a customer to make payments to us for our accounts receivable may cause us to experience losses and may adversely impact our liquidity and our ability to make our payments when due. We may not be able to hire and retain qualified personnel to operate our ethanol plants. Our ability to attract and retain competent personnel has a significant impact on operating efficiencies and plant profitability. Competition for key plant employees in the ethanol industry can be intense, and we may not be able to attract and retain qualified employees. Failure to do so could have a negative impact on our financial results at individual plants. Our plants depend on an uninterrupted supply of energy and water to operate. Unforeseen plant shutdowns could harm our business. Our plants require a significant and uninterrupted supply of natural gas, electricity and water to operate. We generally rely on third parties to provide these resources. If there is an interruption in the supply of energy or water for any reason, such as supply, delivery or mechanical problems and we are unable to secure an adequate alternative supply to sustain plant operations, we may be required to stop production. A production halt for an extended period of time could result in material losses. Potential business disruption from factors outside our control, including natural disasters, severe weather conditions, accidents, strikes, unexpected equipment failures and unforeseen plant shutdowns, could adversely affect our cash flow and operating results. The debt agreements for the ethanol plants contain restrictive financial and performance covenants. Our subsidiaries that operate ethanol plants (“ethanol subsidiaries”) have debt agreements that contain covenants with several financial and performance restrictions. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the applicable agreement. If a default were to occur, the ethanol subsidiary would likely seek a waiver of that default, attempt to reset the covenant, or refinance the instrument and accompanying obligations. If the ethanol subsidiary was unable to obtain this relief, the default could result in the acceleration of the total due related to that debt obligation. If a default were to occur, the ethanol subsidiary may not be able to pay its debts or borrow sufficient funds to refinance them. In addition, certain lease agreements could also be in default if a default of the debt agreement occurs. In the past, we have received waivers from our lenders for failure to meet certain financial covenants and have amended our subsidiary loan agreements to change these covenants. No assurance can be given that, if we are unable to comply with these covenants in the future, we will be able to obtain the necessary waivers or amend our subsidiary loan agreements to prevent a default. Any of these events, if they occur, could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. The debt agreements for the ethanol plants limit, or otherwise restrict the amount of dividends and other payments the ethanol subsidiaries can transfer to their members. We are dependent on dividends from our ethanol subsidiaries to generate cash flow. Presently, all of our ethanol subsidiaries have debt agreements that limit payments to members. Therefore, these companies cannot distribute all of the cash they generate to their members. Furthermore, we may not be able to use the excess cash flow from one subsidiary to fund corporate needs or needs of another operating ethanol subsidiary. 18 Changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the results of our ethanol operations. One Earth has an interest rate swap at January 31, 2013 that, in essence, fixes the interest rate on a portion of its variable rate debt. During fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010, we recognized losses on this swap. Further reductions in interest rates could increase the liability position of the interest rate swap, requiring us to record additional expense which could be material. The liability for this interest rate swap could also result in a default of the term loan agreement’s restrictive financial covenants. In addition, increases in interest rates could have a negative impact on results of operations as all of the debt our ethanol plants have is variable rate debt. Furthermore, the interest rate swap does not fix the interest rate on the entire portion of the related debt. We rely on information technology in our operations and financial reporting and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security breach of that technology could harm our ability to efficiently operate our business and report our financial results accurately and timely. We rely heavily on information technology systems across our operations, including for management of inventory, purchase orders, production, invoices, shipping, accounting and various other processes and transactions. Our ability to effectively manage our business, coordinate the production, distribution and sale of our products and ensure the timely and accurate recording and disclosure of financial information depends significantly on the reliability and capacity of these systems. The failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, or a breach in security of these systems through a cyber-attack or otherwise could cause delays in product sales, reduced efficiency of our operations and delays in reporting our financial results. Significant capital investments could be required to remediate any such problem. Security breaches of employee information or other confidential or proprietary data could also adversely impact our reputation, and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties. Risks Related to the Exit of our Retail business and Risks Related to our Real Estate Segment. Our future costs associated with administering extended product service contracts may result in higher than expected costs. We will continue to administer extended product service contracts that have contractual maturities over the next year. To the extent we do not have products or an adequate repair service network to satisfy warranty claims, we may incur material costs as we would be required to refund cash to customers for warranted products. We have a significant amount of vacant warehouse and retail space after the completion of the wind down of our retail business. At January 31, 2013, we own one distribution facility and 11 former retail store properties comprising approximately 250,000 square feet of vacant real estate. We are currently marketing these facilities for lease or sale. We may not be able to successfully lease or sell these properties which could result in lost opportunities for revenue or future impairment charges related to the carrying value of the associated assets. We also have costs related to the vacant properties such as property taxes and utilities that we would have to bear without any revenue from such properties. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 19 