Item 1A. Risk Factors We encourage you to carefully consider the risks described below and other information contained in this report when considering an investment decision in REX common stock. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to management, or that management currently deems immaterial, may also impair our business operations. Any of the events discussed in the risk factors below may occur. If one or more of these events do occur, our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In this instance, the trading price of REX stock could decline, and investors might lose all or part of their investment. Risks Related to our Retail Business We face significant competition from other retailers many of whom have greater financial resources. This could result in a decline of our sales and profitability. 14 We face significant competition from a diverse group of retailers. Our competitors include national and regional large format merchandisers and superstores such as Best Buy Co., Inc., Lowe’s Corporation, Home Depot, Inc. and Circuit City Stores, Inc., other specialty electronics retailers including RadioShack Corporation, department and discount stores such as Sears, Roebuck and Co. and Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., furniture stores, warehouse clubs, home improvement retailers and Internet and store-based retailers who sell consumer electronics and home appliance products online. We also compete with small chains and specialty single-store operators in some markets, as well as Sears’ dealer-operated units. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources than us, which may increase their ability to purchase inventory at a lower cost, better withstand economic downturns or engage in aggressive price competition. We expect competition within the consumer electronics/appliance retailing industry to increase. National merchandisers continue to expand their geographic markets and enter markets traditionally served by us. In the event that competitors enter markets we serve, we may experience pricing pressures, reduced gross margins and declines in comparable store sales. A decline in economic conditions could lead to reduced consumer demand for the products we sell. Demand for consumer electronics and home appliance products is dependent upon various economic factors outside of our control. These factors include: general economic conditions; consumer confidence; consumer spending patterns and preferences; and new housing starts. A slowdown in the national or regional economies or an uncertain economic outlook could adversely affect discretionary consumer spending habits and negatively impact our sales and operating results. If new products are not introduced or consumers do not accept new products, our sales may decline. We rely upon the periodic introduction of new products to help stimulate consumer demand. The lack of new products could reduce consumer interest and lower our sales. In addition, many products which incorporate the newest technologies, such as high definition television, are subject to technological and pricing limitations and may not achieve widespread or rapid consumer acceptance in the markets we serve. If these new products do not meet with widespread or rapid market acceptance, our results of operations may be impaired. Furthermore, the introduction or expected introduction of new products may depress sales of existing products and technologies. Government mandates for such areas as high definition television tuners can increase production costs and lead to higher retail prices that could reduce product acceptance. Other mandates include the Department of Energy compliance mandates for major appliances that will be in effect in 2007. This could also lead to higher retail prices and a slowdown in overall product demand. If we do not adequately anticipate and respond to changing consumer demand and preferences, our results of operations may be impaired. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to changing consumer demand and preferences regarding consumer electronics and home appliances. Our failure to adequately anticipate and respond to these changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, 15 results of operation and financial condition either from lost sales or lower margins due to the need to mark down excess inventory. Our opportunistic product buying strategy could negatively impact our sales and gross margins. When available, we may purchase large quantities of merchandise on an opportunistic or when-available basis at favorable prices. Our inability to find suitable opportunistic product buying opportunities could negatively impact our sales and gross margins. As manufacturers move to more market-driven, supply chain management strategies, the opportunities for opportunistic purchases may decline. Products purchased on an opportunistic basis generally are held in inventory longer than our other products. This can result in increased inventory levels and lower inventory turnover, which increase our working capital requirements and inventory carrying costs. Increased inventory levels and lower turnover rates also increase the risk of inventory mark-downs. The introduction of digitally-based display products such as plasma, LCD and other micro display products has shortened product life cycles and introduced a higher degree of risk for opportunistic buying. Given the rate of change of technology and price levels, opportunity costs for purchasing in large quantities can be offset by the obsolescence risk of holding merchandise that may have to be deeply discounted to consumers. Fluctuations in our comparable store sales may cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. "Comparable store sales" is a term we use to compare the year over year sales performance of our stores. We consider a store to be comparable after it has been open six full fiscal quarters. A number of factors have historically affected and will continue to affect our comparable store sales, including the following: competition; national and regional economic conditions; consumer trends; new product introductions; weather conditions which can impact store traffic as well as sales of seasonal products such as air conditioners; changes in our product mix and availability of products from key vendors; duration of the holiday selling season; timing of promotional events; and attracting and retaining qualified sales personnel. Comparable store sales are often followed closely by the investment community and significant fluctuations in these results could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. Our quarterly operating results are subject to seasonality. Our profitability would be adversely affected by lower than expected fourth quarter results. Our retail business is seasonal. Our net retail sales and net income historically have been highest in our fourth fiscal quarter, which includes the Christmas selling season. The fourth quarter accounted for approximately 30% and 33% of our net sales and revenue, and 31% and 23% of our net income in fiscal 2006 and 2005, respectively. Our annual financial results would be adversely impacted if our sales were to fall substantially below what we normally expect during this period. 16 We depend on our suppliers for products and our business could be adversely affected if we do not maintain relationships with our key vendors. Our success depends to a significant degree upon our suppliers of consumer electronics and home appliance products. We do not have any long-term supply agreements or exclusive arrangements with vendors. We typically order merchandise by issuing individual purchase orders to vendors. We rely significantly on a few suppliers. Our nine largest suppliers accounted for approximately 86% of our purchases during fiscal 2006, with three suppliers representing approximately 45% of our inventory purchases in fiscal 2006. The loss of any of these key vendors, our failure to establish and maintain relationships with our vendors, or any prolonged disruptions in product supply, could have a material adverse impact on our business. We may incur higher costs or decreased sales and gross margins because we purchase imported products. A significant portion of our inventory is manufactured outside the United States. Changes in trade regulations, currency fluctuations or other factors may increase the cost of items manufactured outside the United States or create shortages of those items. We purchase all of our products in U.S. dollars. Significant reductions in the cost of such items in U.S. dollars may cause a significant reduction in retail price levels of those products, which could adversely affect our sales and gross margins. The loss of the services of our Chief Executive Officer or our other key employees could jeopardize our ability to maintain our competitive position. We believe that our success depends on the continued service of our key executive management personnel. Loss of the services of Stuart Rose, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, or other key employees could jeopardize our ability to maintain our competitive position in the industry. Risks Related to our Synthetic Fuel Investments Income and tax credits from our investments in facilities producing synthetic fuel have contributed significantly to our operating and net income in past years but will not continue after December 31, 2007. In fiscal 1998, we invested in two limited partnerships, Colona Synfuel Limited Partnership, L.L.L.P. (Colona) and Somerset Synfuel, L.P. (Somerset), which own facilities producing synthetic fuel. In fiscal 2002, we purchased a plant located in Gillette, Wyoming (Gillette) designed and constructed for the production of synthetic fuel. The entities earn federal income tax credits under Section 29/45K of the Internal Revenue Code based on the quantity and content of synthetic fuel production and sales. We sold our interest in the Colona partnership in three separate sale transactions and expect to receive cash payments from the sales on a quarterly basis through 2007, subject to production levels. We reported income from the sales of approximately $5.3 million and $22.8 million in fiscal 2006 and 2005, respectively, which accounted for approximately 33% and 63% of our income from continuing operations before income taxes in those years. The loss of this income will significantly reduce our net income. We also sold our interest in the limited liability company that owned the Gillette facility and received $2.75 million at the time of the sale in March 2004 along with a secured contingent payment note that could provide additional investment income to us. This plant was dismantled and relocated. The facility resumed commercial operations in the second quarter of 2005 and we received an additional $3.5 million. We are also eligible to receive $1.50 per ton of "qualified production" fuel produced by the facility and sold through 2007. The plant was subsequently sold and during the third quarter of fiscal 2006, we modified our agreement with 17 the owners and operators of the synthetic fuel facility. Based on the terms of the modified agreement, we currently are not able to determine the likelihood and timing of collecting payments related to production occurring after September 30, 2006. Thus, we cannot currently determine the timing of income recognition, if any, related to production occurring subsequent to September 30, 2006. We reported income from the sale of approximately $1.1 million and $6.1 million in fiscal 2006 and 2005, respectively. The loss of this income will significantly reduce our net income. Effective October 1, 2005, we sold our entire ownership interest in the Somerset partnership. We received $1.2 million, net of commissions, at closing along with a secured contingent payment note that could provide additional investment income. We expect to receive quarterly payments through 2007 equal to 80% of the Section 29/45K tax credits attributable to the ownership interest sold, subject to production levels. We reported income from the sale of approximately $4.4 million and $1.6 million in fiscal 2006 and 2005, respectively. The loss of this income will significantly reduce our net income. The current Section 29/45K tax credit program expires on December 31, 2007. If not renewed by Congress, we will not receive income related to Section 29/45K tax credits for the production and sale of synthetic fuel after that date. We face synthetic fuel risks as future IRS audits may result in the disallowance of previously recognized tax credits. We have been allocated in total approximately $48 million in Section 29/45K credits. Should the tax credits be denied on any future audit and we fail to prevail through the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) or the legal process, there could be a significant tax liability owed for previously taken tax credits with a significant adverse impact on earnings and cash flows. The production and sale of synthetic fuel qualifies for Section 29/45K tax credits if certain requirements are satisfied, including a requirement that the synthetic fuel differs significantly in chemical composition from the coal used to produce the synthetic fuel and that the fuel was produced from a facility placed in service before July 1, 1998. We face synthetic fuel risks associated with crude oil prices as such our income could decrease significantly. Recent increases in the price of oil could limit the amount of Section 29/45K tax credits or eliminate them altogether following fiscal 2006. Section 29/45K provides that if the average wellhead price per barrel for unregulated domestic crude oil for the year (the "Annual Average Price") exceeds a certain threshold value (the "Threshold Price"), the Section 29/45K tax credits are subject to phase out. For calendar year 2006, the Threshold Price was $56.71 per barrel and the Phase Out Price was $71.19 per barrel. The Threshold Price and the Phase Out Price are adjusted annually as a result of inflation. We cannot determine, with absolute certainty, the Annual Average Price for 2007. Therefore, we cannot determine whether the price of oil will have a material effect on our synthetic fuel income after fiscal 2006. However, if during fiscal 2007 oil prices remain at historically high levels or increase, our synthetic fuel income may be adversely affected. Based upon the price of oil to date, we estimate the tax credits and related income, for calendar year 2007 would not be subject to phase out as of January 31, 2007. Because synthetic fuel is not economical to produce absent the associated tax credits, and we have no control or decision involvement with production levels, we cannot determine the impact of possible production reduction or elimination on our financial results. We may not be able to generate sufficient taxable income to realize our deferred tax assets. We have approximately $35.4 million of deferred tax assets recorded on our consolidated financial statements. Should future results of operations or other factors cause us to determine that it is unlikely that we will generate 18 sufficient taxable income to fully utilize our deferred tax assets, we would then be required to establish a valuation allowance against such deferred tax assets by increasing our income tax expense in the amount of tax benefit we do not expect to realize. This would reduce our net income and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may realize capital losses related to our sales of synthetic fuel ownership interests. We have, for income tax purposes, recognized capital gain in the year of sale for certain sales of our ownership interests in synthetic fuel entities. Should we, in subsequent years, realize a capital loss as a result of lower synthetic fuel production, for income tax purposes, we may be required to carry the loss back to prior years. This could result in the write down of previously used Section 29/45K tax credits. This would reduce our net income and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Risks Related to our Alternative Energy Business Our ethanol investments are subject to the risks of a development stage business which could adversely affect the returns on our ethanol investments and our results of operations. We do not have an established record for investing in the ethanol industry. We entered into our first agreement to invest in an ethanol plant in November 2005. At January 31, 2007, we have invested in four entities. Three entities have begun construction of ethanol production facilities and one is expanding its current ethanol production facilities. Our ethanol investments have been managed by our Chief Executive Officer, our Vice President and our Chief Financial Officer. We do not otherwise have a dedicated ethanol development staff. As a consequence, our ethanol investments are subject to all of the risks associated with a development stage company, including an unproven business model, a lack of operating history and an undeveloped operating structure. These development stage risks could result in our making investments in ethanol plants that perform substantially below our expectations, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We invest in new construction of ethanol plants and significant expansion of existing plants. As a result, we face significant project development risks that may adversely affect our investment returns. In each of our investments, we are investing in the new construction of a plant or a significant expansion of an existing plant. As a result, our investments face risks of construction delays and cost over-runs that could delay or reduce our investment returns. In addition, the new plants are development-stage operations that must obtain necessary permits and complete arrangements for transportation, natural gas and marketing of the ethanol before production can begin. The failure to obtain any of these necessary elements in a timely manner or on commercially acceptable terms could adversely affect the profitability of each plant. Once the new plants or expansions begin production, they face uncertainties of whether they will perform to specifications and whether they will achieve anticipated operating results. We depend on our partners to operate our ethanol investments. We may not directly operate the ethanol plants in which we invest. Our investments currently represent minority equity positions or debt, and day-to-day operating control of each plant remains with the local farmers’ cooperative or group that has promoted the plant. We may not have the ability to directly modify the operations of each plant in response to changes in the business environment or in response to any deficiencies in local operations of the plants. In addition, local plant operators, who also represent the primary suppliers of corn and other crops to the plants, may have interests, such as the price and sourcing of corn, that may differ from our interest, which is based solely on the operating profit of the plant. The limitations on our ability to control day-to-day plant operations could adversely affect plant results of operations. 19 We may not successfully acquire or develop additional ethanol investments. The growth of our ethanol business depends on our ability to identify and develop new ethanol investments. Our ethanol development strategy depends on referrals, and introductions, to new investment opportunities from industry participants, such as ethanol plant builders, marketing agents and others. We must continue to maintain favorable relationships with these industry participants, and a material disruption in these sources of referrals would adversely affect our ability to expand our ethanol investments. In addition, we face significant competition for new ethanol investment opportunities. There are many enterprises seeking to participate in the ethanol industry. Some enterprises, such as Andersons, Inc., provide financial support similar to our business model. Other enterprises seek to acquire or develop plants which they will directly own and operate. As a consequence, there is increasing competition for suitable sites for new or expanded plants. Many of our competitors for these sites are larger and have greater financial resources and name recognition than we do. We must compete for investment opportunities based on our strategy of supporting and enhancing local development of ethanol plant opportunities. We may not be successful in competing for investment opportunities based on our strategy. We face risks that our funding commitments will not become investments positions in ethanol plants. We have structured our investments in ethanol plants as agreements to purchase secured notes or equity in the limited liability companies that are developing each plant. Our obligation to fund the investment commitment is subject to a number of conditions, including completing an equity financing to a specified level, obtaining senior debt financing and executing a plant construction agreement with a specified builder. We will not begin to realize any returns on ethanol investments until these conditions to funding are satisfied. Any delay or failure in satisfying the funding conditions would adversely affect the development of our ethanol investments. The financial returns on our ethanol investments are highly dependent on commodity prices, which are subject to significant volatility and uncertainty, and the availability of supplies, so our results could fluctuate substantially. The financial returns on our ethanol investments are substantially dependent on commodity prices, especially prices for corn, natural gas, ethanol and unleaded gasoline. As a result of the volatility of the prices for these items, these returns may fluctuate substantially and our investments could experience periods of declining prices for their products and increasing costs for their raw materials, which could result in operating losses at our ethanol plants. Our returns on ethanol investments are highly sensitive to corn prices. The principal raw material our ethanol plants use to produce ethanol and co-products is corn. As a result, changes in the price of corn can significantly affect their businesses. In general, rising corn prices produce lower profit margins. Because ethanol competes with non-corn-based fuels, our ethanol plants generally will be unable to pass along increase corn costs to their customers. At certain levels, corn prices may make ethanol uneconomical to use in fuel markets. Over the ten-year period from 1997 through 2006, corn prices (based on the Chicago Board of Trade, or CBOT, daily futures data) have ranged from a low of $1.75 per bushel in 2000 to a high of $3.90 per bushel in 2006 with prices averaging $2.32 per bushel during this period. At January 31, 2007, the CBOT price per bushel of corn was $4.04. The price of corn is influenced by weather conditions and other factors affecting crop yields, farmer planting decisions and general economic, market and regulatory factors. These factors include government policies and subsidies with respect to agriculture and international trade, and global and local demand and supply. The significance and relative effect of these factors on the price of corn is difficult to predict. Any event that tends to negatively affect the supply of corn, such as adverse weather or crop disease, could increase corn prices and potentially harm the business of our ethanol plants. In addition, our ethanol plants may also have difficulty, from time to time, in physically sourcing corn on economical terms due to supply shortages. Such a shortage could require our ethanol plants to suspend operations until corn is available at economical terms 20 which would have a material adverse effect on the financial returns on our ethanol investments. The price the ethanol plants pay for corn at a facility could increase if an additional ethanol production facility is built in the same vicinity. The spread between ethanol and corn prices can vary significantly and we do not expect the spread to remain at recent high levels. The gross margin at our ethanol plants depends principally on the spread between ethanol and corn prices. During the five-year period from 2002 to 2006, ethanol prices (based on average U.S. ethanol rack prices from Bloomberg, L.P., or Bloomberg) have ranged from a low of $0.94 per gallon to a high of $3.98 per gallon, averaging $1.70 per gallon during this period. In recent periods, the spread between ethanol and corn prices has been at historically high levels, driven in large part by high oil prices and historically low corn prices. However, this spread has fluctuated widely and fluctuations are likely to continue to occur. Any reduction in the spread between ethanol and corn prices, whether as a result of an increase in corn prices or a reduction in ethanol prices, would adversely affect the results of operations at our ethanol plants. The market for natural gas is subject to market conditions that create uncertainty in the price and availability of the natural gas that our ethanol plants use in their manufacturing process. Our ethanol plants rely upon third parties for their supply of natural gas, which is consumed in the manufacture of ethanol. The prices for and availability of natural gas are subject to volatile market conditions. These market conditions often are affected by the factors beyond the ethanol plants’ control such as higher prices resulting from colder than average weather conditions and overall economic conditions. Significant disruptions in the supply of natural gas could impair the ethanol plants’ ability to manufacture ethanol for their customers. Furthermore, increases in natural gas prices or changes in our natural gas costs relative to natural gas costs paid by competitors may adversely affect results of operations and financial position at our ethanol plants. Fluctuations in the selling price and production costs of gasoline may reduce profit margins at our ethanol plants. Ethanol is marketed both as a fuel additive to reduce vehicle emissions from gasoline and as an octane enhancer to improve the octane rating of gasoline with which it is blended. As a result, ethanol prices are influenced by the supply and demand for gasoline and our results of operations and financial position may be materially adversely affected if gasoline demand or price decreases. If the expected increase in ethanol demand does not occur, or if the demand for ethanol otherwise decreases, there may be excess capacity in the ethanol industry. Domestic capacity has increased steadily from 1.7 billion gallons per year in January 1999 to 5.5 billion gallons per year at January 2007. In addition, there is a significant amount of capacity being added to the industry. According to the RFA, as of January 2007 approximately 5.6 billion gallons per year of production capacity was under construction. This capacity is being added to address anticipated increased demand. However, demand for ethanol may not increase as quickly as expected or to a level that exceeds supply, or at all. If the ethanol industry has excess capacity and such excess capacity results in a fall in prices, it will have an adverse impact on the results of operations, cash flows and financial condition of our ethanol plants. Excess capacity may result from the increases in capacity coupled with insufficient demand. Demand could be impaired due to a number of factors including regulatory developments and reduced United States gasoline consumption. Reduced gasoline consumption could occur as a result of increased gasoline or oil prices. For example, price increases could cause businesses and consumers to reduce driving or acquire vehicles with more favorable gasoline mileage. There is some evidence that this has occurred in the recent past as United States gasoline prices have increased. The U.S. ethanol industry is highly dependent upon a myriad of federal and state legislation and regulation and any changes in legislation or regulation could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. The elimination or significant reduction in the blenders’ credit could have a material adverse effect on the results of our ethanol investments. The cost of production of ethanol is made significantly more competitive 21 with regular gasoline by federal tax incentives. Before January 1, 2005, the federal excise tax incentive program allowed gasoline distributors who blended ethanol with gasoline to receive a federal excise tax rate reduction for each blended gallon they sold. If the fuel was blended with 10% ethanol, the refiner/marketer paid $0.054 per gallon less tax, which equated to an incentive of $0.54 per gallon of ethanol. The $0.54 per gallon incentive for ethanol was reduced to $0.51 per gallon in 2005 and is scheduled to expire (unless extended) in 2010. The blenders’ credits may not be renewed in 2010 or may be renewed on different terms. In addition, the blenders’ credits, as well as other federal and state programs benefiting ethanol (such as tariffs), generally are subject to U.S. government obligations under international trade agreements, including those under the World Trade Organization Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures, and might be the subject of challenges thereunder, in whole or in part. The elimination or significant reduction in the blenders’ credit or other programs benefiting ethanol may have a material adverse effect on the results of our ethanol investments. Ethanol can be imported into the U.S. duty-free from some countries which may undermine the ethanol industry in the U.S. Imported ethanol is generally subject to a $0.54 per gallon tariff that was designed to offset the $0.51 per gallon ethanol incentive available under the federal excise tax incentive program for refineries that blend ethanol in their fuel. A special exemption from the tariff exists for the ethanol imported from 24 countries in Central America and the Caribbean Islands, which is limited to a total of 7% of U.S. production per year. Imports from the exempted countries may increase as a result of new plants under development. Since production costs for ethanol in these countries are estimated to be significantly less than what they are in the U.S., the duty-free import of ethanol through the countries exempted from the tariff may negatively affect the demand for domestic ethanol and the price at which our ethanol plants sell their ethanol. In May 2006, bills were introduced in both the U.S. House of Representatives and U.S. Senate to repeal the $0.54 per gallon tariff. We do not know the extent to which the volume of imports would increase or the effect on U.S. prices for ethanol if this proposed legislation is enacted or if the tariff is not renewed beyond its current expiration in December 2008. Any changes in the tariff or exemption from the tariff could have a material adverse effect on the results of our ethanol investments. In addition, the North American Free Trade Agreement, or NAFTA, which entered into force on January 1, 1994, allows Canada and Mexico to export ethanol to the United States duty-free or at a reduced rate. Canada is exempt from duty under the current NAFTA guidelines, while Mexico’s duty rate is $0.10 per gallon. The effect of the RFS in the Energy Policy Act is uncertain. The use of fuel oxygenates, including ethanol, was mandated through regulation, and much of the forecasted growth in demand for ethanol was expected to result from additional mandated use of oxygenates. Most of this growth was projected to occur in the next few years as the remaining markets switch from MTBE to ethanol. The Energy Policy Act, however, eliminated the mandated use of oxygenates and established minimum annual nationwide levels of renewable fuels to be included in gasoline. The annual requirement grows to 7.5 billion gallons by 2012. Because biodiesel and other renewable fuels in addition to ethanol are counted toward the minimum usage requirements of the renewable fuel standard or RFS, the elimination of the oxygenate requirement for reformulated gasoline may result in a decline in ethanol consumption, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the results of our ethanol investments. The legislation also included provisions for trading of credits for use of renewable fuels and authorized potential reductions in the RFS minimum by action of a governmental administrator. As the rules for implementation of the RFS and the energy bill are under development, the impact of legislation is still uncertain. Waivers of the RFS minimum levels of renewable fuels included in gasoline could have a material adverse affect on the results of our ethanol investments. Under the Energy Policy Act, the U.S. Department of Energy, in consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of Energy, may waive the renewable fuels mandate with respect to one or more states if the Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or U.S. EPA, determines that implementing the requirements would severely harm the economy or the environment of a state, a region or the U.S., or that there is inadequate supply to meet the requirement. Any waiver of the RFS with respect to one or more states would adversely offset demand for ethanol and could have a material adverse effect on the results of our ethanol investments. 22 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 