Item 1A. Risk Factors We encourage you to carefully consider the risks described below and other information contained in this report when considering an investment decision in REX common stock. Any of the events discussed in the risk factors below may occur. If one or more of these events do occur, our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In this instance, the trading price of REX stock could decline, and investors might lose all or part of their investment. We have concentrations of cash deposits at financial institutions that exceed federal insurance limits. We generally have cash deposits that exceed federal insurance limits. Should the financial institutions we deposit our cash at experience insolvency or other financial difficulty, our access to cash deposits could be limited. In extreme cases, we could lose our cash deposits entirely. This would negatively impact our liquidity and results of operations. 13 Risks Related to our Retail Business We face significant competition from other retailers many of whom have greater financial resources. This could result in a decline of our sales and profitability. We face significant competition from a diverse group of retailers. Our competitors include national and regional large format merchandisers and superstores such as Best Buy Co., Inc., Lowe’s Corporation, Home Depot, Inc. and Circuit City Stores, Inc., other specialty electronics retailers including RadioShack Corporation, department and discount stores such as Sears, Roebuck and Co. and Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., furniture stores, warehouse clubs, home improvement retailers and Internet and store-based retailers who sell consumer electronics and home appliance products online. We also compete with small chains and specialty single-store operators in some markets, as well as Sears’ dealer-operated units. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources than us, which may increase their ability to purchase inventory at a lower cost, better withstand economic downturns or engage in aggressive price competition. We expect competition within the consumer electronics/appliance retailing industry to increase. National merchandisers continue to expand their geographic markets and enter markets traditionally served by us. In the event that competitors enter markets we serve, we may experience pricing pressures, reduced gross margins and declines in comparable store sales. A decline in economic conditions could lead to reduced consumer demand for the products we sell. Demand for consumer electronics and home appliance products is dependent upon various economic factors outside of our control. These factors include: • general economic conditions; • consumer confidence; • consumer spending patterns and preferences; and • new housing starts. A slowdown in the national or regional economies or an uncertain economic outlook could adversely affect discretionary consumer spending habits and negatively impact our sales and operating results. If new products are not introduced or consumers do not accept new products, our sales may decline. We rely upon the periodic introduction of new products to help stimulate consumer demand. The lack of new products could reduce consumer interest and lower our sales. In addition, many products which incorporate the newest technologies, such as high definition television, are subject to technological and pricing limitations and may not achieve widespread or rapid consumer acceptance in the markets we serve. If these new products do not meet with widespread or rapid market acceptance, our results of operations may be impaired. Furthermore, the introduction or expected introduction of new products may depress sales of existing products and technologies. Government mandates for such areas as high definition television tuners can increase production costs and lead to higher retail prices that could reduce product acceptance. Other mandates include the Department of Energy compliance mandates for major appliances that went into effect in 2007. This could also lead to higher retail prices and a slowdown in overall product demand. If we do not adequately anticipate and respond to changing consumer demand and preferences, our results of operations may be impaired. 14 Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to changing consumer demand and preferences regarding consumer electronics and home appliances. Our failure to adequately anticipate and respond to these changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition either from lost sales or lower margins due to the need to mark down excess inventory. Our opportunistic product buying strategy could negatively impact our sales and gross margins. When available, we may purchase large quantities of merchandise on an opportunistic or when-available basis at favorable prices. Our inability to find suitable opportunistic product buying opportunities could negatively impact our sales and gross margins. As manufacturers move to more market-driven, supply chain management strategies, the opportunities for opportunistic purchases may decline. Products purchased on an opportunistic basis generally are held in inventory longer than our other products. This can result in increased inventory levels and lower inventory turnover, which increase our working capital requirements and inventory carrying costs. Increased inventory levels and lower turnover rates also increase the risk of inventory mark-downs. The introduction of digitally-based display products such as plasma, LCD and other micro display products has shortened product life cycles and introduced a higher degree of risk for opportunistic buying. Given the rate of change of technology and price levels, opportunity costs for purchasing in large quantities can be offset by the obsolescence risk of holding merchandise that may have to be deeply discounted to consumers. Fluctuations in our comparable store sales may cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. “Comparable store sales” is a term we use to compare the year over year sales performance of our stores. We consider a store to be comparable after it has been open six full fiscal quarters. A number of factors have historically affected and will continue to affect our comparable store sales, including the following: • competition; • national and regional economic conditions; • consumer trends; • new product introductions; • weather conditions which can impact store traffic as well as sales of seasonal products such as air conditioners; • changes in our product mix and availability of products from key vendors; • duration of the holiday selling season; • timing of promotional events; and • attracting and retaining qualified sales personnel. Comparable store sales are often followed closely by the investment community and significant fluctuations in these results could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. Our quarterly operating results are subject to seasonality. Our profitability would be adversely affected by lower than expected fourth quarter results. Our retail business is seasonal. Our net retail sales and net income historically have been highest in our fourth fiscal quarter, which includes the Christmas selling season. The fourth quarter accounted for approximately 32% and 30% of our net sales and revenue, and 30% and 29% of our gross profit in fiscal year 2007 and 15 2006, respectively. Our annual financial results would be adversely impacted if our sales were to fall substantially below what we normally expect during this period. We depend on our suppliers for products and our business could be adversely affected if we do not maintain relationships with our key vendors. Our success depends to a significant degree upon our suppliers of consumer electronics and home appliance products. We do not have any long-term supply agreements or exclusive arrangements with vendors. We typically order merchandise by issuing individual purchase orders to vendors. We rely significantly on a few suppliers. Our 10 largest suppliers accounted for approximately 86% of our purchases during fiscal year 2007, with four suppliers representing approximately 50% of our inventory purchases in fiscal year 2007. The loss of any of these key vendors, our failure to establish and maintain relationships with our vendors, or any prolonged disruptions in product supply, could have a material adverse impact on our business. We may incur higher costs or decreased sales and gross margins because we purchase imported products. A significant portion of our inventory is manufactured outside the United States. Changes in trade regulations, currency fluctuations or other factors may increase the cost of items manufactured outside the United States or create shortages of those items. We purchase all of our products in U.S. dollars. Significant reductions in the cost of such items in U.S. dollars may cause a significant reduction in retail price levels of those products, which could adversely affect our sales and gross margins. The loss of the services of our Chief Executive Officer or our other key employees could jeopardize our ability to maintain our competitive position. We believe that our success depends on the continued service of our key executive management personnel. Loss of the services of Stuart Rose, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, or other key employees could jeopardize our ability to maintain our competitive position in the industry. Risks Related to our Synthetic Fuel Investments Income and tax credits from our investments in facilities producing synthetic fuel have contributed significantly to our operating and net income in past years but will not continue after December 31, 2007. In fiscal year 1998, we invested in two limited partnerships, Colona Synfuel Limited Partnership, L.L.L.P. (Colona) and Somerset Synfuel, L.P. (Somerset), which own facilities producing synthetic fuel. In fiscal year 2002, we purchased a plant located in Gillette, Wyoming (Gillette) designed and constructed for the production of synthetic fuel. The entities earned federal income tax credits under Section 29/45K of the Internal Revenue Code based on the quantity and content of synthetic fuel production and sales. We sold our interest in the Colona partnership in three separate sale transactions and received cash payments from the sales on a quarterly basis through 2007, subject to production levels. We reported income from the sales of approximately $4.2 million and $5.3 million in fiscal years 2007 and 2006, respectively, which accounted for approximately 11% and 35% of our income from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest in those years. The loss of this income will significantly reduce our net income. We also sold our interest in the limited liability company that owned the Gillette facility and received $2.75 million at the time of the sale in March 2004. This plant was dismantled and relocated. The facility resumed commercial operations in the second quarter of 2005 and we received an additional $3.5 million. We were 16 also eligible to receive $1.50 per ton of “qualified production” fuel produced by the facility and sold through 2007. The plant was subsequently sold and during the third quarter of fiscal year 2006, we modified our agreement with the owners and operators of the synthetic fuel facility. Based on the terms of the modified agreement, we currently are not able to determine the likelihood and timing of collecting payments related to production occurring after September 30, 2006. Thus, we cannot currently determine the timing of income recognition, if any, related to production occurring subsequent to September 30, 2006. Effective October 1, 2005, we sold our entire ownership interest in the Somerset partnership. We received $1.2 million, net of commissions, at closing along with a secured contingent payment note that could provide additional investment income. We received quarterly payments through 2007 equal to 80% of the Section 29/45K tax credits attributable to the ownership interest sold, subject to production levels. We reported income from the sale of approximately $2.8 million and $4.4 million in fiscal years 2007 and 2006, respectively. The loss of this income will significantly reduce our net income. The Section 29/45K tax credit program expired on December 31, 2007. We will not receive income related to Section 29/45K tax credits for the production and sale of synthetic fuel after that date. We face synthetic fuel risks as future IRS audits may result in the disallowance of previously recognized tax credits. We have been allocated approximately $25.0 million of Section 29/45K tax credits and recognized investment income of approximately $97.6 million from the sales of its partnership interests from years that the partnerships have not been audited by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). Should the tax credits be denied on any future audit and we fail to prevail through the IRS or the legal process, there could be a significant tax liability owed for previously taken tax credits or previously recognized income with a significant adverse impact on earnings and cash flows. The production and sale of synthetic fuel qualifies for Section 29/45K tax credits if certain requirements are satisfied, including a requirement that the synthetic fuel differs significantly in chemical composition from the coal used to produce the synthetic fuel and that the fuel was produced from a facility placed in service before July 1, 1998. We may not be able to generate sufficient taxable income to realize our deferred tax assets. We have approximately $32.5 million of deferred tax assets recorded on our consolidated financial statements. Should future results of operations or other factors cause us to determine that it is unlikely that we will generate sufficient taxable income to fully utilize our deferred tax assets, we would then be required to establish a valuation allowance against such deferred tax assets. We would increase our income tax expense by the amount of the tax benefit we do not expect to realize. This would reduce our net income and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may realize capital losses related to our sales of synthetic fuel ownership interests. We have, for income tax purposes, recognized capital gain in the year of sale for certain sales of our ownership interests in synthetic fuel entities. Should we, in subsequent years, realize a capital loss for income tax purposes, we may be required to carry the loss back to prior years. This could result in the write down of previously used Section 29/45K tax credits. This would reduce our net income and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Risks Related to our Alternative Energy Business 17 Our ethanol investments are subject to the risks of a development stage business which could adversely affect the returns on our ethanol investments and our results of operations. We do not have an established record for investing in the ethanol industry. We entered into our first agreement to invest in an ethanol plant in November 2005. At January 31, 2008, we remain invested in four entities. Three entities have begun construction of ethanol production facilities and one recently completed an expansion of its ethanol production facility. Our ethanol investments have been managed by our Chief Executive Officer, our Vice President and our Chief Financial Officer. We do not otherwise have a dedicated ethanol development staff. As a consequence, our ethanol investments are subject to all of the risks associated with a development stage company, including an unproven business model, a lack of operating history and an undeveloped operating structure. These development stage risks could result in our making investments in ethanol plants that perform substantially below our expectations, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We invest in new construction of ethanol plants and significant expansion of existing plants. As a result, we face significant project development risks that may adversely affect our investment returns. In each of our investments, we are investing in the new construction of a plant or a significant expansion of an existing plant. As a result, our investments face risks of construction delays and cost overruns that could delay or reduce our investment returns. Significant delays in the construction schedule, or material variations between estimated versus actual construction cost, could prevent commencement of plant operations as expected and adversely impact the ability of the plant to operate profitably. In addition, the new plants are development-stage operations that must obtain environmental and other permits, complete arrangements for transportation, water, natural gas and marketing of the ethanol, and hire and train employees before production can begin. In some cases, development of infrastructure outside of our control will be required, including additional rail capacity, adequate water supply, additional ethanol storage facilities and increases in truck fleets to transport ethanol within local markets. The failure to obtain any of these necessary elements in a timely manner or on commercially acceptable terms could adversely affect the profitability of each plant. Once the new plants or expansions begin production, they face uncertainties of whether they will perform to specifications and whether they will achieve anticipated operating results. If cash flow from operations of our ethanol plants is not sufficient to service its debt, the plant could fail and we could lose our entire investment. We expect our ethanol plants to finance approximately 60% of plant construction cost with debt. The ability of each company owning the plant to repay borrowings incurred will depend upon the plant’s financial and operating performance. The cash flows and capital resources of an ethanol plant may be insufficient to repay its debt obligations. If a plant cannot service its debt, it may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, restructure its indebtedness or seek additional capital. If unable to do so, the value of our investment could decline significantly. The institutional senior lenders to the companies which own and operate our ethanol plants hold liens on the plant’s assets. If a company fails to make its debt service payments, the senior lender will have the right to repossess the plant’s assets in addition to other remedies, which are superior to our rights as an equity investor or subordinated lender. Such action could have a materially adverse impact on our investment in the ethanol plant. We depend on our partners to operate our ethanol investments. Our investments currently represent both majority and minority equity positions or debt, and day-to-day operating control of each plant generally remains with the local farmers’ cooperative or investor group that has promoted the plant. We may not have the ability to directly modify the operations of the plants in response to changes in the business environment or in response to any deficiencies in local operations of the 18 plants. In addition, local plant operators, who also represent the primary suppliers of corn and other crops to the plants, may have interests, such as the price and sourcing of corn and other crops, that may differ from our interest, which is based solely on the operating profit of the plant. The limitations on our ability to control day-to-day plant operations could adversely affect plant results of operations. We may not successfully acquire or develop additional ethanol investments. The growth of our ethanol business depends on our ability to identify and develop new ethanol investments. Our ethanol development strategy depends on referrals, and introductions, to new investment opportunities from industry participants, such as ethanol plant builders, financial institutions, marketing agents and others. We must continue to maintain favorable relationships with these industry participants, and a material disruption in these sources of referrals would adversely affect our ability to expand our ethanol investments. Any expansion strategy will depend on prevailing market conditions for the price of ethanol and the costs of corn and natural gas and the expectations of future market conditions. The significant expansion of ethanol production capacity currently underway in the United States could impede any expansion strategy. There is increasing competition for suitable sites for ethanol plants. Even if suitable sites or opportunities are identified, we may not be able to secure the services and products from contractors, engineering firms, construction firms and equipment suppliers necessary to build or expand ethanol plants on a timely basis or on acceptable economic terms. Construction costs associated with expansion may increase to levels that would make a new plant too expensive to complete or unprofitable to operate. Additional financing may also be necessary to implement any expansion strategy, which may not be accessible or available on acceptable terms. We face significant competition in the ethanol industry. We face significant competition for new ethanol investment opportunities. There are many enterprises seeking to participate in the ethanol industry. Some enterprises provide financial support similar to our business model. Other enterprises seek to acquire or develop plants which they will directly own and operate. Many of our competitors are larger and have greater financial resources and name recognition than we do. We must compete for investment opportunities based on our strategy of supporting and enhancing local development of ethanol plant opportunities. We may not be successful in competing for investment opportunities based on our strategy. There is a consolidation trend in the ethanol industry. As a result, firms are growing in size and scope. Larger firms offer efficiencies and economics of scale, resulting in lower costs of production. Absent significant growth and diversification, our ethanol plants may not be able to operate profitably in a more competitive environment. No assurance can be given that our ethanol plants will be able to compete successfully or that competition from larger companies with greater financial resources will not have a materially adverse affect on the results of our ethanol investments. The financial returns on our ethanol investments are highly dependent on commodity prices, which are subject to significant volatility and uncertainty, and the availability of supplies, so our results could fluctuate substantially. The financial returns on our ethanol investments are substantially dependent on commodity prices, especially prices for corn or other feedstock, natural gas, ethanol and unleaded gasoline. As a result of the volatility of the prices for these items, the returns may fluctuate substantially and our investments could experience periods of declining prices for their products and increasing costs for their raw materials, which could result in operating losses at our ethanol plants. Our returns on ethanol investments are highly sensitive to grain prices. Corn or sorghum is the principal raw material our ethanol plants use or plan to use to produce ethanol and co-products. As a result, changes in 19 the price of corn or sorghum can significantly affect their businesses. Rising corn or sorghum prices result in higher cost of ethanol and co-products. Because ethanol competes with non-corn-based fuels, our ethanol plants generally will be unable to pass along increased grain costs to their customers. At certain levels, grain prices may make ethanol uneconomical to use in fuel markets. Over the ten-year period from 1998 through 2007, corn prices (based on the Chicago Board of Trade, or CBOT, daily futures data) have ranged from a low of $1.75 per bushel in 2000 to a high of $4.55 per bushel in 2007, with prices averaging $2.42 per bushel during this period. The ethanol industry has experienced significantly higher corn prices beginning in the fourth quarter of 2006, which have remained high in 2007 at substantially higher levels than in 2006. During 2007, CBOT corn prices ranged from a low of $3.10 per bushel to a high of $4.55 per bushel, with prices averaging $3.73 per bushel. At January 31, 2008, the CBOT price per bushel of corn for March delivery was $5.01. If these high corn prices continue, they may have a material adverse effect on our ethanol plants’ business, results of operations and financial position. The price of corn is influenced by weather conditions and other factors affecting crop yields, transportation costs, farmer planting decisions, exports, the value of the U.S. dollar and general economic, market and regulatory factors. These factors include government policies and subsidies with respect to agriculture and international trade, and global and local demand and supply. The significance and relative effect of these factors on the price of corn is difficult to predict. Any event that tends to negatively affect the supply of corn, such as adverse weather or crop disease, could increase corn prices and potentially harm the business of our ethanol plants. Increasing domestic ethanol capacity could boost the demand for corn and result in increased corn prices. In 2006, corn bought by ethanol plants represented approximately 18% of the total corn supply for that year according to results reported by the National Corn Growers Association, and this percentage is expected to increase as additional ethanol capacity comes online, rising to more than 30% of the total corn supply by 2009/2010 according to the United States Department of Agriculture. In addition, the price our ethanol plants pay for corn at a facility could increase if an additional ethanol production facility is built in the same general vicinity. Our ethanol plants may also have difficulty, from time to time, in physically sourcing corn on economical terms due to supply shortages. Such a shortage could require our ethanol plants to suspend operations until corn is available at economical terms which would have a material adverse effect on the financial returns on our ethanol investments. The spread between ethanol and corn prices can vary significantly and may not return to recent high levels. The gross margin at our ethanol plants depends principally on the spread between ethanol and corn prices. During the five-year period from 2003 to 2007, ethanol prices (based on average U.S. ethanol rack prices from Bloomberg, L.P., or Bloomberg) have ranged from a low of $1.11 per gallon to a high of $3.98 per gallon, averaging $1.90 per gallon during this period. For 2007, ethanol prices averaged $2.12 per gallon, reaching a high of $2.50 per gallon and a low of $1.69 per gallon (based on the daily closing prices from Bloomberg). In early 2006, the spread between ethanol and corn prices was at historically high levels, driven in large part by oil companies removing a competitive product, MTBE, from the fuel stream and replacing it with ethanol in a relatively short time period. However, this spread has fluctuated widely and narrowed significantly during 2007. Fluctuations are likely to continue to occur. A sustained narrow spread or any further reduction in the spread between ethanol and corn prices, whether as a result of sustained high or increased corn prices or sustained low or decreased ethanol prices, would adversely affect the results of operations at our ethanol plants. The market for natural gas is subject to market conditions that create uncertainty in the price and availability of the natural gas that our ethanol plants use in their manufacturing process. Our ethanol plants rely upon third parties for their supply of natural gas, which is consumed as fuel in the manufacture of ethanol. The prices for and availability of natural gas are subject to volatile market conditions. These market conditions often are affected by factors beyond the ethanol plants’ control, such as weather conditions, overall 20 economic conditions and foreign and domestic governmental regulation and relations. Significant disruptions in the supply of natural gas could impair the ethanol plants’ ability to manufacture ethanol for their customers. Furthermore, increases in natural gas prices or changes in our natural gas costs relative to natural gas costs paid by competitors may adversely affect results of operations and financial position at our ethanol plants. Fluctuations in the selling price and production costs of gasoline may reduce profit margins at our ethanol plants. Ethanol is marketed both as a fuel additive to reduce vehicle emissions from gasoline and as an octane enhancer to improve the octane rating of gasoline with which it is blended. As a result, ethanol prices are influenced by the supply and demand for gasoline and our ethanol plants’ results of operations and financial position may be materially adversely affected if gasoline demand or price decreases. New plants under construction or decreases in demand for ethanol may result in excess production capacity in the ethanol industry, which may cause the price of ethanol and/or distillers grains to decrease. According to the Renewable Fuels Association, or RFA, domestic ethanol production capacity has increased from 1.9 billion gallons per year in January 2001 to approximately 7.9 billion gallons per year at January 2008. The RFA estimates that, as of January 2008, approximately 5.5 billion gallons per year of additional production capacity is under construction. The ethanol industry in the U.S. now consists of more than 130 production facilities. Excess capacity in the ethanol industry would have an adverse effect on the results of our ethanol investments. In a manufacturing industry with excess capacity, producers have an incentive to manufacture additional products for so long as the price exceeds the marginal cost of production (i.e., the cost of producing only the next unit, without regard for interest, overhead or fixed costs). This incentive could result in the reduction of the market price of ethanol to a level that is inadequate to generate sufficient cash flow to cover costs. Excess capacity may also result from decreases in the demand for ethanol, which could result from a number of factors, including, but not limited to, regulatory developments and reduced U.S. gasoline consumption. Reduced gasoline consumption could occur as a result of increased prices for gasoline or crude oil, which could cause businesses and consumers to reduce driving or acquire vehicles with more favorable gasoline mileage or acquire hybrid vehicles. There is some evidence that this has occurred in the recent past as U.S. gasoline prices have increased. In addition, because ethanol production produces distillers grains as a co-product, increased ethanol production will also lead to increased supplies of distillers grains. An increase in the supply of distillers grains, without corresponding increases in demand, could lead to lower prices or an inability to sell our ethanol plants’ distillers grains production. A decline in the price of distillers grains or the distillers grains market generally could have a material adverse effect on the results of our ethanol investments. Our ethanol plants may be adversely affected by technological advances and efforts to anticipate and employ such technological advances may prove unsuccessful. The development and implementation of new technologies may result in a significant reduction in the costs of ethanol production. For instance, any technological advances in the efficiency or cost to produce ethanol from inexpensive, cellulosic sources such as wheat, oat or barley straw could have an adverse effect on our ethanol plants, because those facilities are designed to produce ethanol from corn, which is, by comparison, a raw material with other high value uses. We cannot predict when new technologies may become available, the rate of acceptance of new technologies by competitors or the costs associated with new technologies. In addition, advances in the development of alternatives to ethanol could significantly reduce demand for or eliminate the need for ethanol. Any advances in technology which require significant unanticipated capital expenditures to remain competitive or which reduce demand or prices for ethanol would have a material adverse effect on the results of our ethanol investments. 21 In addition, alternative fuels, additives and oxygenates are continually under development. Alternative fuel additives that can replace ethanol may be developed, which may decrease the demand for ethanol. It is also possible that technological advances in engine and exhaust system design and performance could reduce the use of oxygenates, which would lower the demand for ethanol, and the results of our ethanol investments may be materially adversely affected. The U.S. ethanol industry is highly dependent upon a myriad of federal and state legislation and regulation and any changes in legislation or regulation could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. The elimination or significant reduction in the blenders’ credit could have a material adverse effect on the results of our ethanol investments. The cost of production of ethanol is made significantly more competitive with regular gasoline by federal tax incentives. The federal excise tax incentive program currently allows gasoline distributors who blend ethanol with gasoline to receive a federal excise tax rate reduction for each blended gallon they sell. If the fuel is blended with 10% ethanol, the refiner/marketer pays $0.051 per gallon less tax, which equates to an incentive of $0.51 per gallon of ethanol. The $0.51 per gallon incentive for ethanol is scheduled to be reduced to $0.46 per gallon in 2009 and to expire in 2010. The blenders’ credits could be eliminated or reduced at any time through an act of Congress and may not be renewed in 2010 or may be renewed on different terms. In addition, the blenders’ credits, as well as other federal and state programs benefiting ethanol (such as tariffs), generally are subject to U.S. government obligations under international trade agreements, including those under the World Trade Organization Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures, and might be the subject of challenges thereunder, in whole or in part. Ethanol can be imported into the U.S. duty-free from some countries, which may undermine the ethanol industry in the U.S. Imported ethanol is generally subject to a $0.54 per gallon tariff that was designed to offset the $0.51 per gallon ethanol incentive that is available under the federal excise tax incentive program for refineries that blend ethanol in their fuel. A special exemption from the tariff exists for ethanol imported from 24 countries in Central America and the Caribbean Islands, which is limited to a total of 7% of U.S. production per year. Imports from the exempted countries may increase as a result of new plants under development. Since production costs for ethanol in these countries are estimated to be significantly less than what they are in the U.S., the duty-free import of ethanol through the countries exempted from the tariff may negatively affect the demand for domestic ethanol and the price at which our ethanol plants sell ethanol. Although the $0.54 per gallon tariff has been extended through December 31, 2008, bills were previously introduced in both the U.S. House of Representatives and U.S. Senate to repeal the tariff. We do not know the extent to which the volume of imports would increase or the effect on U.S. prices for ethanol if the tariff is not renewed beyond its current expiration. Any changes in the tariff or exemption from the tariff could have a material adverse effect on the results of our ethanol investments. In addition, the North America Free Trade Agreement, or NAFTA, which entered into force on January 1, 1994, allows Canada and Mexico to export ethanol to the United States duty-free or at a reduced rate. Canada is exempt from duty under the current NAFTA guidelines, while Mexico’s duty rate is $0.10 per gallon. The effect of the renewable fuel standard (“RFS”) program in the Energy Independence and Security Act signed into law on December 19, 2007 (the “2007 Act”) is uncertain. The mandated minimum level of use of renewable fuels in the RFS under the 2007 Act increased to 9 billion gallons per year in 2008 (from 5.4 billion gallons under the RFS enacted in 2005), further increasing to 36 billion gallons per year in 2022. The 2007 Act also requires the increased use of “advanced” biofuels, which are alternative biofuels produced without using corn starch such as cellulosic ethanol and biomass-based diesel, with 21 billion gallons of the mandated 36 billion gallons of renewable fuel required to come from advanced biofuels by 2022. Required RFS volumes for both general and advanced renewable fuels in years to follow 2022 will be determined by a governmental administrator, in coordination with the U.S. Department of Energy and U.S. Department of Agriculture. Increased competition from other types of biofuels could have a material adverse effect on the results of our ethanol investments. 22 The RFS program and the 2007 Act also include provisions allowing “credits” to be granted to fuel producers who blend in their fuel more than the required percentage of renewable fuels in a given year. These credits may be used in subsequent years to satisfy RFS production percentage and volume standards and may be traded to other parties. The accumulation of excess credits could further reduce the impact of the RFS mandate schedule and result in a lower ethanol price or could result in greater fluctuations in demand for ethanol from year to year, both of which could have a material adverse effect on the results of our ethanol investments. Waivers of the RFS minimum levels of renewable fuels included in gasoline could have a material adverse effect on the results of our ethanol investments. Under the RFS as passed as part of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, in consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of Energy, may waive the renewable fuels mandate with respect to one or more states if the Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, determines upon the petition of one or more states that implementing the requirements would severely harm the economy or the environment of a state, a region or the U.S., or that there is inadequate supply to meet the requirement. In addition, the 2007 Act allows any other person subject to the requirements of the RFS or the EPA Administrator to file a petition for such a waiver. Any waiver of the RFS with respect to one or more states could adversely offset demand for ethanol and could have a material adverse effect on the results of our ethanol investments. Various studies have criticized the efficiency of ethanol, in general, and corn-based ethanol in particular, which could lead to the reduction or repeal of incentives and tariffs that promote the use and domestic production of ethanol or otherwise negatively impact public perception and acceptance of ethanol as an alternative fuel. Although many trade groups, academics and governmental agencies have supported ethanol as a fuel additive that promotes a cleaner environment, others have criticized ethanol production as consuming considerably more energy and emitting more greenhouse gases than other biofuels and as potentially depleting water resources. Other studies have suggested that corn-based ethanol is less efficient than ethanol produced from switchgrass or wheat grain and that it negatively impacts consumers by causing prices for dairy, meat and other foodstuffs from livestock that consume corn to increase. If these views gain acceptance, support for existing measures promoting use and domestic production of corn-based ethanol could decline, leading to reduction or repeal of these measures. These views could also negatively impact public perception of the ethanol industry and acceptance of ethanol as an alternative fuel. Changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the results of our ethanol investments. Levelland Hockley, One Earth and Patriot all have forward interest rate swaps at January 31, 2008. During fiscal year 2007, we recognized an unrealized loss on these swaps of approximately $3.5 million. Further reductions in interest rates could reduce the fair market value of the interest rate swaps, requiring us to record additional expense. Such expense could be material. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 