Item 1A. Risk Factors We encourage you to carefully consider the risks described below and other information contained in this report when considering an investment decision in REX common stock. Any of the events discussed in the risk factors below may occur. If one or more of these events do occur, our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In this instance, the trading price of REX stock could decline, and investors might lose all or part of their investment. We have concentrations of cash deposits at financial institutions that exceed federal insurance limits. We generally have cash deposits that exceed federal insurance limits. Should the financial institutions we deposit our cash at experience insolvency or other financial difficulty, our access to cash deposits could be limited. In extreme cases, we could lose our cash deposits entirely. This would negatively impact our liquidity and results of operations. 9 The current interest rate environment has resulted in lower yields on our excess cash. We have experienced lower yields on our excess cash compared to historical yields. Should the present economic conditions result in a sustained period of historically low interest rates, our interest income would be negatively impacted. Risks Related to our Synthetic Fuel Investments and Income Tax Benefits We face synthetic fuel risks as future IRS audits may result in the disallowance of previously recognized tax credits. We have recognized investment income of approximately $53.9 million from the sales of our partnership interests from years that the partnerships have not been audited by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). Should the tax credits be denied on any future audit and we fail to prevail through the IRS or the legal process, there could be significant refunds of previously recognized income with a significant adverse impact on earnings and cash flows. The production and sale of synthetic fuel qualified for Section 29/45K tax credits if certain requirements were satisfied, including a requirement that the synthetic fuel differs significantly in chemical composition from the coal used to produce the synthetic fuel and that the fuel was produced from a facility placed in service before July 1, 1998. We may not be able to generate sufficient taxable income to realize our deferred tax assets. We have approximately $11.0 million of net deferred tax assets recorded on our consolidated financial statements. Should future results of operations or other factors cause us to determine that it is unlikely that we will generate sufficient taxable income to fully utilize our deferred tax assets; we would then be required to establish a valuation allowance against such deferred tax assets. We would increase our income tax expense by the amount of the tax benefit we do not expect to realize. This would reduce our net income and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial position. Risks Related to our Alternative Energy Business Certain of our ethanol investments are subject to the risks of a development stage business which could adversely affect returns on our ethanol investment and our results of operations. We do not have long term experience investing in the ethanol industry. We entered into our first agreement to invest in an ethanol plant in November 2005. At January 31, 2011, we were invested in five entities that own and operate seven ethanol production facilities. One facility has been in production since 2004, but the remaining facilities all became operational or were acquired in fiscal year 2008 or later. Our ethanol investments have been managed by our Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Operating Officer and our Chief Financial Officer. We do not otherwise have a dedicated ethanol development or management staff. As a consequence, our ethanol investments are subject to many of the risks associated with a development stage company, including an unproven business model, a lack of operating history and an undeveloped operating structure. These development stage risks could result in our making investments in ethanol plants that perform substantially below our expectations, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 10 If cash flow from operations of our ethanol plants is not sufficient to service debt, the plants could fail and we could lose our entire investment. Our ethanol plants financed approximately 60% of plant construction cost with debt. The debt typically has a balloon payment due after five years. The ability of each company owning the plant to repay borrowings incurred will depend upon the plant’s financial and operating performance. The cash flows and capital resources of an ethanol plant may be insufficient to repay its debt obligations. If a plant cannot service its debt, it may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, restructure its indebtedness or seek additional capital. If unable to do so, the value of our investment could decline significantly. The institutional senior lenders to the companies which own and operate our ethanol plants hold liens on the plant’s assets. If a company fails to make its debt service payments, the senior lender will have the right to repossess the plant’s assets in addition to other remedies, which are superior to our rights as an equity investor or subordinated lender. Such action could have a material adverse impact on our investment in the ethanol plant. We operate in a capital intensive industry. Limitations to external financing could adversely affect our financial performance. In general, continued volatility in the capital markets has resulted in reduced availability of capital for the ethanol industry. We may need to incur additional financing to fund growth of our business or in times of increasing liquidity requirements (such as increases in raw material costs). Any delays to obtain additional financing, or our inability to do so, could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. The financial returns on our ethanol investments are highly dependent on commodity prices, which are subject to significant volatility and uncertainty, and the availability of supplies, so our results could fluctuate substantially. The financial returns on our ethanol investments are substantially dependent on commodity prices, especially prices for corn or other feedstock, natural gas, ethanol and unleaded gasoline. As a result of the volatility of the prices for these items, the returns may fluctuate substantially and our investments could experience periods of declining prices for their products and increasing costs for their raw materials, which could result in operating losses at our ethanol plants. Our returns on ethanol investments are highly sensitive to grain prices. Corn or sorghum are the principal raw materials our ethanol plants use to produce ethanol and co-products. As a result, changes in the price of corn or sorghum can significantly affect their businesses. Rising corn or sorghum prices result in higher costs of ethanol and co-products. Because ethanol competes with non-corn-based fuels, our ethanol plants generally will be unable to pass along increased grain costs to their customers. At certain levels, grain prices may make ethanol uneconomical to produce. The price of corn and sorghum is influenced by weather conditions and other factors affecting crop yields, transportation costs, farmer planting decisions, exports, the value of the U.S. dollar and general economic, market and regulatory factors. These factors include government policies and subsidies with respect to agriculture and international trade, and global and local demand and supply. The significance and relative effect of these factors on the price of corn and sorghum is difficult to predict. Any event that tends to negatively affect the supply of corn or sorghum, such as adverse weather or crop disease, could increase corn and sorghum prices and potentially harm the business of our ethanol plants. Increasing domestic ethanol capacity could boost the demand for corn and sorghum and result in increased corn or sorghum prices. Our ethanol plants may also have difficulty, from time to time, in physically sourcing corn or sorghum on 11 economical terms due to supply shortages. Such a shortage could require our ethanol plants to suspend operations which would have a material adverse effect on the financial returns on our ethanol investments. The spread between ethanol and corn and sorghum prices can vary significantly. The gross margin at our ethanol plants depends principally on the spread between ethanol and corn or sorghum prices. Fluctuations in the spread are likely to continue to occur. A sustained narrow spread or any further reduction in the spread between ethanol and corn prices, whether as a result of sustained high or increased corn prices or sustained low or decreased ethanol prices, would adversely affect the results of operations at our ethanol plants. The market for natural gas is subject to market conditions that create uncertainty in the price and availability of the natural gas that our ethanol plants use in their manufacturing process. Our ethanol plants rely upon third parties for their supply of natural gas, which is consumed as fuel in the manufacture of ethanol. The prices for and availability of natural gas are subject to volatile market conditions. These market conditions often are affected by factors beyond the ethanol plants’ control, such as weather conditions, overall economic conditions and foreign and domestic governmental regulation and relations. Significant disruptions in the supply of natural gas could impair the ethanol plants’ ability to economically manufacture ethanol for their customers. Furthermore, increases in natural gas prices or changes in our natural gas costs relative to natural gas costs paid by competitors may adversely affect results of operations and financial position at our ethanol plants. Fluctuations in the selling price and production costs of gasoline may reduce profit margins at our ethanol plants. Ethanol is marketed as a fuel additive to reduce vehicle emissions from gasoline, as an octane enhancer to improve the octane rating of gasoline with which it is blended and, to a lesser extent, as a gasoline substitute. As a result, ethanol prices are influenced by the supply and demand for gasoline and our ethanol plants’ results of operations and financial position may be materially adversely affected if gasoline demand or price decreases. New plants under construction or decreases in demand for ethanol may result in excess production capacity in the ethanol industry, which may cause the price of ethanol and/or distillers grains to decrease. According to the Renewable Fuels Association, or RFA, domestic ethanol production nameplate capacity has increased to approximately 14.1 billion gallons per year at January 2011. The RFA estimates that, as of January 2011, approximately 560 million gallons per year of additional production capacity is under construction. Excess capacity in the ethanol industry would have an adverse effect on the results of our ethanol investments. In a manufacturing industry with excess capacity, producers have an incentive to manufacture additional products for so long as the price exceeds the marginal cost of production (i.e., the cost of producing only the next unit, without regard for interest, overhead or fixed costs). This incentive could result in the reduction of the market price of ethanol to a level that is inadequate to generate sufficient cash flow to cover costs. Excess capacity may also result from decreases in the demand for ethanol, which could result from a number of factors, including, but not limited to, regulatory developments and reduced U.S. gasoline consumption. Reduced gasoline consumption could occur as a result of increased prices for gasoline or crude oil, which could cause businesses and consumers to reduce driving or acquire vehicles with more favorable gasoline mileage or acquire hybrid vehicles. In addition, because ethanol production produces distillers grains as a co-product, increased ethanol production will also lead to increased supplies of distillers grains. An increase in the supply of distillers 12 grains, without corresponding increases in demand, could lead to lower prices or an inability to sell our ethanol plants’ distillers grains production. A decline in the price of distillers grains or the distillers grains market generally could have a material adverse effect on the results of our ethanol investments. We depend on our partners to operate our ethanol investments. Our investments currently represent both majority and minority equity positions, and day-to-day operating control of each plant generally remains with the local farmers’ cooperative or investor group that has promoted the plant. We may not have the ability to directly modify the operations of the plants in response to changes in the business environment or in response to any deficiencies in local operations of the plants. In addition, local plant operators, who also represent the primary suppliers of corn and other crops to the plants, may have interests, such as the price and sourcing of corn and other crops, that may differ from our interest, which is based solely on the operating profit of the plant. The limitations on our ability to control day-to-day plant operations could adversely affect plant results of operations. We may not successfully acquire or develop additional ethanol investments. The growth of our ethanol business depends on our ability to identify and develop new ethanol investments. Our ethanol development strategy depends on referrals, and introductions, to new investment opportunities from industry participants, such as ethanol plant builders, financial institutions, marketing agents and others. We must continue to maintain favorable relationships with these industry participants, and a material disruption in these sources of referrals would adversely affect our ability to expand our ethanol investments. Any expansion strategy will depend on prevailing market conditions for the price of ethanol and the costs of corn and natural gas and the expectations of future market conditions. There is increasing competition for suitable sites for ethanol plants. Even if suitable sites or opportunities are identified, we may not be able to secure the services and products from contractors, engineering firms, construction firms and equipment suppliers necessary to build or expand ethanol plants on a timely basis or on acceptable economic terms. Construction costs associated with expansion may increase to levels that would make a new plant too expensive to complete or unprofitable to operate. Additional financing may also be necessary to implement any expansion strategy, which may not be accessible or available on acceptable terms. Our ethanol plants may be adversely affected by technological advances and efforts to anticipate and employ such technological advances may prove unsuccessful. The development and implementation of new technologies may result in a significant reduction in the costs of ethanol production. For instance, any technological advances in the efficiency or cost to produce ethanol from inexpensive, cellulosic sources such as wheat, oat or barley straw could have an adverse effect on our ethanol plants, because those facilities are designed to produce ethanol from corn, which is, by comparison, a raw material with other high value uses. We cannot predict when new technologies may become available, the rate of acceptance of new technologies by competitors or the costs associated with new technologies. In addition, advances in the development of alternatives to ethanol could significantly reduce demand for or eliminate the need for ethanol. Any advances in technology which require significant unanticipated capital expenditures to remain competitive or which reduce demand or prices for ethanol would have a material adverse effect on the results of our ethanol investments. In addition, alternative fuels, additives and oxygenates are continually under development. Alternative fuel additives that can replace ethanol may be developed, which may decrease the demand for ethanol. It is also 13 possible that technological advances in engine and exhaust system design and performance could reduce the use of oxygenates, which would lower the demand for ethanol, and the results of our ethanol investments may be materially adversely affected. The U.S. ethanol industry is highly dependent upon a myriad of federal and state legislation and regulation and any changes in legislation or regulation could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. The elimination or significant reduction of the blender’s credit could have a material adverse effect on the results of our ethanol investments. The cost of production of ethanol is made significantly more competitive with regular gasoline by federal tax incentives. The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 created the Volumetric Ethanol Tax Credit, referred to as the “blender’s credit.” This credit currently allows gasoline distributors who blend ethanol with gasoline to receive a federal excise tax credit of $0.45 per gallon of pure ethanol, or $0.045 per gallon if blended with 10% ethanol (E10), and $0.3825 per gallon if blended with 85% ethanol (E85). The $0.45 per gallon incentive for ethanol was scheduled to expire on December 31, 2010 but was extended to December 31, 2011. The blender’s credit could be eliminated or reduced at any time through an act of Congress and may not be renewed in 2011 or may be renewed on different terms. In addition, the blender’s credit, as well as other federal and state programs benefiting ethanol (such as tariffs), generally are subject to U.S. government obligations under international trade agreements, including those under the World Trade Organization Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures, and might be the subject of challenges thereunder, in whole or in part. Ethanol can be imported into the U.S. duty-free from some countries, which may undermine the ethanol industry in the U.S. Imported ethanol is generally subject to a $0.54 per gallon tariff that was designed to offset the $0.45 per gallon ethanol incentive that is available under the federal excise tax incentive program for refineries that blend ethanol in their fuel. A special exemption from the tariff, known as the Caribbean Basin Initiative, exists for ethanol imported from 24 countries in Central America and the Caribbean Islands, which is limited to a total of 7% of U.S. production per year. Imports from the exempted countries may increase as a result of new plants under development. Since production costs for ethanol in these countries are estimated to be significantly less than what they are in the U.S., the duty-free import of ethanol through the countries exempted from the tariff may negatively affect the demand for domestic ethanol and the price at which our ethanol plants sell ethanol. Any changes in the tariff or exemption from the tariff could have a material adverse effect on the results of our ethanol investments. In addition, the North America Free Trade Agreement, or NAFTA, allows Canada and Mexico to export ethanol to the United States duty-free. The effect of the renewable fuel standard (“RFS”) program in the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 (the “2007 Act”) is uncertain. The mandated minimum level of use of renewable fuels in the RFS under the 2007 Act will increase from 12.95 billion gallons per year in 2010 to 36 billion gallons per year in 2022. The RFS mandate level for conventional biofuels, which includes corn-based ethanol, for 2011 is 12.6 billion gallons. This requirement progressively increases to 15 billion gallons by 2015 and remains at that level through 2022. The 2007 Act also requires the increased use of “advanced” biofuels, which are alternative biofuels produced without using corn starch such as cellulosic ethanol and biomass-based diesel, with 21 billion gallons of the mandated 36 billion gallons of renewable fuel required to come from advanced biofuels by 2022. Required RFS volumes for both general and advanced renewable fuels in years to follow 2022 will be determined by a governmental administrator, in coordination with the U.S. Department of Energy and U.S. Department of Agriculture. Increased competition from other types of biofuels could have a material adverse effect on the results of our ethanol investments. The RFS program and the 2007 Act also include provisions allowing “credits” to be granted to fuel producers who blend in their fuel more than the required percentage of renewable fuels in a given year. 14 These credits may be used in subsequent years to satisfy RFS production percentage and volume standards and may be traded to other parties. The accumulation of excess credits could further reduce the impact of the RFS mandate schedule and result in a lower ethanol price or could result in greater fluctuations in demand for ethanol from year to year, both of which could have a material adverse effect on the results of our ethanol investments. Waivers of the RFS minimum levels of renewable fuels included in gasoline could have a material adverse effect on the results of our ethanol investments. Under the RFS as passed as part of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, in consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of Energy, may waive the renewable fuels mandate with respect to one or more states if the Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, determines upon the petition of one or more states that implementing the requirements would severely harm the economy or the environment of a state, a region or the U.S., or that there is inadequate supply to meet the requirement. In addition, the 2007 Act allows any other person subject to the requirements of the RFS or the EPA Administrator to file a petition for such a waiver. Any waiver of the RFS with respect to one or more states could adversely offset demand for ethanol and could have a material adverse effect on the results of our ethanol investments. Changes in corporate average fuel economy standards could adversely impact ethanol prices. Flexible fuel vehicles receive preferential treatment in meeting federally mandated corporate average fuel economy (“CAFE”) standards for automobiles manufactured by car makers. High blend ethanol fuels such as E85 result in lower fuel efficiencies. Absent the CAFE preferences, car makers would not likely build flexible-fuel vehicles. Any change in CAFE preferences could reduce the growth of E85 markets and result in lower ethanol prices. Various studies have criticized the efficiency of ethanol, in general, and corn-based ethanol in particular, which could lead to the reduction or repeal of incentives and tariffs that promote the use and domestic production of ethanol or otherwise negatively impact public perception and acceptance of ethanol as an alternative fuel. Although many trade groups, academics and governmental agencies have supported ethanol as a fuel additive that promotes a cleaner environment, others have criticized ethanol production as consuming considerably more energy and emitting more greenhouse gases than other biofuels and as potentially depleting water resources. Other studies have suggested that corn-based ethanol is less efficient than ethanol produced from switchgrass or wheat grain and that it negatively impacts consumers by causing prices for dairy, meat and other foodstuffs from livestock that consume corn to increase. If these views gain acceptance, support for existing measures promoting use and domestic production of corn-based ethanol could decline, leading to reduction or repeal of these measures. These views could also negatively impact public perception of the ethanol industry and acceptance of ethanol as an alternative fuel. Federal support of cellulosic ethanol may result in reduced incentives to corn-derived ethanol producers. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 and the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 provide funding opportunities in support of cellulosic ethanol obtained from biomass sources such as switchgrass and poplar trees. The amended RFS mandates an increasing level of production of non-corn derived biofuels. These federal policies may suggest a long-term political preference for cellulosic processes using alternative feedstocks such as switchgrass, silage or wood chips. Cellulosic ethanol has a smaller carbon footprint and is unlikely to divert foodstuff from the market. Several cellulosic ethanol plants are under development and there is a risk that cellulosic ethanol could displace corn ethanol. Our plants are 15 designed as single-feedstock facilities, located in corn production areas with limited alternative feedstock nearby, and would require significant additional investment to convert to the production of cellulosic ethanol. The adoption of cellulosic ethanol as the preferred form of ethanol could have a significant adverse effect on our ethanol business. Our ethanol business is affected by environmental and other regulations which could impede or prohibit our ability to successfully operate our plants. Our ethanol production facilities are subject to extensive air, water and other environmental regulations. We have had to obtain numerous permits to construct and operate our plants. Regulatory agencies could impose conditions or other restrictions in the permits that are detrimental or which increase our costs. More stringent federal or state environmental regulations could be adopted which could significantly increase our operating costs or require us to expend considerable resources. Our ethanol plants emit various airborne pollutants as by-products of the ethanol production process, including carbon dioxide. In 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court classified carbon dioxide as an air pollutant under the Clean Air Act in a case seeking to require the EPA to regulate carbon dioxide in vehicle emissions. In February 2010, the EPA released its final regulations on the Renewable Fuel Standard program (RFS2). We believe our plants are grandfathered at their current operating capacity, but plant expansion will need to meet a 20% threshold reduction in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from a 2005 baseline measurement to produce ethanol eligible for the RFS2 mandate. Additionally, legislation is pending in Congress on a comprehensive carbon dioxide regulatory scheme, such as a carbon tax or cap-and-trade system. To expand our plant capacity, we may be required to obtain additional permits, install advanced technology such as corn oil extraction, or reduce drying of certain amounts of distillers grains. The California Air Resources Board has adopted a Low Carbon Fuel Standard requiring a 10% reduction in GHG emissions from transportation fuels by 2020. An Indirect Land Use Charge is included in this lifecycle GHG emission calculation. While this standard is being challenged by lawsuits, implementation of such a standard could have an adverse impact on our market for corn-based ethanol if determined that in California corn-based ethanol fails to achieve lifecycle GHG emission reductions. Our revenue from the sale of distillers grains depends upon its continued market acceptance as an animal feed. Distillers grains is a co-product from the fermentation of corn to produce ethanol. Antibiotics may be used during the fermentation process to control bacterial contamination; therefore antibiotics may be present in small quantities in distillers grains marketed as animal feed. The U. S. Food and Drug Administration’s, or FDA’s, Center for Veterinary Medicine has expressed concern about potential animal and human health hazards from the use of distillers grains as an animal feed due to the possibility of antibiotic residues. If the public became concerned about the impact of distillers grains in the food supply or as an acceptable animal feed, the market for distillers grains could be negatively impacted, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations. The price of distillers grains may decline as a result of China’s antidumping investigation of distillers grains originating in the United Sates. Estimates indicate that as much as 10 to 15 percent of the distiller grains produced in the United States will be exported to China in the coming year. However, this export market may be jeopardized if the Chinese government imposes trade barriers in response to the outcome of an antidumping investigation currently being conducted by the Chinese Ministry of Commerce. If producers and exporters of distiller grains are 16 subjected to trade barriers when selling distiller grains to Chinese customers, there may be a reduction in the price of distillers grains in the United States. Declines in the price we receive for our distillers grains could lead to decreased revenues and may result in our inability to operate the ethanol plant profitably. We face significant competition in the ethanol industry. We face significant competition for new ethanol investment opportunities. There are varied enterprises seeking to participate in the ethanol industry. Some enterprises provide financial and management support similar to our business model. Other enterprises seek to acquire or develop plants which they will directly own and operate. Many of our competitors are larger and have greater financial resources and name recognition than we do. We must compete for investment opportunities based on our strategy of supporting and enhancing local development of ethanol plant opportunities. We may not be successful in competing for investment opportunities based on our strategy. The ethanol industry is primarily comprised of smaller entities that engage exclusively in ethanol production and large integrated grain companies that produce ethanol along with their base grain business. Recently, several large oil companies have entered the ethanol production market. If these companies increase their ethanol plant ownership or other oil companies seek to engage in direct ethanol production, there would be less of a need to purchase ethanol from independent producers like our ethanol plants. There is a consolidation trend in the ethanol industry, partly a result of companies recently seeking protection under the United States Bankruptcy Code. As a result, firms are growing in size and scope. Larger firms offer efficiencies and economies of scale, resulting in lower costs of production. In addition, plants currently being or recently sold as part of a bankruptcy proceeding may have significantly lower costs than our ethanol plants. Absent significant growth and diversification, our ethanol plants may not be able to operate profitably in a more competitive environment. No assurance can be given that our ethanol plants will be able to compete successfully or that competition from larger companies with greater financial resources will not have a materially adverse affect on the results of our ethanol investments. We are exposed to credit risk from our sales of ethanol and distillers grains to customers. The inability of a customer to make payments to us for our accounts receivable may cause us to experience losses and may adversely impact our liquidity and our ability to make our payments when due. We may not be able to hire and retain qualified personnel to operate our ethanol plants. Our ability to attract and retain competent personnel has a significant impact on operating efficiencies and plant profitability. Competition for key plant employees in the ethanol industry can be intense, and we may not be able to attract and retain qualified employees. Failure to do so could have a negative impact on our financial results at individual plants. Our plants depend on an uninterrupted supply of energy and water to operate. Unforeseen plant shutdowns could harm our business. Our plants require a significant and uninterrupted supply of natural gas, electricity and water to operate. We generally rely on third parties to provide these resources. If there is an interruption in the supply of energy or water for any reason, such as supply, delivery or mechanical problems and we are unable to secure an adequate alternative supply to sustain plant operations, we may be required to stop production. A production halt for an extended period of time could result in material losses. 17 Potential business disruption from factors outside our control, including natural disasters, severe weather conditions, accidents, strikes, unexpected equipment failures and unforeseen plant shutdowns, could adversely affect our cash flow and operating results. The debt agreements for the ethanol plants contain restrictive financial and performance covenants. Our subsidiaries that operate ethanol plants (“Ethanol subsidiaries”) have debt agreements that contain covenants with several financial and performance restrictions. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the applicable agreement. If a default were to occur, the Ethanol subsidiary would likely seek a waiver of that default, attempt to reset the covenant, or refinance the instrument and accompanying obligations. If the Ethanol subsidiary was unable to obtain this relief, the default could result in the acceleration of the total due related to that debt obligation. If a default were to occur, the Ethanol subsidiary may not be able to pay its debts or borrow sufficient funds to refinance them. In addition, certain lease agreements could also be in default if a default of the debt agreement occurs. Any of these events, if they occur, could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. The debt agreements for the ethanol plants limit, or otherwise restrict the amount of dividends and other payments the ethanol operating subsidiaries can transfer to their members. We are dependent on dividends from our ethanol subsidiaries to generate cash flow. Presently, all of our ethanol subsidiaries have debt agreements that limit payments to members. Therefore, these companies cannot distribute all of the cash they generate to their members. Furthermore, we may not be able to use the excess cash flow from one subsidiary to fund corporate needs or needs of another operating ethanol subsidiary. Changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the results of our ethanol investments. One Earth and Patriot have interest rate swaps at January 31, 2011 that, in essence, fix the interest rate on a portion of their variable rate debt. During fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, we recognized losses on these swaps. Further reductions in interest rates could increase the liability position of the interest rate swaps, requiring us to record additional expense which could be material. The liability for these interest rate swaps could also result in a default of the term loan agreements’ restrictive financial covenants. In addition, increases in interest rates could have a negative impact on results of operations as all of the debt our ethanol plants have is variable rate debt. Furthermore, the interest rate swaps do not fix the interest rate on the entire portion of the related debt. Risks Related to the Wind Down and Exit of our Retail business and Risks Related to our Real Estate Segment. Our future costs associated with administering extended product service contracts may result in higher than expected costs. We will continue to administer extended product service contracts that have contractual maturities over the next three years. To the extent we do not have products or an adequate repair service network to satisfy warranty claims, we may incur material costs as we would be required to refund cash to customers for warranted products. We have a significant amount of vacant warehouse and retail space after the completion of the wind down of our retail business. 18 At January 31, 2011, we own one distribution facility and 23 former retail store properties comprising approximately 492,000 square feet that are completely or partially vacant. We are currently marketing these facilities for lease or sale. We may not be able to successfully lease or sell these properties which could result in lost opportunities for revenue or future impairment charges related to the carrying value of the associated assets. We also have costs related to the vacant properties such as property taxes and utilities that we would have to bear without any revenue from such properties. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 