Item 1A. RISK FACTORS You should consider carefully these risk factors together with all of the information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report in addition to our financial statements and the notes to our financial statements. This section includes forward-looking statements. The following is a discussion of the risk factors that we believe are material to us at this time. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones facing us and there may be additional matters that we are unaware of or that we currently consider immaterial. All of these could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Risks Related to our Business We currently have no product revenue and will need to raise capital to operate our business. To date, we have generated no product revenue and cannot predict when and if we will generate product revenue. We had an accumulated deficit of $345.7 million as of December 31, 2013. Until, and unless, we complete clinical trials and further development, and receive approval from the FDA and other regulatory authorities, for our product candidates, we cannot sell our drugs and will not have product revenue. We expect to spend substantial funds to continue the research, development and testing of our products that are in the preclinical and clinical testing stages of development and to prepare to commercialize products in anticipation of FDA approval. Therefore, for the foreseeable future, we will have to fund all of our operations and development expenditures from cash on hand, equity or debt financings, licensing fees and grants. Additional financing will be required to meet our long term liquidity needs. If we do not succeed in raising additional funds on acceptable terms, we might not be able to complete planned preclinical and clinical trials or obtain approval of any product candidates from the FDA and other regulatory authorities. In addition, we could be forced to discontinue product development, reduce or forego sales and marketing efforts, forego attractive business opportunities or curtail operations. Any additional sources of financing could involve the issuance of our equity securities, which would have a dilutive effect on our stockholders. No assurance can be given that additional financing will be available to us when needed on acceptable terms, or at all. We cannot be certain that we will achieve or sustain profitability in the future. Failure to achieve profitability could diminish our ability to sustain operations, pay dividends on our common stock, obtain additional required funds and make required payments on our present or future indebtedness. 20 We expect to incur future losses and we may never become profitable. We have incurred operating losses of $81.4 million, $58.1 million and $43.4 million during 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and expect to incur an operating loss in 2014. We believe that operating losses will continue in and beyond 2014 because we are planning to incur significant costs associated with the clinical development, manufacturing of commercial supply and building a commercial organization to prepare for the potential launch of rindopepimut and glembatumumab vedotin. In addition, we are planning to incur significant costs in the clinical development of varlilumab, CDX-301 and CDX-1401. Our net losses have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on, among other things, our stockholders' equity, total assets and working capital. We expect that losses will fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year, and that such fluctuations may be substantial. We cannot predict when we will become profitable, if at all. Our long term success depends heavily on our ability to fund and complete the research and development activities for and to commercialize our program assets, including our lead drug candidates, rindopepimut and glembatumumab vedotin. We are building a commercial organization to allow us the strategic option to retain the full commercial benefits of our program assets or to seek favorable economic terms through advantageous commercial partnerships. We plan to commercialize our lead drug candidate rindopepimut ourselves in North America. We may enter into co-development and commercialization partnerships for any of our programs where appropriate, including rindopepimut for commercialization outside of North America, glembatumumab vedotin and varlilumab. We must allocate a significant portion of our time, personnel and financial resources to the development of rindopepimut and glembatumumab vedotin. We initiated ACT IV, our pivotal Phase 3 clinical trial of rindopepimut, in December 2011. We anticipate ACT IV to cost over $70 million during its duration. We initiated METRIC, a randomized, controlled study of glembatumumab vedotin designed to obtain accelerated approval, in December 2013. The study is expected to include up to 100 sites and will enroll approximately 300 patients. We anticipate METRIC to cost over $30 million during its duration. Our management team lacks significant experience in completing Phase 3 clinical trials and bringing a drug through commercialization. If we face delays, difficulties or unanticipated costs in completing the development of rindopepimut or glembatumumab vedotin, we will need substantial additional financing. Further, even if we complete the development of rindopepimut or glembatumumab vedotin and gain marketing approvals from the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities in a timely manner, we cannot be sure that rindopepimut or glembatumumab vedotin will be commercially successful in the pharmaceutical market. If the results of clinical trials, the anticipated or actual timing of marketing approvals, or the market acceptance of rindopepimut or glembatumumab vedotin, if approved, do not meet the expectations of investors or public market analysts, the market price of our common stock would likely decline. We will need additional capital to fund our operations, including the development, manufacture and potential commercialization of our drug candidates. If we do not have or cannot raise additional capital when needed, we may be unable to develop and ultimately commercialize our drug candidates successfully. We expect to incur significant costs as we develop our drug candidates. In particular, the continuing development and commercialization of rindopepimut, glembatumumab vedotin and our other drug candidates requires additional capital beyond our current resources. As of December 31, 2013, we had cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of $303.0 million. We may take further steps to raise additional capital to fund our long-term liquidity needs. Our capital raising activities may include, but may not be limited to, one or more of the following: •licensing of drug candidates with existing or new collaborative partners; 21 •possible business combinations; •issuance of debt; or •issuance of common stock or other securities via private placements or public offerings. While we may continue to seek capital through a number of means, there can be no assurance that additional financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all, and our negotiating position in capital-raising efforts may worsen as existing resources are used. There is also no assurance that we will be able to enter into further collaborative relationships. Additional equity financing may be dilutive to our stockholders; debt financing, if available, may involve significant cash payment obligations and covenants that restrict our ability to operate as a business; and licensing or strategic collaborations may result in royalties or other terms which reduce our economic potential from products under development. If we are unable to raise the funds necessary to meet our long-term liquidity needs, we may have to delay or discontinue the development of one or more programs, discontinue or delay on-going or anticipated clinical trials, license out programs earlier than expected, raise funds at significant discount or on other unfavorable terms, if at all, or sell all or part of our business. We may be unable to manage multiple late stage clinical trials for a variety of product candidates simultaneously. As our current clinical trials progress, we may need to manage multiple late stage clinical trials simultaneously in order to continue developing all of our current products. Our management team does not have significant experience in completing late stage clinical trials and the management of late stage clinical trials is more complex and time consuming than early stage trials. Typically, early stage trials involve several hundred patients in no more than 10-30 clinical sites. Late stage (Phase 3) trials may involve up to several thousand patients in up to several hundred clinical sites and may require facilities in several countries. Therefore, the project management required to supervise and control such an extensive program is substantially larger than early stage programs. As the need for these resources is not known until some months before the trials begin, it is necessary to recruit large numbers of experienced and talented individuals very quickly. If the labor market does not allow this team to be recruited quickly, the sponsor is faced with a decision to delay the program or to initiate it with inadequate management resources. This may result in recruitment of inappropriate patients, inadequate monitoring of clinical investigators and inappropriate handling of data or data analysis. Consequently it is possible that conclusions of efficacy or safety may not be acceptable to permit filing of a BLA or NDA for any one of the above reasons or a combination of several. We rely on third parties to plan, conduct and monitor our clinical tests, and their failure to perform as required would interfere with our product development. We rely on third parties to conduct a significant portion of our clinical development activities. These activities include clinical patient recruitment and observation, clinical trial monitoring, clinical data management and analysis, safety monitoring and project management. We conduct project management and medical and safety monitoring in-house for some of our programs and rely on third parties for the remainder of our clinical development activities. The significant third parties who we currently rely on for clinical development activities include Novella Clinical, a Quintiles company, for our ACT IV study and PPD Development, LLC for our METRIC study. If Novella or PPD Development is unable to perform in a quality and timely manner, and at a feasible cost, ACT IV or METRIC will face delays. Further, if any of these third parties fails to perform as we expect or if their work fails to meet regulatory standards, our testing could be delayed, cancelled or rendered ineffective. 22 We may enter into collaboration agreements for the licensing, development and ultimate commercialization of some of our drug candidates including, where appropriate, for our lead drug candidates. In such cases, we will depend greatly on our third-party collaborators to license, develop and commercialize such drug candidates, and they may not meet our expectations. We may enter into co-development and commercialization partnerships for certain products, including rindopepimut for commercialization outside of North America, glembatumumab vedotin and varlilumab. The process of identifying collaborators and negotiating collaboration agreements for the licensing, development and ultimate commercialization of some of our drug candidates may cause delays and increased costs. We may not be able to enter into collaboration agreements on terms favorable to us. Furthermore some of those agreements may give substantial responsibility over our drug candidates to the collaborator. Some collaborators may be unable or unwilling to devote sufficient resources to develop our drug candidates as their agreements require. They often face business risks similar to ours, and this could interfere with their efforts. Also, collaborators may choose to devote their resources to products that compete with ours. If a collaborator does not successfully develop any one of our products, we will need to find another collaborator to do so. The success of our search for a new collaborator will depend on our legal right to do so at the time and whether the product remains commercially viable. If we enter into collaboration agreements for one or more of our lead drug candidates, the success of such drug candidates will depend in great part upon our and our collaborators' success in promoting them as superior to other treatment alternatives. We believe that our drug candidates can be proven to offer disease prevention and treatment with notable advantages over drugs in terms of patient compliance and effectiveness. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to prove these advantages or that the advantages will be sufficient to support the successful commercialization of our drug candidates. We may face delays, difficulties or unanticipated costs in establishing sales, distribution and manufacturing capabilities for our commercially ready products. We are in the process of building a commercial organization which we believe will provide us with the strategic options to either retain full economic rights to our drug candidates or seek favorable economic terms through advantageous commercial partnerships. As a result, we may have full responsibility for commercialization of these products if and when they are approved for sale. We currently lack the marketing, sales and distribution capabilities that we will need to carry out this strategy. To market any of our products directly, we must develop a substantial marketing and sales force with technical expertise and a supporting distribution capability. We have little expertise in this area, and we may not succeed. We may find it necessary to enter into strategic partnerships on uncertain but potentially unfavorable terms to sell, market and distribute our products when they are approved for sale. Some of our products are difficult to manufacture, especially in large quantities, and we have not yet developed commercial scale manufacturing processes for any of our products. We do not currently plan to develop internal manufacturing capabilities to produce any of our products at commercial scale if they are approved for sale. To the extent that we choose to market and distribute these products ourselves, this strategy will make us dependent on other companies to produce our products in adequate quantities, in compliance with regulatory requirements, and at a competitive cost. We may not find third parties capable of meeting those manufacturing needs. Our drug candidates are subject to extensive regulatory scrutiny. All of our drug candidates are at various stages of development and commercialization and our activities and drug candidates are significantly regulated by a number of governmental entities, 23 including the FDA in the United States and by comparable authorities in other countries. These entities regulate, among other things, the manufacture, testing, safety, effectiveness, labeling, documentation, advertising and sale of drugs and drug candidates. We or our partners must obtain regulatory approval for a drug candidate in all of these areas before we can commercialize the drug candidate. Product development within this regulatory framework takes a number of years and involves the expenditure of substantial resources. This process typically requires extensive preclinical and clinical testing, which may take longer or cost more than we anticipate, and may prove unsuccessful due to numerous factors. Many drug candidates that initially appear promising ultimately do not reach the market because they are found to be unsafe or ineffective when tested. Companies in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and immunotherapeutic drug industries have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after obtaining promising results in earlier trials. Our inability to commercialize a drug candidate would impair our ability to earn future revenues. If our products do not pass required tests for safety and effectiveness, we will not be able to derive commercial revenue from them. In order to succeed, we will need to derive commercial revenue from the products we have under development. The FDA has not approved our lead drug candidates, rindopepimut or glembatumumab vedotin, or any of our other products for sale to date. Our drug candidates are in various stages of preclinical and clinical testing. Preclinical tests are performed at an early stage of a product's development and provide information about a product's safety and effectiveness on laboratory animals. Preclinical tests can last years. If a product passes its preclinical tests satisfactorily, and we determine that further development is warranted, we would file an IND application for the product with the FDA, and if the FDA gives its approval we would begin Phase 1 clinical tests. Phase 1 testing generally lasts between 6 and 24 months. If Phase 1 test results are satisfactory and the FDA gives its approval, we can begin Phase 2 clinical tests. Phase 2 testing generally lasts between 6 and 36 months. If Phase 2 test results are satisfactory and the FDA gives its approval, we can begin Phase 3 pivotal studies. Phase 3 studies generally last between 12 and 48 months. Once clinical testing is completed and a new drug application is filed with the FDA, it may take more than a year to receive FDA approval. In all cases we must show that a pharmaceutical product is both safe and effective before the FDA, or drug approval agencies of other countries where we intend to sell the product, will approve it for sale. Our research and testing programs must comply with drug approval requirements both in the United States and in other countries, since we are developing our lead products with the intention to, or could later decide to, commercialize them both in the U.S. and abroad. A product may fail for safety or effectiveness at any stage of the testing process. A major risk we face is the possibility that none of our products under development will come through the testing process to final approval for sale, with the result that we cannot derive any commercial revenue from them after investing significant amounts of capital in multiple stages of preclinical and clinical testing. Product testing is critical to the success of our products but subject to delay or cancellation if we have difficulty enrolling patients. As our portfolio of potential products moves from preclinical testing to clinical testing, and then through progressively larger and more complex clinical trials, we will need to enroll an increasing number of patients with the appropriate characteristics. At times we have experienced difficulty enrolling patients and we may experience more difficulty as the scale of our clinical testing program increases. The factors that affect our ability to enroll patients are largely uncontrollable and include principally the following: •the nature of the clinical test; •the size of the patient population; 24 •patients' willingness to receive a placebo or less effective treatment on the control arm of a clinical study; •the distance between patients and clinical test sites; and •the eligibility criteria for the trial. If we cannot enroll patients as needed, our costs may increase or we may be forced to delay or terminate testing for a product. We may have delays in completing our clinical trials and we may not complete them at all. We have not completed the clinical trials necessary to obtain FDA approval to market rindopepimut, glembatumumab vedotin or any of our other products in development. We initiated a Phase 3 study of rindopepimut in December 2011 and a study designed for accelerated approval for glembatumumab vedotin in December 2013 but we have not initiated Phase 3 studies for any of our other products in development. Our management lacks significant experience in completing Phase 3 trials and bringing a drug through commercialization. Our rindopepimut Phase 3 trial, glembatumumab vedotin accelerated approval study and clinical trials for other products in development may be delayed or terminated as a result of many factors, including the following: •difficulty in enrolling patients in our clinical trials; •patients failing to complete clinical trials due to dissatisfaction with the treatment, side effects or other reasons; •failure by regulators to authorize us to commence a clinical trial; •suspension or termination by regulators of clinical research for many reasons, including concerns about patient safety or failure of our contract manufacturers to comply with cGMP requirements; •delays or failure to obtain clinical supply for our products necessary to conduct clinical trials from contract manufacturers, including commercial grade clinical supply for our Phase 3 clinical trials; •treatment candidates demonstrating a lack of efficacy during clinical trials; •inability to continue to fund clinical trials or to find a partner to fund the clinical trials; •competition with ongoing clinical trials and scheduling conflicts with participating clinicians; and •delays in completing data collection and analysis for clinical trials. Any delay or failure to complete clinical trials and obtain FDA approval for our drug candidates could have a material adverse effect on our cost to develop and commercialize, and our ability to generate revenue from, a particular drug candidate. Any delay in obtaining regulatory approval would have an adverse impact on our ability to earn future revenues. It is possible that none of the drug candidates that we develop will obtain the regulatory approvals necessary for us to begin commercializing them. The time required to obtain FDA and other approvals is unpredictable but often can take years following the commencement of clinical trials, depending upon the nature of the drug candidate. Any analysis we perform of data from clinical activities is subject to confirmation and interpretation by regulatory authorities, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Any delay or failure in obtaining required approvals could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenues from the particular drug candidate including, but not limited 25 to, loss of patent term during the approval period. Furthermore, if we, or our partners, do not reach the market with our products before our competitors offer products for the same or similar uses, or if we, or our partners, are not effective in marketing our products, our revenues from product sales, if any, will be reduced. We face intense competition in our development activities. We face competition from many companies in the United States and abroad, including a number of large pharmaceutical companies, firms specialized in the development and production of vaccines, adjuvants and vaccine and immunotherapeutic delivery systems and major universities and research institutions. The competitors of which we are aware that have initiated a Phase 3 study or have obtained marketing approval for a potentially competitive drug to rindopepimut for treatment of glioblastoma and/or glembatumumab vedotin for treatment of breast cancer include Arbor Pharmaceutics, Inc., AstraZeneca PLC, Bayer, Celgene Corporation, Eisai Inc., Eli Lilly and Company, Medigene AG, Northwest Biotherapeutics, Inc., Pfizer Inc., and Roche. Most of our competitors have substantially greater resources, more extensive experience in conducting preclinical studies and clinical testing and obtaining regulatory approvals for their products, greater operating experience, greater research and development and marketing capabilities and greater production capabilities than those of ours. These companies might succeed in obtaining regulatory approval for competitive products more rapidly than we can for our products, especially if we experience any delay in obtaining required regulatory approvals. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements would adversely impact our operations. Even after receiving regulatory approval, our products would be subject to extensive regulatory requirements, and our failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements will adversely impact our operations. In the United States, the FDA requires that the manufacturing facility that produces a product meet specified standards, undergo an inspection and obtain an establishment license prior to commercial marketing. Subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with a product or its manufacturing process may result in restrictions on the product or the manufacturer, including withdrawal of the product from the market. Failure to comply with the applicable regulatory requirements can result in fines, suspensions of regulatory approvals, product recalls, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. We depend greatly on the intellectual capabilities and experience of our key executives and scientists and the loss of any of them could affect our ability to develop our products. The loss of Anthony S. Marucci, our President and Chief Executive Officer, or other key members of our staff, including Avery W. Catlin, our Chief Financial Officer, Dr. Thomas Davis, our Chief Medical Officer, Dr. Tibor Keler, our Chief Scientific Officer or Dr. Ronald Pepin, our Chief Business Officer, could harm us. We entered into employment agreements with Messrs. Marucci, Catlin, Davis, Keler and Pepin although an employment agreement as a practical matter does not guarantee retention of an employee. We also depend on our scientific and clinical collaborators and advisors, all of whom have outside commitments that may limit their availability to us. In addition, we believe that our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled scientific, managerial and marketing personnel, particularly as we expand our activities in clinical trials, the regulatory approval process and sales and manufacturing. We routinely enter into consulting agreements with our scientific and clinical collaborators and advisors, key opinion leaders and heads of academic departments in the ordinary course of our business. We also enter into contractual agreements with physicians and institutions who recruit patients into our clinical trials on our behalf in the ordinary course of our business. Notwithstanding these arrangements, we face significant competition for this type of personnel from other companies, research and academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. We cannot predict our success in hiring or retaining the personnel we require for continued growth. 26 We rely on contract manufacturers over whom we have limited control. Should the cost, delivery and quality of clinical and commercial grade materials supplied by contract manufacturers vary to our disadvantage, our business operations could suffer significant harm. We have limited experience in commercial manufacturing. We rely on contract manufacturing organizations, or CMOs, to manufacture drug substance and drug product for our late-stage clinical studies of rindopepimut and glembatumumab vedotin as well as for future commercial supplies. We also rely on CMOs for filling, packaging, storage and shipping of drug product. In order for us to establish our own commercial manufacturing facility, we would require substantial additional funds and would need to hire and retain significant additional personnel and comply with the extensive cGMP regulations applicable to such a facility. The commercial manufacturing facility would also need to be licensed for the production of our drug candidates by the FDA. For our most advanced programs, we are working with CMOs under established manufacturing arrangements that comply with the FDA's requirements and other regulatory standards, although there is no assurance that the manufacturing will be successful. We currently use rindopepimut drug product that was manufactured by Pfizer and Jubilant Hollister Stier, in the ACT IV and ReACT clinical studies. In 2013, we established a relationship with SAFC, a division of the Sigma Aldrich Corporation, to manufacture rindopepimut for late stage development and commercial supply. We rely on Biosyn and Ambiopharm for supplying suitable quantities of cGMP starting materials for the manufacture of rindopepimut. We also rely on Sanofi to supply suitable quantities of commercial quality GM-CSF which is co-administered with rindopepimut. Any manufacturing failures or delays by our rindopepimut contract manufacturers or suppliers of critical materials could cause delays in the ACT IV and ReACT studies and/or the commercial launch of rindopepimut. To date, we have utilized contract manufacturing organizations for the manufacture of clinical trial supplies of glembatumumab vedotin. In 2013, we established a relationship with Lonza, AG to manufacture the CR-011 antibody and Piramal Healthcare UK Ltd. to conjugate the CR-011 antibody and stable linker with the MMAE toxin. We rely on SAFC for sourcing of suitable quantities of vcMMAE. Any manufacturing failures or delays by our glembatumumab vedotin contract manufacturers or suppliers of materials could cause delays in the METRIC study and/or the commercial launch of glembatumumab vedotin. We have established our own cGMP manufacturing facility in Fall River, Massachusetts, to produce clinical materials for our current and planned Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical trials. Our Fall River manufacturing facility has up to 1000L bioreactor capacity and is able to manufacture in compliance with FDA and EMEA regulations, allowing us to distribute potential products to clinical sites in both the US and EU for early clinical trials. We manufacture clinical materials of varlilumab, CDX-1401, and CDX-301 in our Fall River facility for our current and planned Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical trials. The products are filled and packaged at CMOs. Any manufacturing failures or compliance issues at contract manufacturers could cause delays in our Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical studies. The manufacturing processes for our drug candidates and immunotherapeutic delivery systems utilize known technologies. We believe that the products we currently have under development can be scaled up to permit manufacture in commercial quantities. However, there can be no assurance that we will not encounter difficulties in scaling up the manufacturing processes. Our leading drug candidates require specialized manufacturing capabilities and processes. We may face difficulty in securing commitments from U.S. and foreign contract manufacturers as these manufacturers could be unwilling or unable to accommodate our needs. Relying on foreign manufacturers involves peculiar and increased risks, including the risk relating to the difficulty foreign manufacturers may face in complying with cGMP requirements as a result of language barriers, lack of 27 familiarity with cGMP or the FDA regulatory process or other causes, economic or political instability in or affecting the home countries of our foreign manufacturers, shipping delays, potential changes in foreign regulatory laws governing the sales of our product supplies, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and the imposition or application of trade restrictions. There can be no assurances that contract manufacturers will be able to meet our timetable and requirements. Further, contract manufacturers must operate in compliance with cGMP and failure to do so could result in, among other things, the disruption of product supplies. As noted above, non-U.S. contract manufacturers may face special challenges in complying with cGMP requirements, and although we are not currently dependent on non-U.S. collaborators or contract manufacturers, we may choose or be required to rely on non-U.S. sources in the future as we seek to develop stable supplies of increasing quantities of materials for ongoing clinical trials of larger scale. Our dependence upon third parties for the manufacture of our products may adversely affect our profit margins and our ability to develop and deliver products on a timely and competitive basis. Other factors could affect the demand for and sales of any products that we may commercialize in the future. In general, other factors that could affect the demand for and sales and profitability of our products include, but are not limited to: •the timing of regulatory approval, if any, of competitive products; •our or any other of our partners' pricing decisions, as applicable, including a decision to increase or decrease the price of a product, and the pricing decisions of our competitors; •government and third-party payer reimbursement and coverage decisions that affect the utilization of our products and competing products; •negative safety or efficacy data from new clinical studies conducted either in the U.S. or internationally by any party could cause the sales of our products to decrease or a product to be recalled; •the degree of patent protection afforded our products by patents granted to or licensed by us and by the outcome of litigation involving our or any of our licensor's patents; •the outcome of litigation involving patents of other companies concerning our products or processes related to production and formulation of those products or uses of those products; •the increasing use and development of alternate therapies; •the rate of market penetration by competing products; and •the termination of, or change in, existing arrangements with our partners. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on the sales of any products that we may commercialize in the future. We face the risk of product liability claims, which could exceed our insurance coverage, and produce recalls, each of which could deplete our cash resources. As a participant in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and immunotherapeutic drug industries, we are exposed to the risk of product liability claims alleging that use of our drug candidates caused an injury or harm. These claims can arise at any point in the development, testing, manufacture, marketing or sale of our drug candidates and may be made directly by patients involved in clinical trials of our products, by consumers or healthcare providers or by individuals, organizations or companies selling our products. Product liability claims can be expensive to defend, even if the drug or drug candidate did not actually cause the alleged injury or harm. 28 Insurance covering product liability claims becomes increasingly expensive as a drug candidate moves through the development pipeline to commercialization. Under our license agreements, we are required to maintain clinical trial liability insurance coverage up to $15 million. However, there can be no assurance that such insurance coverage is or will continue to be adequate or available to us at a cost acceptable to us or at all. We may choose or find it necessary under our collaborative agreements to increase our insurance coverage in the future. We may not be able to secure greater or broader product liability insurance coverage on acceptable terms or at reasonable costs when needed. Any liability for damages resulting from a product liability claim could exceed the amount of our coverage, require us to pay a substantial monetary award from our own cash resources and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, a product recall, if required, could generate substantial negative publicity about our products and business and inhibit or prevent commercialization of other products and drug candidates. In addition, some of our licensing and other agreements with third parties require or might require us to maintain product liability insurance. If we cannot maintain acceptable amounts of coverage on commercially reasonable terms in accordance with the terms set forth in these agreements, the corresponding agreements would be subject to termination, which could have a material adverse impact on our operations. Our reliance on third parties requires us to share our trade secrets, which increases the possibility that a competitor will discover them. Because we rely on third parties to develop our products, we must share trade secrets with them. We seek to protect our proprietary technology in part by entering into confidentiality agreements and, if applicable, material transfer agreements, collaborative research agreements, consulting agreements or other similar agreements with our collaborators, advisors, employees and consultants prior to beginning research or disclosing proprietary information. These agreements typically restrict the ability of our collaborators, advisors, employees and consultants to publish data potentially relating to our trade secrets. Our academic collaborators typically have rights to publish data, provided that we are notified in advance and may delay publication for a specified time in order to secure our intellectual property rights arising from the collaboration. In other cases, publication rights are controlled exclusively by us, although in some cases we may share these rights with other parties. We also conduct joint research and development programs which may require us to share trade secrets under the terms of research and development partnership or similar agreements. Despite our efforts to protect our trade secrets, our competitors may discover our trade secrets, either through breach of these agreements, independent development or publication of information including our trade secrets in cases where we do not have proprietary or otherwise protected rights at the time of publication. A competitor's discovery of our trade secrets would impair our competitive position. We may not be able to successfully integrate newly-acquired technology with our existing technology or to modify our technologies to create new immunotherapeutic drugs As part of our acquisition of technology assets from entities such as Amgen, we have acquired access to Fms-like tyrosine kinase 3 ligand, or Flt3L, which may improve the immunogenicity of our immunotherapeutic drugs. If we are able to integrate these licensed assets with our immunotherapy technologies, we believe these assets will give our immunotherapeutic drugs a competitive advantage. However, if we are unable to successfully integrate licensed assets, or other technologies which we have acquired or may acquire in the future, with our existing technologies and potential products currently under development, we may be unable to realize any benefit from our acquisition of these assets, or other technologies which we have acquired or may acquire in the future and may face the loss of our investment of financial resources and time in the integration process. 29 We believe that our immunotherapy technology portfolio may offer opportunities to develop immunotherapeutic drugs that treat a variety of oncology, inflammatory and infectious diseases by stimulating a patient's immune system against those disease organisms. If our immunotherapy technology portfolio cannot be used to create effective immunotherapeutic drugs against a variety of disease organisms, we may lose all or portions of our investment in development efforts for new drug candidates. We license technology from other companies to develop products, and those companies could influence research and development or restrict our use of it. Companies that license technologies to us that we use in our research and development programs may require us to achieve milestones or devote minimum amounts of resources to develop products using those technologies. They may also require us to make significant royalty and milestone payments, including a percentage of any sublicensing income, as well as payments to reimburse them for patent costs. The number and variety of our research and development programs require us to establish priorities and to allocate available resources among competing programs. From time to time we may choose to slow down or cease our efforts on particular products. If in doing so we fail to fully perform our obligations under a license, the licensor can terminate the licenses or permit our competitors to use the technology. Moreover, we may lose our right to market and sell any products based on the licensed technology. We have many competitors in our field and they may develop technologies that make ours obsolete. Biotechnology, pharmaceuticals and therapeutics are rapidly evolving fields in which scientific and technological developments are expected to continue at a rapid pace. We have many competitors in the U.S. and abroad. The competitors of which we are aware that have initiated a Phase 3 study or have obtained marketing approval for a potentially competitive drug to rindopepimut for treatment of glioblastoma and/or glembatumumab vedotin for treatment of breast cancer include Arbor Pharmaceutics, Inc., AstraZeneca PLC, Bayer, Celgene Corporation, Eisai Inc., Eli Lilly and Company, Medigene AG, Northwest Biotherapeutics, Inc., Pfizer Inc., and Roche. Our success depends upon our ability to develop and maintain a competitive position in the product categories and technologies on which we focus. Many of our competitors have greater capabilities, experience and financial resources than we do. Competition is intense and is expected to increase as new products enter the market and new technologies become available. Our competitors may: •develop technologies and products that are more effective than ours, making ours obsolete or otherwise noncompetitive; •obtain regulatory approval for products more rapidly or effectively than us; and 30 •obtain patent protection or other intellectual property rights that would block our ability to develop competitive products. We rely on patents, patent applications and other intellectual property protections to protect our technology and trade secrets; which are expensive and may not provide sufficient protection. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for technologies that we use. Biotechnology patents involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions and are highly uncertain. To date, there is no consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology patents, particularly in regard to patents for technologies for human uses like those we use in our business. We cannot predict whether the patents we seek will issue. If they do issue, a competitor may challenge them and limit their scope. Moreover, our patents may not afford effective protection against competitors with similar technology. A successful challenge to any one of our patents could result in a third party's ability to use the technology covered by the patent. We also face the risk that others will infringe, avoid or circumvent our patents. Technology that we license from others is subject to similar risks and this could harm our ability to use that technology. If we, or a company that licenses technology to us, were not the first creator of an invention that we use, our use of the underlying product or technology will face restrictions, including elimination. If we must defend against suits brought against us or prosecute suits against others involving intellectual property rights, we will incur substantial costs. In addition to any potential liability for significant monetary damages, a decision against us may require us to obtain licenses to patents or other intellectual property rights of others on potentially unfavorable terms. If those licenses from third parties are necessary but we cannot acquire them, we would attempt to design around the relevant technology, which would cause higher development costs and delays, and may ultimately prove impracticable. Our business requires us to use hazardous materials, which increases our exposure to dangerous and costly accidents. Our research and development activities involve the use of hazardous chemicals, biological materials and radioactive compounds. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of hazardous materials comply with the standards prescribed by applicable laws and regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of an accident, an injured party will likely sue us for any resulting damages with potentially significant liability. The ongoing cost of complying with environmental laws and regulations is significant and may increase in the future. Health care reform and restrictions on reimbursement may limit our returns on potential products. Because our strategy ultimately depends on the commercial success of our products, we assume, among other things, that end users of our products will be able to pay for them. In the United States and other countries, in most cases, the volume of sales of products like those we are developing depends on the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors, including national health care agencies, private health insurance plans and health maintenance organizations. Third-party payors increasingly challenge the prices charged for medical products and services. Accordingly, if we succeed in bringing products to market, and reimbursement is not available or is insufficient, we could be prevented from successfully commercializing our potential products. The health care industry in the United States and in Europe is undergoing fundamental changes as a result of political, economic and regulatory influences. Reforms proposed from time to time include mandated basic health care benefits, controls on health care spending, the establishment of governmental controls over the cost of therapies, creation of large medical services and products 31 purchasing groups and fundamental changes to the health care delivery system. We anticipate ongoing review and assessment of health care delivery systems and methods of payment in the United States and other countries. We cannot predict whether any particular reform initiatives will result or, if adopted, what their impact on us will be. However, we expect that adoption of any reform proposed will impair our ability to market products at acceptable prices and that uncertainty concerning future government regulation of consumer healthcare purchasing and insurance may result in difficulties for drug development companies, like us, in raising capital. Changes in laws affecting the health care industry could adversely affect our business. In the U.S., there have been numerous proposals considered at the federal and state levels to reform the health care industry and its cost, and it is likely that federal and state legislatures and health agencies will continue to focus on health care reform in the future. While additional health care reform may increase the number of patients who have insurance coverage for our products, it may also include cost containment measures that adversely affect reimbursement for our products. Congress has also considered legislation to change the Medicare reimbursement system for outpatient drugs, increase the amount of rebates that manufacturers pay for coverage of their drugs by Medicaid programs and facilitate the importation of lower-cost prescription drugs that are marketed outside the U.S. Some states are also considering legislation that would control the prices of drugs, and state Medicaid programs are increasingly requesting manufacturers to pay supplemental rebates and requiring prior authorization by the state program for use of any drug for which supplemental rebates are not being paid. Managed care organizations continue to seek price discounts and, in some cases, to impose restrictions on the coverage of particular drugs. Government efforts to reduce Medicaid expenses may lead to increased use of managed care organizations by Medicaid programs. This may result in managed care organizations influencing prescription decisions for a larger segment of the population and a corresponding constraint on prices and reimbursement for our products. We and our collaborators and partners operate in a highly regulated industry. As a result, governmental actions may adversely affect our business, operations or financial condition, including: •new laws, regulations or judicial decisions, or new interpretations of existing laws, regulations or decisions, related to health care availability, method of delivery and payment for health care products and services; •changes in the FDA and foreign regulatory approval processes that may delay or prevent the approval of new products and result in lost market opportunity; •changes in FDA and foreign regulations that may require additional safety monitoring, labeling changes, restrictions on product distribution or use, or other measures after the introduction of our products to market, which could increase our costs of doing business, adversely affect the future permitted uses of approved products, or otherwise adversely affect the market for our products; •new laws, regulations and judicial decisions affecting pricing or marketing practices; and •changes in the tax laws relating to our operations. The enactment in the U.S. of health care reform, possible legislation which could ease the entry of competing follow-on biologics in the marketplace, new legislation or implementation of existing statutory provisions on importation of lower-cost competing drugs from other jurisdictions, and legislation on comparative effectiveness research are examples of previously enacted and possible future changes in laws that could adversely affect our business. In addition, the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 included new authorization for the FDA to require post-market safety monitoring, along with an expanded clinical trials registry and clinical trials results database, and 32 expanded authority for the FDA to impose civil monetary penalties on companies that fail to meet certain commitments. If physicians, patients and third-party payors do not accept any future drugs that we may develop, we may be unable to generate significant revenue, if any. Even if our drug candidates as well as any drug candidates that we may develop or acquire in the future obtain regulatory approval, they may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients and health care payors. Physicians may elect not to recommend these drugs for a variety of reasons including: •timing of market introduction of competitive drugs; •lower demonstrated clinical safety and efficacy compared to other drugs; •lack of cost-effectiveness; •lack of availability of reimbursement from third-party payors; •convenience and ease of administration; •prevalence and severity of adverse side effects; •other potential advantages of alternative treatment methods; and •ineffective marketing and distribution support. If any drugs that we are developing fail to achieve market acceptance, we would not be able to generate sufficient revenue from product sales to maintain or grow our business. Risks Related to our Capital Stock Our history of losses and uncertainty of future profitability make our common stock a highly speculative investment. We have had no commercial revenue to date from sales of our drug candidates. We had an accumulated deficit of $345.7 million as of December 31, 2013. We expect to spend substantial funds to continue the research and development testing of our products candidates. In anticipation of FDA approval of these products, we will need to make substantial investments to establish sales, marketing, quality control, regulatory compliance capabilities and commercial manufacturing alliances. These investments will increase if and when any of these products receive FDA approval. We cannot predict how quickly our lead products will progress through the regulatory approval process. As a result, we may continue to lose money for several years. We cannot be certain that we will achieve or sustain profitability in the future. Failure to achieve profitability could diminish our ability to sustain operations, pay dividends on our common stock, obtain additional required funds and make required payments on our present or future indebtedness. Our share price has been and could remain volatile. The market price of our common stock has historically experienced and may continue to experience significant volatility. From January 2013 through December 2013, the market price of our common stock has fluctuated from a high of $38.84 per share in the fourth quarter of 2013, to a low of $6.81 per share in the first quarter of 2013. Our progress in developing and commercializing our products, the impact of government regulations on our products and industry, the potential sale of a large volume of our common stock by stockholders, our quarterly operating results, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets and other developments affecting us or our 33 competitors could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially with significant market losses. If our stockholders sell a substantial number of shares of common stock, especially if those sales are made during a short period of time, those sales could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital. In addition, in recent years, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has affected the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance and may adversely affect the price of our common stock. In addition, we could be subject to a securities class action litigation as a result of volatility in the price of our stock, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of management's attention and resources and could harm our stock price, business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards will be subject to limitation and, under certain circumstances, may be eliminated. Utilization of our net operating loss and research and development credit carryforwards may be subject to substantial annual limitation due to ownership change limitations that have occurred previously or that could occur in the future provided by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or Section 382, as well as similar state provisions. In general, an ownership change, as defined by Section 382, results from transactions increasing the ownership of certain shareholders or public groups in the stock of a corporation by more than 50 percentage points over a three-year period. In October 2007, June 2009 and in December 2009, we experienced a change in ownership as defined by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. Historically, we have raised capital through the issuance of capital stock on several occasions which, combined with shareholders' subsequent disposition of those shares, has resulted in three changes of control, as defined by Section 382. As a result of the ownership change in October 2007, utilization of our Federal net operating loss carryforwards is subject to an annual limitation. Any unused annual limitation may be carried over to later years, and the amount of the limitation may, under certain circumstances, be subject to adjustment if the fair value of the our net assets are determined to be below or in excess of the tax basis of such assets at the time of the ownership change, and such unrealized loss or gain is recognized during the five-year period after the ownership change. Subsequent ownership changes, as defined in Section 382, could further limit the amount of net operating loss carryforwards and research and development credits that can be utilized annually to offset future taxable income. We have not undertaken a study to assess whether an ownership change or multiple ownership changes has occurred for (i) AVANT or CuraGen prior to our acquisitions, (ii) the Company on the state level, (iii) the Company since October 2012, or (iv) research and development credits. If, based on such a study, we were to determine that there has been an ownership change at any time since its formation, utilization of net operating loss or tax credit carryforwards would be subject to an annual limitation under Section 382. Refer to Note 15, "Income Taxes," in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements for additional discussion on income taxes. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 34 