Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully these risk factors together with all of the information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report in addition to our financial statements and the notes to our financial statements. This section includes forward-looking statements. 25 Table of Contents The following is a discussion of the risk factors that we believe are material to Celldex at this time. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones facing Celldex and there may be additional matters that we are unaware of or that we currently consider immaterial. All of these could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Risks Related to Our Business Our products and product candidates are subject to extensive regulatory scrutiny. All of our products and product candidates are at various stages of development and commercialization and our activities, products and product candidates are significantly regulated by a number of governmental entities, including the FDA in the United States and by comparable authorities in other countries and by the USDA in the United States with respect to products developed for animal health and food safety. These entities regulate, among other things, the manufacture, testing, safety, effectiveness, labeling, documentation, advertising and sale of our products and product candidates. We or our partners must obtain regulatory approval for a product candidate in all of these areas before we can commercialize the product candidate. Product development within this regulatory framework takes a number of years and involves the expenditure of substantial resources. This process typically requires extensive pre-clinical and clinical testing, which may take longer or cost more than we anticipate, and may prove unsuccessful due to numerous factors. Many product candidates that initially appear promising ultimately do not reach the market because they are found to be unsafe or ineffective when tested. Companies in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and vaccines industries have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after obtaining promising results in earlier trials. Our inability to commercialize a product or product candidate would impair our ability to earn future revenues. If our products do not pass required tests for safety and effectiveness, we will not be able to derive commercial revenue from them. For Celldex to succeed, we will need to derive commercial revenue from the products we have under development. The FDA has not approved our CDX-110 product candidate or any of our lead products for sale to date. Products in our vaccine programs are in various stages of pre-clinical and clinical testing. Pre-clinical tests are performed at an early stage of a product's development and provide information about a product's safety and effectiveness on laboratory animals. Pre-clinical tests can last years. If a product passes its pre-clinical tests satisfactorily, and we determine that further development is warranted, we file an investigational new drug application for the product with the FDA, and if the FDA gives its approval we begin phase 1 clinical tests. Phase 1 testing generally lasts between 6 and 24 months. If phase 1 test results are satisfactory and the FDA gives its approval, we can begin phase 2 clinical tests. Phase 2 testing generally lasts between 6 and 36 months. If phase 2 test results are satisfactory and the FDA gives its approval, we can begin phase 3 pivotal studies. Phase 3 studies generally last between 12 and 48 months. Once clinical testing is completed and a new drug application is filed with the FDA, it may take more than a year to receive FDA approval. In all cases we must show that a pharmaceutical product is both safe and effective before the FDA, or drug approval agencies of other countries where we intend to sell the product, will approve it for sale. Our research and testing programs must comply with drug approval requirements both in the United States and in other countries, since we are developing our lead products with companies, including Glaxo and Pfizer, which intend to or could later decide to commercialize them both in the U.S. and abroad. A product may fail for safety or effectiveness at any stage of the testing process. A major risk we face is the possibility that none of our products under development will come through the testing process to final approval for sale, with the result that we cannot derive any commercial revenue from them after investing significant amounts of capital in multiple stages of pre-clinical and clinical testing. 26 Table of Contents Product testing is critical to the success of our products but subject to delay or cancellation if we have difficulty enrolling patients. As our portfolio of potential products moves from pre-clinical testing to clinical testing, and then through progressively larger and more complex clinical trials, we will need to enroll an increasing number of patients with the appropriate characteristics. At times we have experienced difficulty enrolling patients and we may experience more difficulty as the scale of our clinical testing program increases. The factors that affect our ability to enroll patients are largely uncontrollable and include principally the following: •the nature of the clinical test; •the size of the patient population; •patients willingness to receive a placebo or less effective treatment on the control arm of a clinical study; •the distance between patients and clinical test sites; and •the eligibility criteria for the trial. If we cannot enroll patients as needed, our costs may increase or it could force us to delay or terminate testing for a product. Any delay in obtaining regulatory approval would have an adverse impact on our ability to earn future revenues. It is possible that none of the products or product candidates that we develop will obtain the regulatory approvals necessary for us to begin commercializing them. The time required to obtain FDA and other approvals is unpredictable but often can take years following the commencement of clinical trials, depending upon the nature of the product candidate. Any analysis we perform of data from clinical activities is subject to confirmation and interpretation by regulatory authorities, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Any delay or failure in obtaining required approvals could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenues from the particular product candidate. Furthermore, if we, or our partners, do not reach the market with our products before our competitors offer products for the same or similar uses, or if we, or our partners, are not effective in marketing our products, our revenues from product sales, if any, will be reduced. We face intense competition in our development activities. We face competition from many companies in the United States and abroad, including a number of large pharmaceutical companies, firms specialized in the development and production of vaccines, adjuvants and vaccine and immunotherapeutic delivery systems and major universities and research institutions. These competitors include Anitgenics, Baxter, Crucell, Dendreon, Emergent, GlaxoSmithKline, Intercell, Sanofi-Aventis, Maxygen, Merck, NeoPharm, Novavax, Pfizer, Roche, Genitope, Northwest Biotherapeutics, Vical and Cell Genesys. Most of our competitors have substantially greater resources, more extensive experience in conducting pre-clinical studies and clinical testing and obtaining regulatory approvals for their products, greater operating experience, greater research and development and marketing capabilities and greater production capabilities than those of Celldex. These companies might succeed in obtaining regulatory approval for competitive products more rapidly than we can for our products, especially if we experience any delay in obtaining required regulatory approvals. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements would adversely impact our operations. Even after receiving regulatory approval, our products would eb subject to extensive regulatory requirements, and our failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements will adversely impact our operations. In the United States, the FDA and USDA, as applicable, require that the 27 Table of Contents manufacturing facility that produces a product meet specified standards, undergo an inspection and obtain an establishment license prior to commercial marketing. Under USDA regulations, this license is held by the manufacturer of the product and not the developer of the product. Subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with a product or its manufacturing process may result in restrictions on the product or the manufacturer, including withdrawal of the product from the market. Failure to comply with the applicable regulatory requirements can result in fines, suspensions of regulatory approvals, product recalls, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. We depend greatly on the intellectual capabilities and experience of our key executives and scientists and the loss of any of them could affect our ability to develop our products. The loss of Anthony S. Marucci, our President and Chief Executive Officer, or other key members of our staff, including Avery W. Catlin, our Chief Financial Officer, Dr. Thomas Davis, our Chief Medical officer, or Dr. Tibor Keler, our Chief Scientific Officer, could harm us. We entered into employment agreements with Messrs. Marucci, Catlin, Davis and Keler. We also depend on our scientific and clinical collaborators and advisors, all of whom have outside commitments that may limit their availability to us. In addition, we believe that our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled scientific, managerial and marketing personnel, particularly as we expand our activities in clinical trials, the regulatory approval process and sales and manufacturing. We routinely enter into consulting agreements with our scientific and clinical collaborators and advisors, opinion leaders and heads of academic departments in the ordinary course of our business. We also enter into contractual agreements with physicians and institutions who recruit patients into our clinical trials on our behalf in the ordinary course of our business. Notwithstanding these arrangements, we face significant competition for this type of personnel from other companies, research and academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. We cannot predict our success in hiring or retaining the personnel we require for continued growth. We rely on contract manufacturers. Should the cost, delivery and quality of clinical and commercial grade materials supplied by contract manufacturers vary to our disadvantage, our business operations could suffer significant harm. Although we have small-lot manufacturing capability at our Fall River facility, we have in the past relied on, and expect to continue to rely on sourcing from third-party manufacturers for suitable quantities of some of our clinical and commercial grade materials essential to pre-clinical and clinical studies currently underway and to planned clinical trials in addition to those currently being conducted by third parties or us. The inability to have suitable quality and quantities of these essential materials produced in a timely manner would result in significant delays in the clinical development and commercialization of products, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may rely on collaborators and contract manufacturers to manufacture proposed products in both clinical and commercial quantities in the future. Our leading vaccine candidates require specialized manufacturing capabilities and processes. We have faced difficulties in securing commitments from U.S. and foreign contract manufacturers as these manufacturers have at times been unwilling or unable to accommodate our needs. Relying on foreign manufacturers involves peculiar and increased risks, and on one occasion we had to terminate a contract with a foreign manufacturer and find a substitute source of material for planned clinical trials. These peculiar and increased risks include risks relating to the difficulties foreign manufacturers may face in complying with the FDA's Good Manufacturing Practices, or GMP, as a result of language barriers, lack of familiarity with GMP or the FDA regulatory process or other causes, economic or political instability in or affecting the home countries of our foreign manufacturers, shipping delays, potential changes in foreign regulatory laws governing the sales of our product supplies, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and the imposition or application of trade restrictions. 28 Table of Contents There can be no assurances that we will be able to enter into long-term arrangements with third party manufacturers on acceptable terms or at all. Further, contract manufacturers must also be able to meet our timetable and requirements, and must operate in compliance with GMP; failure to do so could result in, among other things, the disruption of product supplies. As noted above, non-U.S. contract manufacturers may face special challenges in complying with the FDA's GMP requirements, and although we are not currently dependent on non-U.S. collaborators or contract manufacturers, we may choose or be required to rely on non-U.S. sources in the future as we seek to develop stable supplies of increasing quantities of materials for ongoing clinical trials of larger scale. Our dependence upon third parties for the manufacture of our products may adversely affect our profit margins and our ability to develop and deliver products on a timely and competitive basis. Prior to the establishment in 2008 of our own in-house antibody manufacturing capabilities at our Fall River facility, we had depended on third party suppliers and manufacturers, including Medarex, Biosyn Corporation, American Peptide Company, AmbioPharm, Inc., WRAIR, Lonza Biologics plc, Bioconcept, Inc., NeoMPS, Inc. and LAHI, to provide us with suitable quantities of materials necessary for clinical tests. If these materials are not available in suitable quantities of appropriate quality, in a timely manner, and at a feasible cost, our clinical tests will face delays. We rely on third parties to plan, conduct and monitor our clinical tests, and their failure to perform as required would interfere with our product development. We have relied on third parties, including, among others, Omnicare, Inc., Accelovance, the International Center for Diarrhoeal Disease Research, Bangladesh, the International Vaccines Institute, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center, The Cleveland Clinic, Radiant Research, Inc., Biobridges, LLC, Glaser Research Group, the NIH, Pfizer, Inc. and Glaxo to conduct the significant majority of our clinical research development activities. These activities can be characterized as clinical patient recruitment and observation, clinical trial monitoring, clinical data management and analysis, safety monitoring and project management. We conduct approximately 75% of our project management and 50% of our medical and safety monitoring in-house and rely on third parties for the remainder of our clinical development activities. If any of these third parties fails to perform as we expect or if their work fails to meet regulatory standards, our testing could be delayed, cancelled or rendered ineffective. We depend greatly on third party collaborators to license, develop and commercialize some of our products, and they may not meet our expectations. We have agreements with other companies, including Glaxo, Pfizer, Biolipox and VTI for the licensing, development and ultimate commercialization of some of our products. Some of those agreements give substantial responsibility over the products to the collaborator. Some collaborators may be unable or unwilling to devote sufficient resources to develop our products as their agreements require. They often face business risks similar to ours, and this could interfere with their efforts. Also, collaborators may choose to devote their resources to products that compete with ours. If a collaborator does not successfully develop any one of our products, we will need to find another collaborator to do so. The success of our search for a new collaborator will depend on our legal right to do so at the time and whether the product remains commercially viable. The success of our vaccine candidates depends in great part upon our and our collaborators' success in promoting them as superior to other treatment alternatives. We believe that vaccines like those under development by Celldex can be proven to offer disease prevention and treatment with notable advantages over drugs in terms of patient compliance and effectiveness. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to prove these advantages or that the advantages will be sufficient to support the successful commercialization of our vaccines. 29 Table of Contents We may face delays, difficulties or unanticipated costs in establishing sales, distribution and manufacturing capabilities for our commercially ready products. To date, we have chosen to retain, rather than license, all rights to some of our lead products, such as our APC Targeting Technology programs. If we proceed with this strategy, we will have full responsibility for commercialization of these products if and when they are approved for sale. We currently lack the marketing, sales and distribution capabilities that we will need to carry out this strategy. To market any of our products directly, we must develop a substantial marketing and sales force with technical expertise and a supporting distribution capability. We have little expertise in this area, and we may not succeed. We may find it necessary to enter into strategic partnerships on uncertain but potentially unfavorable terms to sell, market and distribute our products when they are approved for sale. Some of our products are difficult to manufacture, especially in large quantities, and we have not yet developed commercial scale manufacturing processes for any of our products. We do not currently plan to develop internal manufacturing capabilities to produce any of our products at commercial scale if they are approved for sale. To the extent that we choose to market and distribute these products ourselves, this strategy will make us dependent on other companies to produce our products in adequate quantities, in compliance with regulatory requirements, and at a competitive cost. We may not find third parties capable of meeting those manufacturing needs. Certain factors could negatively affect the demand for and sales and profitability of Rotarix®, which would have a material adverse affect on our revenues. Both the demand and ultimately the profitability of Rotarix® are components to our success. We have licensed a rotavirus strain to Glaxo for the purposes of Glaxo developing and commercializing their Rotarix® vaccine worldwide. Glaxo gained approval for Rotarix® in Mexico in July 2004, in the European Union in February 2006 and in the United States in April 2008. In May 2005, Celldex entered into an agreement whereby an affiliate of PRF purchased an interest in the net royalties we will receive on worldwide sales of Rotarix® (see Note 10 of our audited consolidated financial statements) and we retained 50% of Glaxo milestone payments, with the balance payable to PRF and CCH. In addition, Celldex retains substantial upside participation in the worldwide net royalty stream from Rotarix® if worldwide net royalties once PRF receives an agreed upon return on capital invested (2.45 times PRF's aggregate cash payments to Celldex of $60 million). The following are potential factors, among others, that may negatively affect the demand for Rotarix®: •Competitors in the pharmaceuticals, biotechnology and vaccines market have greater financial and management resources, and significantly more experience in bringing products to market, and may develop, manufacture and market products that are more effective or less expensive than Rotarix®; •Rotarix® could be replaced by a novel product and may become obsolete; •Glaxo may be unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon their proprietary rights related to Rotarix®; •Users may not accept such a recently approved product without years of proven history; and •We are dependent on Glaxo for the manufacturing, testing, acquisition of regulatory approvals, marketing, distribution and commercialization of Rotarix®. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on the sales of Rotarix® and our results of operations. 30 Table of Contents Other factors could affect the demand for and sales and profitability of Rotarix® and any other of our current or future products. In general, other factors that could affect the demand for and sales and profitability of our products include, but are not limited to: •The timing of regulatory approval, if any, of competitive products; •Our, Glaxo's, Pfizer's or any other of our partners' pricing decisions, as applicable, including a decision to increase or decrease the price of a product, and the pricing decisions of our competitors; •Government and third-party payer reimbursement and coverage decisions that affect the utilization of our products and competing products; •Negative safety or efficacy data from new clinical studies conducted either in the U.S. or internationally by any party could cause the sales of our products to decrease or a product to be recalled; •The degree of patent protection afforded our products by patents granted to or licensed by us and by the outcome of litigation involving our or any of our licensor's patents; •The outcome of litigation involving patents of other companies concerning our products or processes related to production and formulation of those products or uses of those products; •The increasing use and development of alternate therapies; •The rate of market penetration by competing products; and •The termination of, or change in, existing arrangements with our partners. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on Glaxo's sales of Rotarix® and on any other of our current or future products and results of operations. We may be unable to manage multiple late stage clinical trials for a variety of product candidates simultaneously. As our current clinical trials progress, we may need to manage multiple late stage clinical trials simultaneously in order to continue developing all of our current products. The management of late stage clinical trials is more complex and time consuming than early stage trials. Typically early stage trials involve several hundred patients in no more than 10-20 clinical sites. Late stage (Phase 3) trials may involve up to several thousand patients in up to several hundred clinical sites and may require facilities in several countries. Therefore, the project management required to supervise and control such an extensive program is substantially larger than early stage programs. As the need for these resources is not known until some months before the trials begin it is necessary to recruit large numbers of experienced and talented individuals very quickly. If the labor market does not allow this team to be recruited quickly the sponsor is faced with a decision to delay the program or to initiate it with inadequate management resources. This may result in recruitment of inappropriate patients, inadequate monitoring of clinical investigators and inappropriate handling of data or data analysis. Consequently it is possible that conclusions of efficacy or safety may not be acceptable to permit filing of a BLA or NDA for any one of the above reasons or a combination of several. We face the risk of product liability claims, which could exceed our insurance coverage, and produce recalls, each of which could deplete our cash resources. As a participant in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and vaccines industries, we are exposed to the risk of product liability claims alleging that use of our products or product candidates caused an 31 Table of Contents injury or harm. These claims can arise at any point in the development, testing, manufacture, marketing or sale of our products or product candidates and may be made directly by patients involved in clinical trials of our products, by consumers or healthcare providers or by individuals, organizations or companies selling our products. Product liability claims can be expensive to defend, even if the product or product candidate did not actually cause the alleged injury or harm. Insurance covering product liability claims becomes increasingly expensive as a product candidate moves through the development pipeline to commercialization. We have clinical trial liability insurance coverage in the amount of $5 million. However, there can be no assurance that such insurance coverage is or will continue to be adequate or available to us at a cost acceptable to us or at all. We may choose or find it necessary under our collaborative agreements to increase our insurance coverage in the future. We may not be able to secure greater or broader product liability insurance coverage on acceptable terms or at reasonable costs when needed. Any liability for damages resulting from a product liability claim could exceed the amount of our coverage, require us to pay a substantial monetary award from our own cash resources and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, a product recall, if required, could generate substantial negative publicity about our products and business and inhibit or prevent commercialization of other products and product candidates. In addition, some of our licensing and other agreements with third parties require or might require us to maintain product liability insurance. If we cannot maintain acceptable amounts of coverage on commercially reasonable terms in accordance with the terms set forth in these agreements, the corresponding agreements would be subject to termination, which could have a material adverse impact on our operations. Our reliance on third parties requires us to share our trade secrets, which increases the possibility that a competitor will discover them. Because we rely on third parties to develop our products, we must share trade secrets with them. We seek to protect our proprietary technology in part by entering into confidentiality agreements and, if applicable, material transfer agreements, collaborative research agreements, consulting agreements or other similar agreements with our collaborators, advisors, employees and consultants prior to beginning research or disclosing proprietary information. These agreements will typically restrict the ability of our collaborators, advisors, employees and consultants to publish data potentially relating to our trade secrets. Our academic collaborators typically have rights to publish data, provided that we are notified in advance and may delay publication for a specified time in order to secure our intellectual property rights arising from the collaboration. In other cases, publication rights are typically controlled exclusively by us, although in some cases we may share these rights with other parties. We also conduct joint research and development programs which may require us to share trade secrets under the terms of research and development partnership or similar agreements. Despite our efforts to protect our trade secrets, our competitors may discover our trade secrets, either through breach of these agreements, independent development or publication of information including our trade secrets in cases where we do not have proprietary or otherwise protected rights at the time of publication. A competitor's discovery of our trade secrets would impair our competitive position. We may not be able to successfully integrate newly-acquired technology with our existing technology or to modify our technologies to create new vaccines. As part of our acquisition of technology assets from entities such as 3M Company, we have acquired access to Resiquimod™ (a TLR 7/8 agonists) which may improve the immunogenicity of our vaccines. If we are able to integrate these licensed assets with our vaccine technologies, we believe these assets will give Celldex's vaccines a competitive advantage. However, if we are unable to successfully integrate licensed assets, or other technologies which we have acquired or may acquire in 32 Table of Contents the future, with our existing technologies and potential products currently under development, we may be unable to realize any benefit from our acquisition of these assets, or other technologies which we have acquired or may acquire in the future and may face the loss of our investment of financial resources and time in the integration process. We believe that Celldex's vaccine technology portfolio may offer opportunities to develop vaccines that treat a variety of oncology, inflammatory and infectious diseases by stimulating a patient's immune system against those disease organisms. If our vaccine technology portfolio cannot be used to create effective vaccines against a variety of disease organisms, we may lose all or portions of our investment in development efforts for new vaccine candidates. We license technology from other companies to develop products, and those companies could influence research and development or restrict our use of it. Companies that license technologies to us that we use in our research and development programs may require us to achieve milestones or devote minimum amounts of resources to develop products using those technologies. They may also require us to make significant royalty and milestone payments, including a percentage of any sublicensing income, as well as payments to reimburse them for patent costs. The number and variety of our research and development programs require us to establish priorities and to allocate available resources among competing programs. From time to time we may choose to slow down or cease our efforts on particular products. If in doing so we fail to fully perform our obligations under a license, the licensor can terminate the licenses or permit our competitors to use the technology. Moreover, we may lose our right to market and sell any products based on the licensed technology. We have many competitors in our field and they may develop technologies that make ours obsolete. Biotechnology, pharmaceuticals and therapeutics are rapidly evolving fields in which scientific and technological developments are expected to continue at a rapid pace. We have many competitors in the U.S. and abroad, including Alexion, Antigenics, Baxter, Crucell, Dendreon, Emergent BioSolutions, GlaxoSmithKline, Intercell, Sanofi-Aventis, Maxygen, Merck, NeoPharm, Novavax, Pfizer, Roche, Genitope, Northwest Biotherapeutics, Vical, Anadys, Idera, and Cell Genesys. Our success depends upon our ability to develop and maintain a competitive position in the product categories and technologies on which we focus. Many of our competitors have greater capabilities, experience and financial resources than we do. Competition is intense and is expected to increase as new products enter the market and new technologies become available. Our competitors may: •develop technologies and products that are more effective than ours, making ours obsolete or otherwise noncompetitive; •obtain regulatory approval for products more rapidly or effectively than us; and •obtain patent protection or other intellectual property rights that would block our ability to develop competitive products. We rely on patents, patent applications and other intellectual property protections to protect our technology and trade secrets; which are expensive and may not provide sufficient protection. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for technologies that we use. Biotechnology patents involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions and are highly uncertain. To date, there is no consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology patents, particularly in regard to patents for technologies for human uses like those we use in our business. We cannot predict whether the patents we seek will issue. If they do issue, a competitor may challenge them and limit their scope. Moreover, our patents may not afford effective 33 Table of Contents protection against competitors with similar technology. A successful challenge to any one of our patents could result in a third party's ability to use the technology covered by the patent. We also face the risk that others will infringe, avoid or circumvent our patents. Technology that we license from others is subject to similar risks and this could harm our ability to use that technology. If we, or a company that licenses technology to us, were not the first creator of an invention that we use, our use of the underlying product or technology will face restrictions, including elimination. If we must defend against suits brought against us or prosecute suits against others involving intellectual property rights, we will incur substantial costs. In addition to any potential liability for significant monetary damages, a decision against us may require us to obtain licenses to patents or other intellectual property rights of others on potentially unfavorable terms. If those licenses from third parties are necessary but we cannot acquire them, we would attempt to design around the relevant technology, which would cause higher development costs and delays, and may ultimately prove impracticable. Our business requires us to use hazardous materials, which increases our exposure to dangerous and costly accidents. Our research and development activities involve the use of hazardous chemicals, biological materials and radioactive compounds. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of hazardous materials comply with the standards prescribed by applicable laws and regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of an accident, an injured party will likely sue us for any resulting damages with potentially significant liability. The ongoing cost of complying with environmental laws and regulations is significant and may increase in the future. Health care reform and restrictions on reimbursement may limit our returns on potential products. Because Celldex's strategy ultimately depends on the commercial success of our products, we assume, among other things, that end users of our products will be able to pay for them. In the United States and other countries, in most cases, the volume of sales of products like those we are developing depends on the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors, including national health care agencies, private health insurance plans and health maintenance organizations. Third-party payors increasingly challenge the prices charged for medical products and services. Accordingly, if we succeed in bringing products to market, and reimbursement is not available or is insufficient, we could be prevented from successfully commercializing our potential products. The health care industry in the United States and in Europe is undergoing fundamental changes as a result of political, economic and regulatory influences. Reforms proposed from time to time include mandated basic health care benefits, controls on health care spending, the establishment of governmental controls over the cost of therapies, creation of large medical services and products purchasing groups and fundamental changes to the health care delivery system. We anticipate ongoing review and assessment of health care delivery systems and methods of payment in the United States and other countries. We cannot predict whether any particular reform initiatives will result or, if adopted, what their impact on us will be. However, we expect that adoption of any reform proposed will impair our ability to market products at acceptable prices. Risks Related to Our Capital Stock Our history of losses and uncertainty of future profitability make our common stock a highly speculative investment. We have had no commercial revenues to date from sales of our human therapeutic or vaccine products and cannot predict when we will. We have accumulated net operating losses of approximately 34 Table of Contents $121.1 million as of December 31, 2008. We expect to spend substantial funds to continue research and product testing of the following products we have in the pre-clinical and clinical testing stages of development: Product Use Stage CDX-110 Glioblastoma multiforme Clinical phase 2 CDX-1307 Colorectal, bladder, pancreas, ovarian and breast tumors Clinical phase 1 CDX-1401 Multiple solid tumors Pre-clinical CDX-1127 Immuno-modulation, multiple tumors Pre-clinical CDX-1135 (formerly TP10) Transplantation Renal disease Clinical phase 1/2 Pre-clinical CDX-1189 Renal disease Pre-clinical Ty800 vaccine Typhoid fever Clinical phase 2 CDX-2401 HIV infection Pre-clinical In anticipation of FDA approval of these products, we will need to make substantial investments to establish sales, marketing, quality control, and regulatory compliance capabilities. These investments will increase if and when any of these products receive FDA approval. We cannot predict how quickly our lead products will progress through the regulatory approval process. As a result, we may continue to lose money for several years. We cannot be certain that the company will achieve or sustain profitability in the future. Failure to achieve profitability could diminish our ability to sustain operations, pay dividends on our common stock, obtain additional required funds and make required payments on our present or future indebtedness. If we cannot sell capital stock to raise necessary funds, we may be forced to limit our research, development and testing programs. We will need to raise more capital from investors to advance our lead products through clinical testing and to fund our operations until we receive final FDA approval and our products begin to generate revenues for us. However, based on our history of losses and the on-going uncertainty of the U.S. capital markets, we may have difficulty raising sufficient capital on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. As of December 31, 2008, we had cash and cash equivalents of $44.3 million, which, at that time, we believed would support expected operations for more than 12 months. We continue to seek partnerships with pharmaceutical and biotech companies and with other organizations to support the clinical development of our programs, in addition to funded research grants. This kind of funding is at the discretion of other organizations and companies which have limited funds and many companies compete with us for those funds. As a result, we may not receive any research grants or funds from collaborators. If we are unable to raise the necessary funds, we may have to delay or discontinue the clinical development of programs, license out programs earlier than expected, raise funds at significant discount or on other unfavorable terms, if at all, or evaluate a sale of all or part of our business. Until the Company begins generating revenue, it may seek funding through the sale of equity, or securities convertible into equity, and further dilution to the then existing stockholders may result. If the Company raises additional capital through the incurrence of debt, its business may be affected by the amount of leverage it incurs, and its borrowings may subject it to restrictive covenants. 35 Table of Contents Our share price has been and could remain volatile. The market price of our common stock has historically experienced and may continue to experience significant volatility. From January 2008 through December 2008, the market price of our common stock has fluctuated from a high of $19.79 per share in the second quarter of 2008, to a low of $4.24 per share in the fourth quarter of 2008. Our progress in developing and commercializing our products, the impact of government regulations on our products and industry, the potential sale of a large volume of our common stock by selling stockholders, our quarterly operating results, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets and other developments affecting us or our competitors could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially with substantial market losses occurring over the past year. In addition, in recent years, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has affected the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance and may adversely affect the price of our common stock. In addition, we could be subject to a securities class action litigation as a result of volatility in the price of our stock, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of management's attention and resources and could harm our stock price, business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. If our principal stockholders sell shares of common stock in large volumes, the trading price of our common stock could suffer. If our principal stockholders sell a substantial number of shares of common stock, especially if those sales are made during a short period of time, those sales could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital. As of February 20, 2009, Medarex, Inc. owned approximately 31.4% of our outstanding common stock, Apax WW Nominees Ltd. owned approximately 8.8%, and Pfizer Vaccines owned approximately 4.9%. Our officers and directors, and their affiliates, beneficially owned approximately 6.86% of our common stock as of February 20, 2009. Of our largest stockholders, only Medarex is subject to a "lock-up" agreement pursuant to which it has agreed not to sell shares of common stock, which, unless extended, expires on March 7, 2009. There can be no assurances that the Medarex lock-up will be extended. Our principal stockholders, officers and directors own a large percentage of our voting stock and could exert significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval. As of February 20, 2009, Medarex, Inc., Apax WW Nominees Ltd., Pfizer Vaccines and our officers and directors, together beneficially owned approximately 52% of our common stock. Accordingly, these stockholders will be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combinations. This concentration could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the company. The combined company's ability to use the net operating loss carryforwards of the Company and its subsidiaries will be subject to limitation and, under certain circumstances, may be eliminated. Generally, a change of more than 50% in the ownership of a corporation's stock, by value, over a three-year period constitutes an ownership change under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. In general, Section 382 imposes an annual limitation on a corporation's ability to use its net operating losses from taxable years or periods ending on or before the date of an ownership change to offset U.S. federal taxable income in any post-change year. The Company and its subsidiaries have experienced an ownership change as a result of the Merger, in which case the combined company may be subject to the limitation under Section 382 with respect to pre-change net operating losses of the Company and its subsidiaries. Section 382 imposes significant limitations of the use of net operating loss carryforwards. 36 Table of Contents Moreover, if a corporation experiences an ownership change and does not satisfy the requirement to continue the business enterprise of the corporation under Section 382(c)(1) (which generally requires that the corporation continue its historic business or use a significant portion of its historic business assets in a business for the two-year period beginning on the date of the ownership change), it cannot, subject to certain exceptions, use any net operating loss from a pre-change period to offset taxable income in post-change years. As a result of the rules described above, the extent (if any) to which the combined company will be able to utilize the net operating losses from any pre-change period to offset taxable income (and thus reduce tax liability) for post-change periods is uncertain. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 