Item 1A. RISK FACTORS You should consider carefully these risk factors together with all of the information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report in addition to our financial statements and the notes to our financial statements. This section includes forward-looking statements. The following is a discussion of the risk factors that we believe are material to us at this time. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones facing us and there may be additional matters that we are unaware of or that we currently consider immaterial. All of these could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Risks Related to our Business We expect to incur future losses and we may never become profitable. We have incurred operating losses of $58.1 million, $43.4 million and $6.5 million during 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and expect to incur an operating loss in 2013. We believe that operating losses will continue in and beyond 2013 because we are planning to incur significant costs associated with the clinical development and manufacturing of commercial supply of rindopepimut and CDX-011 to prepare for the potential launch of rindopepimut and CDX-011. In addition, we are planning to incur significant costs in the clinical development of CDX-1135, CDX-1127, CDX-301 and CDX-1401. Our net losses have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on, among other things, our stockholders' equity, total assets and working capital. We expect that losses will fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year, and that such fluctuations may be substantial. We cannot predict when we will become profitable, if at all. Our long term success depends heavily on our ability to fund and complete research and development activities for, and to commercialize, our lead drug candidates, rindopepimut and CDX-011. Our current plans are to retain the rights to develop and commercialize rindopepimut in North America. We may explore potential development and commercialization collaborations for any of our programs where appropriate, which may include opportunities to commercialize rindopepimut outside of North America. Therefore, we must allocate a significant portion of our time, personnel and financial resources to the development of rindopepimut and CDX-011. We initiated ACT IV, our pivotal Phase 3 clinical trial of rindopepimut, in December 2011. We expect to complete patient accrual by the end of 2013 and anticipate receiving data 18 to 24 months after completing accrual. We anticipate ACT IV to cost over $60 million during its duration. In December 2012, we had our end of Phase 2b meeting with the FDA for our CDX-011 program. Based on this meeting, we intend to initiate a randomized study of CDX-011 suitable for accelerated approval in patients with triple negative breast cancer that also over-express GPNMB in the second half of 2013. Our management team lacks significant experience in completing Phase 3 clinical trials and bringing a drug through commercialization. If we face delays, difficulties or unanticipated costs in completing the development of rindopepimut or CDX-011, we will need substantial additional financing. Further, even if we complete the development of rindopepimut or CDX-011 and gain marketing approvals from the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities in a timely manner, we cannot be sure that rindopepimut or CDX-011 will be commercially successful in the pharmaceutical market. If the results of clinical trials, the anticipated or actual timing of marketing approvals, or the market acceptance of rindopepimut or CDX-011, if approved, do not meet the expectations of investors or public market analysts, the market price of our common stock would likely decline. 21 Table of Contents We will need additional capital to fund our operations, including the development, manufacture and potential commercialization of our drug candidates. If we do not have or cannot raise additional capital when needed, we will be unable to develop and ultimately commercialize our drug candidates successfully. We expect to incur significant costs as we develop our drug candidates. In particular, the continuing development and commercialization of rindopepimut and CDX-011 through commercial launch requires additional capital beyond our current resources. As of December 31, 2012, we had cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of $84.0 million. We raised an aggregate of $114 million in net proceeds from issuances of our common stock in January and February 2013. We may take further steps to raise additional capital to fund our long-term liquidity needs. Our capital raising activities may include, but may not be limited to, one or more of the following: •licensing of drug candidates with existing or new collaborative partners; •possible business combinations; •issuance of debt; or •issuance of common stock or other securities via private placements or public offerings. While we may continue to seek capital through a number of means, there can be no assurance that additional financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all, and our negotiating position in capital-raising efforts may worsen as existing resources are used. There is also no assurance that we will be able to enter into further collaborative relationships. Additional equity financing may be dilutive to our stockholders; debt financing, if available, may involve significant cash payment obligations and covenants that restrict our ability to operate as a business; and licensing or strategic collaborations may result in royalties or other terms which reduce our economic potential from products under development. If we are unable to raise the funds necessary to meet our long-term liquidity needs, we may have to delay or discontinue the development of one or more programs, discontinue or delay on-going or anticipated clinical trials, license out programs earlier than expected, raise funds at significant discount or on other unfavorable terms, if at all, or sell all or part of our business. In January 2011, we entered into a controlled equity offering sales agreement with Cantor Fitzgerald & Co. pursuant to which we could issue and sell up to 5,000,000 shares of our common stock from time to time through Cantor, acting as agent. During the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, we issued 4,425,000 and 575,000 shares of common stock under the Cantor agreement and raised $19.0 million and $2.2 million in net proceeds, after deducting commission and offering expenses, respectively. In September 2012, we amended the Cantor agreement to allow us to issue and sell additional shares of our common stock having an aggregate offering price of up to $44.0 million. Under the Cantor amendment, we will pay Cantor a fixed commission rate of 3.0% of the gross sales price per share of any common stock sold through Cantor. The Cantor amendment terminates upon ten day notice by either Cantor or us. During the year ended December 31, 2012, we issued 3,578,290 shares under the Cantor amendment and raised $21.1 million in net proceeds. During January 2013, we issued 2,433,608 shares under the Cantor amendment and raised $17.1 million in net proceeds. At February 28, 2013, we had $4.4 million remaining in aggregate offering price available under the Cantor amendment which may be sold upon the expiration of the 90-day lock-up with the underwriters of our underwritten public offering in February 2013. In February 2013, we issued 13,800,000 shares of our common stock in an underwritten public offering, including the underwriter's exercise of their full over-allotment option to purchase an additional 1,800,000 shares of common stock. The net proceeds to us were $97.0 million, after deducting underwriting fees and offering expenses. 22 Table of Contents We may or may not sell additional shares under the Cantor amendment, depending on the volume and price of our common stock, as well as our capital needs and potential alternative sources of capital. If we actively sell shares under the Cantor amendment, a significant number of shares of common stock could be issued in a short period of time, although we would attempt to structure the volume and price thresholds in a way that minimizes market impact. Notwithstanding these control efforts, these sales, or the perceived risk of dilution from potential sales of stock through the Cantor amendment, may depress our stock price, cause holders of our common stock to sell their shares, or encourage short selling by market participants, which could contribute to a decline in our stock price. A decline in our stock price might impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of common stock or other equity securities, and may cause our stockholders to lose part or all of the value of their investment in our stock. We may be unable to manage one Phase 3 clinical trial or multiple late stage clinical trials for a variety of product candidates simultaneously. As our current clinical trials progress, we may need to manage multiple late stage clinical trials simultaneously in order to continue developing all of our current products. Our management team does not have significant experience in completing late stage clinical trials and the management of late stage clinical trials is more complex and time consuming than early stage trials. Typically, early stage trials involve several hundred patients in no more than 10-30 clinical sites. Late stage (Phase 3) trials may involve up to several thousand patients in up to several hundred clinical sites and may require facilities in several countries. Therefore, the project management required to supervise and control such an extensive program is substantially larger than early stage programs. As the need for these resources is not known until some months before the trials begin, it is necessary to recruit large numbers of experienced and talented individuals very quickly. If the labor market does not allow this team to be recruited quickly, the sponsor is faced with a decision to delay the program or to initiate it with inadequate management resources. This may result in recruitment of inappropriate patients, inadequate monitoring of clinical investigators and inappropriate handling of data or data analysis. Consequently it is possible that conclusions of efficacy or safety may not be acceptable to permit filing of a BLA or NDA for any one of the above reasons or a combination of several. We rely on third parties to plan, conduct and monitor our clinical tests, and their failure to perform as required would interfere with our product development. We rely on third parties to conduct a significant portion of our clinical development activities. These activities include clinical patient recruitment and observation, clinical trial monitoring, clinical data management and analysis, safety monitoring and project management. We conduct project management and medical and safety monitoring in-house for some of our programs and rely on third parties for the remainder of our clinical development activities. The significant third parties who we currently rely on for clinical development activities include Novella Clinical Inc. for our ACT IV study. If Novella is unable to perform in a quality and timely manner, and at a feasible cost, ACT IV will face delays. Further, if any of these third parties fails to perform as we expect or if their work fails to meet regulatory standards, our testing could be delayed, cancelled or rendered ineffective. We may enter into collaboration agreements for the licensing, development and ultimate commercialization of some of our drug candidates including, where appropriate, for our lead drug candidates. In such cases, we will depend greatly on our third party collaborators to license, develop and commercialize such drug candidates, and they may not meet our expectations. Our current plans are to retain the rights to develop and commercialize rindopepimut in North America. We may explore potential development and commercialization collaborations for any of our 23 Table of Contents programs where appropriate, which may include opportunities to commercialize rindopepimut outside of North America. The process of identifying collaborators and negotiating collaboration agreements for the licensing, development and ultimate commercialization of some of our drug candidates may cause delays and increased costs. We may not be able to enter into collaboration agreements on terms favorable to us. Furthermore some of those agreements may give substantial responsibility over our drug candidates to the collaborator. Some collaborators may be unable or unwilling to devote sufficient resources to develop our drug candidates as their agreements require. They often face business risks similar to ours, and this could interfere with their efforts. Also, collaborators may choose to devote their resources to products that compete with ours. If a collaborator does not successfully develop any one of our products, we will need to find another collaborator to do so. The success of our search for a new collaborator will depend on our legal right to do so at the time and whether the product remains commercially viable. If we enter into collaboration agreements for one or more of our lead drug candidates, the success of such drug candidates will depend in great part upon our and our collaborators' success in promoting them as superior to other treatment alternatives. We believe that our drug candidates can be proven to offer disease prevention and treatment with notable advantages over drugs in terms of patient compliance and effectiveness. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to prove these advantages or that the advantages will be sufficient to support the successful commercialization of our drug candidates. We may face delays, difficulties or unanticipated costs in establishing sales, distribution and manufacturing capabilities for our commercially ready products. Our current plan is to retain, rather than license to a third party, all rights to rindopepimut in North America. As a result, we will have full responsibility for commercialization of this product if and when it is approved for sale. We currently lack the marketing, sales and distribution capabilities that we will need to carry out this strategy. To market any of our products directly, we must develop a substantial marketing and sales force with technical expertise and a supporting distribution capability. We have little expertise in this area, and we may not succeed. We may find it necessary to enter into strategic partnerships on uncertain but potentially unfavorable terms to sell, market and distribute our products when they are approved for sale. Some of our products are difficult to manufacture, especially in large quantities, and we have not yet developed commercial scale manufacturing processes for any of our products. We do not currently plan to develop internal manufacturing capabilities to produce any of our products at commercial scale if they are approved for sale. To the extent that we choose to market and distribute these products ourselves, this strategy will make us dependent on other companies to produce our products in adequate quantities, in compliance with regulatory requirements, and at a competitive cost. We may not find third parties capable of meeting those manufacturing needs. Our drug candidates are subject to extensive regulatory scrutiny. All of our drug candidates are at various stages of development and commercialization and our activities and drug candidates are significantly regulated by a number of governmental entities, including the FDA in the United States and by comparable authorities in other countries. These entities regulate, among other things, the manufacture, testing, safety, effectiveness, labeling, documentation, advertising and sale of drugs and drug candidates. We or our partners must obtain regulatory approval for a drug candidate in all of these areas before we can commercialize the drug candidate. Product development within this regulatory framework takes a number of years and involves the expenditure of substantial resources. This process typically requires extensive preclinical and clinical testing, which may take longer or cost more than we anticipate, and may prove unsuccessful due to numerous factors. Many drug candidates that initially appear promising ultimately do not reach the 24 Table of Contents market because they are found to be unsafe or ineffective when tested. Companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after obtaining promising results in earlier trials. Our inability to commercialize a drug candidate would impair our ability to earn future revenues. If our products do not pass required tests for safety and effectiveness, we will not be able to derive commercial revenue from them. In order to succeed, we will need to derive commercial revenue from the products we have under development. The FDA has not approved our rindopepimut or CDX-011 drug candidates or any of our other products for sale to date. Our drug candidates are in various stages of preclinical and clinical testing. Preclinical tests are performed at an early stage of a product's development and provide information about a product's safety and effectiveness on laboratory animals. Preclinical tests can last years. If a product passes its preclinical tests satisfactorily, and we determine that further development is warranted, we would file an IND application for the product with the FDA, and if the FDA gives its approval we would begin Phase 1 clinical tests. Phase 1 testing generally lasts between 6 and 24 months. If Phase 1 test results are satisfactory and the FDA gives its approval, we can begin Phase 2 clinical tests. Phase 2 testing generally lasts between 6 and 36 months. If Phase 2 test results are satisfactory and the FDA gives its approval, we can begin Phase 3 pivotal studies. Phase 3 studies generally last between 12 and 48 months. Once clinical testing is completed and a new drug application is filed with the FDA, it may take more than a year to receive FDA approval. In all cases we must show that a pharmaceutical product is both safe and effective before the FDA, or drug approval agencies of other countries where we intend to sell the product, will approve it for sale. Our research and testing programs must comply with drug approval requirements both in the United States and in other countries, since we are developing our lead products with the intention to, or could later decide to, commercialize them both in the U.S. and abroad. A product may fail for safety or effectiveness at any stage of the testing process. A major risk we face is the possibility that none of our products under development will come through the testing process to final approval for sale, with the result that we cannot derive any commercial revenue from them after investing significant amounts of capital in multiple stages of preclinical and clinical testing. Product testing is critical to the success of our products but subject to delay or cancellation if we have difficulty enrolling patients. As our portfolio of potential products moves from preclinical testing to clinical testing, and then through progressively larger and more complex clinical trials, we will need to enroll an increasing number of patients with the appropriate characteristics. At times we have experienced difficulty enrolling patients and we may experience more difficulty as the scale of our clinical testing program increases. The factors that affect our ability to enroll patients are largely uncontrollable and include principally the following: •the nature of the clinical test; •the size of the patient population; •patients' willingness to receive a placebo or less effective treatment on the control arm of a clinical study; •the distance between patients and clinical test sites; and •the eligibility criteria for the trial. If we cannot enroll patients as needed, our costs may increase or it could force us to delay or terminate testing for a product. 25 Table of Contents We may have delays in completing our clinical trials and we may not complete them at all. We have not completed the clinical trials necessary to obtain FDA approval to market rindopepimut, CDX-011 or any of our other products in development. We initiated a Phase 3 study of rindopepimut in December 2011 but we have not initiated Phase 3 studies for CDX-011 or any of our other products in development. Our management lacks significant experience in completing Phase 3 trials and bringing a drug through commercialization. Our rindopepimut Phase 3 trial, CDX-011 late-stage studies and planned clinical trials for other products in development may be delayed or terminated as a result of many factors, including the following: •difficulty in enrolling patients in our clinical trials; •patients failing to complete clinical trials due to dissatisfaction with the treatment, side effects or other reasons; •failure by regulators to authorize us to commence a clinical trial; •suspension or termination by regulators of clinical research for many reasons, including concerns about patient safety or failure of our contract manufacturers to comply with cGMP requirements; •delays or failure of the FDA to remove the clinical hold on our CDX-011 studies; •treatment candidates demonstrating a lack of efficacy during clinical trials; •inability to continue to fund clinical trials or to find a partner to fund the clinical trials; •competition with ongoing clinical trials and scheduling conflicts with participating clinicians; and •delays in completing data collection and analysis for clinical trials. Any delay or failure to complete clinical trials and obtain FDA approval for our drug candidates could have a material adverse effect on our cost to develop and commercialize, and our ability to generate revenue from, a particular drug candidate. Any delay in obtaining regulatory approval would have an adverse impact on our ability to earn future revenues. It is possible that none of the drug candidates that we develop will obtain the regulatory approvals necessary for us to begin commercializing them. The time required to obtain FDA and other approvals is unpredictable but often can take years following the commencement of clinical trials, depending upon the nature of the drug candidate. Any analysis we perform of data from clinical activities is subject to confirmation and interpretation by regulatory authorities, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Any delay or failure in obtaining required approvals could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenues from the particular drug candidate including, but not limited to, loss of patent term during the approval period. Furthermore, if we, or our partners, do not reach the market with our products before our competitors offer products for the same or similar uses, or if we, or our partners, are not effective in marketing our products, our revenues from product sales, if any, will be reduced. We face intense competition in our development activities. We face competition from many companies in the United States and abroad, including a number of large pharmaceutical companies, firms specialized in the development and production of vaccines, adjuvants and vaccine and immunotherapeutic delivery systems and major universities and research institutions. The competitors for which we are aware have initiated a Phase 3 study or have obtained marketing approval for a potentially competitive drug include Alexion, Agenus, Baxter, BMS, Dendreon, Eli Lilly, GlaxoSmithKline, ImmunoGen, Merck, Pfizer, Roche, Sanofi-Aventis, Seattle Genetics, and Takeda. 26 Table of Contents Most of our competitors have substantially greater resources, more extensive experience in conducting preclinical studies and clinical testing and obtaining regulatory approvals for their products, greater operating experience, greater research and development and marketing capabilities and greater production capabilities than those of ours. These companies might succeed in obtaining regulatory approval for competitive products more rapidly than we can for our products, especially if we experience any delay in obtaining required regulatory approvals. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements would adversely impact our operations. Even after receiving regulatory approval, our products would be subject to extensive regulatory requirements, and our failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements will adversely impact our operations. In the United States, the FDA requires that the manufacturing facility that produces a product meet specified standards, undergo an inspection and obtain an establishment license prior to commercial marketing. Subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with a product or its manufacturing process may result in restrictions on the product or the manufacturer, including withdrawal of the product from the market. Failure to comply with the applicable regulatory requirements can result in fines, suspensions of regulatory approvals, product recalls, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. We depend greatly on the intellectual capabilities and experience of our key executives and scientists and the loss of any of them could affect our ability to develop our products. The loss of Anthony S. Marucci, our President and Chief Executive Officer, or other key members of our staff, including Avery W. Catlin, our Chief Financial Officer, Dr. Thomas Davis, our Chief Medical Officer, Dr. Tibor Keler, our Chief Scientific Officer or Dr. Ronald Pepin, our Chief Business Officer, could harm us. We entered into employment agreements with Messrs. Marucci, Catlin, Davis, Keler and Pepin although an employment agreement as a practical matter does not guarantee retention of an employee. We also depend on our scientific and clinical collaborators and advisors, all of whom have outside commitments that may limit their availability to us. In addition, we believe that our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled scientific, managerial and marketing personnel, particularly as we expand our activities in clinical trials, the regulatory approval process and sales and manufacturing. We routinely enter into consulting agreements with our scientific and clinical collaborators and advisors, key opinion leaders and heads of academic departments in the ordinary course of our business. We also enter into contractual agreements with physicians and institutions who recruit patients into our clinical trials on our behalf in the ordinary course of our business. Notwithstanding these arrangements, we face significant competition for this type of personnel from other companies, research and academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. We cannot predict our success in hiring or retaining the personnel we require for continued growth. We rely on contract manufacturers over whom we have limited control. Should the cost, delivery and quality of clinical and commercial grade materials supplied by contract manufacturers vary to our disadvantage, our business operations could suffer significant harm. We have limited experience in large scale manufacturing at our Fall River facility. We have manufactured clinical materials of CDX-1127, CDX-1135, CDX-1401 and CDX-301 in our Fall River facility for our current and planned Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical trials. We have initiated the manufacturing of the next lot of CDX-011 for which we manufactured the CR011 antibody in our Fall River facility. We rely on sourcing from third-party manufacturers for suitable quantities of our late-stage clinical and commercial grade materials and certain filling and packaging essential to preclinical and clinical studies currently underway and for planned clinical trials in addition to those currently being conducted by third parties or us. 27 Table of Contents We plan to establish a relationship with a contract manufacturer to support our clinical trials and for the commercial manufacturing of rindopepimut and CDX-011 in 2013. The inability to have suitable quality and quantities of these essential materials produced in a timely manner would result in significant delays in the clinical development and commercialization of products, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also rely on collaborators and contract manufacturers to manufacture proposed products in both clinical and commercial quantities in the future. Our leading drug candidates require specialized manufacturing capabilities and processes. We may face difficulty in securing commitments from U.S. and foreign contract manufacturers as these manufacturers could be unwilling or unable to accommodate our needs. Relying on foreign manufacturers involves peculiar and increased risks, including the risk relating to the difficulty foreign manufacturers may face in complying with cGMP requirements as a result of language barriers, lack of familiarity with cGMP or the FDA regulatory process or other causes, economic or political instability in or affecting the home countries of our foreign manufacturers, shipping delays, potential changes in foreign regulatory laws governing the sales of our product supplies, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and the imposition or application of trade restrictions. There can be no assurances that we will be able to enter into long-term arrangements with third party manufacturers on acceptable terms, or at all. Further, contract manufacturers must also be able to meet our timetable and requirements, and must operate in compliance with cGMP; failure to do so could result in, among other things, the disruption of product supplies. As noted above, non-U.S. contract manufacturers may face special challenges in complying with cGMP requirements, and although we are not currently dependent on non-U.S. collaborators or contract manufacturers, we may choose or be required to rely on non-U.S. sources in the future as we seek to develop stable supplies of increasing quantities of materials for ongoing clinical trials of larger scale. Our dependence upon third parties for the manufacture of our products may adversely affect our profit margins and our ability to develop and deliver products on a timely and competitive basis. The significant third parties who we currently rely on for sourcing of suitable quantities of some of our clinical and commercial grade materials include Biosyn, Bayer and Sanofi for our rindopepimut drug candidate. If we or our third-party manufacturers are unable to produce drug material in suitable quantities of appropriate quality, in a timely manner, and at a feasible cost, our clinical tests will face delays. Other factors could affect the demand for and sales of any products that we may commercialize in the future. In general, other factors that could affect the demand for and sales and profitability of our products include, but are not limited to: •the timing of regulatory approval, if any, of competitive products; •our or any other of our partners' pricing decisions, as applicable, including a decision to increase or decrease the price of a product, and the pricing decisions of our competitors; •government and third-party payer reimbursement and coverage decisions that affect the utilization of our products and competing products; •negative safety or efficacy data from new clinical studies conducted either in the U.S. or internationally by any party could cause the sales of our products to decrease or a product to be recalled; •the degree of patent protection afforded our products by patents granted to or licensed by us and by the outcome of litigation involving our or any of our licensor's patents; 28 Table of Contents •the outcome of litigation involving patents of other companies concerning our products or processes related to production and formulation of those products or uses of those products; •the increasing use and development of alternate therapies; •the rate of market penetration by competing products; and •the termination of, or change in, existing arrangements with our partners. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on the sales of any products that we may commercialize in the future. We face the risk of product liability claims, which could exceed our insurance coverage, and produce recalls, each of which could deplete our cash resources. As a participant in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, we are exposed to the risk of product liability claims alleging that use of our drug candidates caused an injury or harm. These claims can arise at any point in the development, testing, manufacture, marketing or sale of our drug candidates and may be made directly by patients involved in clinical trials of our products, by consumers or healthcare providers or by individuals, organizations or companies selling our products. Product liability claims can be expensive to defend, even if the drug or drug candidate did not actually cause the alleged injury or harm. Insurance covering product liability claims becomes increasingly expensive as a drug candidate moves through the development pipeline to commercialization. Under our license agreements, we are required to maintain clinical trial liability insurance coverage up to $14 million. However, there can be no assurance that such insurance coverage is or will continue to be adequate or available to us at a cost acceptable to us or at all. We may choose or find it necessary under our collaborative agreements to increase our insurance coverage in the future. We may not be able to secure greater or broader product liability insurance coverage on acceptable terms or at reasonable costs when needed. Any liability for damages resulting from a product liability claim could exceed the amount of our coverage, require us to pay a substantial monetary award from our own cash resources and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, a product recall, if required, could generate substantial negative publicity about our products and business and inhibit or prevent commercialization of other products and drug candidates. In addition, some of our licensing and other agreements with third parties require or might require us to maintain product liability insurance. If we cannot maintain acceptable amounts of coverage on commercially reasonable terms in accordance with the terms set forth in these agreements, the corresponding agreements would be subject to termination, which could have a material adverse impact on our operations. Our reliance on third parties requires us to share our trade secrets, which increases the possibility that a competitor will discover them. Because we rely on third parties to develop our products, we must share trade secrets with them. We seek to protect our proprietary technology in part by entering into confidentiality agreements and, if applicable, material transfer agreements, collaborative research agreements, consulting agreements or other similar agreements with our collaborators, advisors, employees and consultants prior to beginning research or disclosing proprietary information. These agreements typically restrict the ability of our collaborators, advisors, employees and consultants to publish data potentially relating to our trade secrets. Our academic collaborators typically have rights to publish data, provided that we are notified in advance and may delay publication for a specified time in order to secure our intellectual property rights arising from the collaboration. In other cases, publication rights are controlled exclusively by us, although in some cases we may share these rights with other parties. We also conduct joint research 29 Table of Contents and development programs which may require us to share trade secrets under the terms of research and development partnership or similar agreements. Despite our efforts to protect our trade secrets, our competitors may discover our trade secrets, either through breach of these agreements, independent development or publication of information including our trade secrets in cases where we do not have proprietary or otherwise protected rights at the time of publication. A competitor's discovery of our trade secrets would impair our competitive position. We may not be able to successfully integrate acquired technology with our existing technology or to modify our technologies to create new drug candidates. As part of our acquisition of technology assets from entities such as Amgen, we have acquired access to Flt3L, which may improve the immunogenicity of our drug candidates. If we are able to integrate these licensed assets with our drug candidates, we believe these assets will give our drug candidates a competitive advantage. However, if we are unable to successfully integrate licensed assets, or other technologies which we have acquired or may acquire in the future, with our existing technologies and potential products currently under development, we may be unable to realize any benefit from our acquisition of these assets, or other technologies which we have acquired or may acquire in the future and may face the loss of our investment of financial resources and time in the integration process. We believe that our technology may offer opportunities to develop drug candidates that treat a variety of oncology, inflammatory and infectious diseases by stimulating a patient's immune system against those disease organisms. If our technology cannot be used to create effective drug candidates against a variety of disease organisms, we may lose all or portions of our investment in development efforts for new drug candidates. We license technology from other companies to develop products, and those companies could influence research and development or restrict our use of it. Companies that license technologies to us that we use in our research and development programs may require us to achieve milestones or devote minimum amounts of resources to develop products using those technologies. They may also require us to make significant royalty and milestone payments, including a percentage of any sublicensing income, as well as payments to reimburse them for patent costs. The number and variety of our research and development programs require us to establish priorities and to allocate available resources among competing programs. From time to time we may choose to slow down or cease our efforts on particular products. If in doing so we fail to fully perform our obligations under a license, the licensor can terminate the licenses or permit our competitors to use the technology. Moreover, we may lose our right to market and sell any products based on the licensed technology. 30 Table of Contents We have many competitors in our field and they may develop technologies that make ours obsolete. Biotechnology, pharmaceuticals and therapeutics are rapidly evolving fields in which scientific and technological developments are expected to continue at a rapid pace. We have many competitors in the U.S. and abroad. The competitors for which we are aware have initiated a Phase 3 study or have obtained marketing approval for a potentially competitive drug include Alexion, Agenus, Baxter, BMS, Dendreon, Eli Lilly, GlaxoSmithKline, ImmunoGen, Merck, Pfizer, Roche, Sanofi-Aventis, Seattle Genetics, and Takeda. Our success depends upon our ability to develop and maintain a competitive position in the product categories and technologies on which we focus. Many of our competitors have greater capabilities, experience and financial resources than we do. Competition is intense and is expected to increase as new products enter the market and new technologies become available. Our competitors may: •develop technologies and products that are more effective than ours, making ours obsolete or otherwise noncompetitive; •obtain regulatory approval for products more rapidly or effectively than us; and •obtain patent protection or other intellectual property rights that would block our ability to develop competitive products. We rely on patents, patent applications and other intellectual property protections to protect our technology and trade secrets; which are expensive and may not provide sufficient protection. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for technologies that we use. Biotechnology patents involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions and are highly uncertain. To date, there is no consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology patents, particularly in regard to patents for technologies for human uses like those we use in our business. We cannot predict whether the patents we seek will issue. If they do issue, a competitor may challenge them and limit their scope. Moreover, our patents may not afford effective protection against competitors with similar technology. A successful challenge to any one of our patents could result in a third party's ability to use the technology covered by the patent. We also face the risk that others will infringe, avoid or circumvent our patents. Technology that we license from others is subject to similar risks and this could harm our ability to use that technology. If we, or a company that licenses technology to us, were not the first creator of an invention that we use, our use of the underlying product or technology will face restrictions, including elimination. If we must defend against suits brought against us or prosecute suits against others involving intellectual property rights, we will incur substantial costs. In addition to any potential liability for significant monetary damages, a decision against us may require us to obtain licenses to patents or other intellectual property rights of others on potentially unfavorable terms. If those licenses from third parties are necessary but we cannot acquire them, we would attempt to design around the relevant technology, which would cause higher development costs and delays, and may ultimately prove impracticable. Our business requires us to use hazardous materials, which increases our exposure to dangerous and costly accidents. Our research and development activities involve the use of hazardous chemicals, biological materials and radioactive compounds. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of hazardous materials comply with the standards prescribed by applicable laws and regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of an accident, an injured party will likely sue us for any resulting damages with potentially significant liability. The ongoing cost of complying with environmental laws and regulations is significant and may increase in the future. 31 Table of Contents Health care reform and restrictions on reimbursement may limit our returns on potential products. Because our strategy ultimately depends on the commercial success of our products, we assume, among other things, that end users of our products will be able to pay for them. In the United States and other countries, in most cases, the volume of sales of products like those we are developing depends on the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors, including national health care agencies, private health insurance plans and health maintenance organizations. Third-party payors increasingly challenge the prices charged for medical products and services. Accordingly, if we succeed in bringing products to market, and reimbursement is not available or is insufficient, we could be prevented from successfully commercializing our potential products. The health care industry in the United States and in Europe is undergoing fundamental changes as a result of political, economic and regulatory influences. Reforms proposed from time to time include mandated basic health care benefits, controls on health care spending, the establishment of governmental controls over the cost of therapies, creation of large medical services and products purchasing groups and fundamental changes to the health care delivery system. We anticipate ongoing review and assessment of health care delivery systems and methods of payment in the United States and other countries. We cannot predict whether any particular reform initiatives will result or, if adopted, what their impact on us will be. However, we expect that adoption of any reform proposed will impair our ability to market products at acceptable prices and that uncertainty concerning future government regulation of consumer healthcare purchasing and insurance may result in difficulties for drug development companies, like us, in raising capital. Changes in laws affecting the health care industry could adversely affect our business. In the U.S., there have been numerous proposals considered at the federal and state levels for comprehensive reforms of health care and its cost, and it is likely that federal and state legislatures and health agencies will continue to focus on health care reform in the future. Congress has considered legislation to reform the U.S. health care system by expanding health insurance coverage, reducing health care costs and making other changes. While health care reform may increase the number of patients who have insurance coverage for our products, it may also include cost containment measures that adversely affect reimbursement for our products. Congress has also considered legislation to change the Medicare reimbursement system for outpatient drugs, increase the amount of rebates that manufacturers pay for coverage of their drugs by Medicaid programs and facilitate the importation of lower-cost prescription drugs that are marketed outside the U.S. Some states are also considering legislation that would control the prices of drugs, and state Medicaid programs are increasingly requesting manufacturers to pay supplemental rebates and requiring prior authorization by the state program for use of any drug for which supplemental rebates are not being paid. Managed care organizations continue to seek price discounts and, in some cases, to impose restrictions on the coverage of particular drugs. Government efforts to reduce Medicaid expenses may lead to increased use of managed care organizations by Medicaid programs. This may result in managed care organizations influencing prescription decisions for a larger segment of the population and a corresponding constraint on prices and reimbursement for our products. We and our collaborators and partners operate in a highly regulated industry. As a result, governmental actions may adversely affect our business, operations or financial condition, including: •new laws, regulations or judicial decisions, or new interpretations of existing laws, regulations or decisions, related to health care availability, method of delivery and payment for health care products and services; •changes in the FDA and foreign regulatory approval processes that may delay or prevent the approval of new products and result in lost market opportunity; 32 Table of Contents •changes in FDA and foreign regulations that may require additional safety monitoring, labeling changes, restrictions on product distribution or use, or other measures after the introduction of our products to market, which could increase our costs of doing business, adversely affect the future permitted uses of approved products, or otherwise adversely affect the market for our products; •new laws, regulations and judicial decisions affecting pricing or marketing practices; and •changes in the tax laws relating to our operations. The enactment in the U.S. of health care reform, possible legislation which could ease the entry of competing follow-on biologics in the marketplace, new legislation or implementation of existing statutory provisions on importation of lower-cost competing drugs from other jurisdictions, and legislation on comparative effectiveness research are examples of previously enacted and possible future changes in laws that could adversely affect our business. In addition, the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 included new authorization for the FDA to require post-market safety monitoring, along with an expanded clinical trials registry and clinical trials results database, and expanded authority for the FDA to impose civil monetary penalties on companies that fail to meet certain commitments. If physicians, patients and third-party payors do not accept any future drugs that we may develop, we may be unable to generate significant revenue, if any. Even if our drug candidates as well as any drug candidates that we may develop or acquire in the future obtain regulatory approval, they may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients and health care payors. Physicians may elect not to recommend these drugs for a variety of reasons including: •timing of market introduction of competitive drugs; •lower demonstrated clinical safety and efficacy compared to other drugs; •lack of cost-effectiveness; •lack of availability of reimbursement from third-party payors; •convenience and ease of administration; •prevalence and severity of adverse side effects; •other potential advantages of alternative treatment methods; and •ineffective marketing and distribution support. If any drugs that we develop fail to achieve market acceptance, we would not be able to generate sufficient revenue from product sales to maintain or grow our business. Risks Related to our Capital Stock Our history of losses and uncertainty of future profitability make our common stock a highly speculative investment. We have had no commercial revenue to date from sales of our drug candidiates and cannot predict when we will have commercial revenue from such sales. We had an accumulated deficit of $264.1 million as of December 31, 2012. We expect to spend substantial funds to continue the research and development testing of our products that we have in the preclinical and clinical testing stages of development that have not been partnered. 33 Table of Contents In anticipation of FDA approval of these products, we will need to make substantial investments to establish sales, marketing, quality control, and regulatory compliance capabilities. These investments will increase if and when any of these products receive FDA approval. We cannot predict how quickly our lead products will progress through the regulatory approval process. As a result, we may continue to lose money for several years. We cannot be certain that we will achieve or sustain profitability in the future. Failure to achieve profitability could diminish our ability to sustain operations, pay dividends on our common stock, obtain additional required funds and make required payments on our present or future indebtedness. Our share price has been and could remain volatile. The market price of our common stock has historically experienced and may continue to experience significant volatility. From January 2012 through December 2012, the market price of our common stock has fluctuated from a high of $7.20 per share in the fourth quarter of 2012, to a low of $2.65 per share in the first quarter of 2012. Our progress in developing and commercializing our products, the impact of government regulations on our products and industry, the potential sale of a large volume of our common stock by stockholders, our quarterly operating results, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets and other developments affecting us or our competitors could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially with significant market losses. If our stockholders sell a substantial number of shares of common stock, especially if those sales are made during a short period of time, those sales could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital. In addition, in recent years, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has affected the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance and may adversely affect the price of our common stock. In addition, we could be subject to a securities class action litigation as a result of volatility in the price of our stock, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of management's attention and resources and could harm our stock price, business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. The restrictive covenants contained in our credit agreement may limit our activities. On December 30, 2010, we entered into a Loan and Security Agreement (the "Loan Agreement") with MidCap Financial, LLC (MidCap) pursuant to which we borrowed $10 million (the "Term Loan") from MidCap. In March 2011, we amended the Loan Agreement and borrowed an additional $5 million from General Electric Capital Corporation (GECC) (collectively with MidCap, the "Lenders") to increase the amount owed under the Term Loan to $15 million. In March 2012, we amended the Loan Agreement to extend the maturity date from December 2013 to December 2014. Our obligations under the Term Loan are secured by a first priority lien upon and security interest in substantially all of our existing and after-acquired assets, excluding our intellectual property assets (the "Collateral"). Under the Term Loan, we are subject to specified affirmative covenants customary for loans of this type, including but not limited to the obligations to maintain good standing, provide various notices to the Lenders, deliver financial statements to the Lenders, maintain adequate insurance, promptly discharge all taxes, protect our intellectual property and protect the Collateral. We are also subject to certain negative covenants customary for loans of this type, including but not limited to prohibitions against certain mergers and consolidations, certain management and ownership changes constituting a "change of control," and the imposition of additional liens on Collateral or other of our assets, as well as prohibitions against additional indebtedness, certain dispositions of property, changes in our business, name or location, payment of dividends, prepayment of certain other indebtedness, certain investments or acquisitions, and certain transactions with affiliates, in each case subject to certain customary exceptions, including exceptions that allow us to enter into non-exclusive and/or 34 Table of Contents exclusive licenses and similar agreements providing for the use of our intellectual property in collaboration with third parties provided certain conditions are met. Failure to comply with the restrictive covenants in our Term Loan could accelerate the repayment of any debt outstanding under the Term Loan. Additionally, as a result of these restrictive covenants, we may be at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have greater operating and financing flexibility than we do. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards will be subject to limitation and, under certain circumstances, may be eliminated. Utilization of our net operating loss and research and development credit carryforwards may be subject to substantial annual limitation due to ownership change limitations that have occurred previously or that could occur in the future provided by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or Section 382, as well as similar state provisions. In general, an ownership change, as defined by Section 382, results from transactions increasing the ownership of certain shareholders or public groups in the stock of a corporation by more than 50 percentage points over a three-year period. In October 2007, June 2009 and in December 2009, we experienced a change in ownership as defined by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. Historically, we have raised capital through the issuance of capital stock on several occasions which, combined with shareholders' subsequent disposition of those shares, has resulted in three changes of control, as defined by Section 382. As a result of the ownership change in October 2007, utilization of our Federal net operating loss carryforwards is subject to an annual limitation. Any unused annual limitation may be carried over to later years, and the amount of the limitation may, under certain circumstances, be subject to adjustment if the fair value of the our net assets are determined to be below or in excess of the tax basis of such assets at the time of the ownership change, and such unrealized loss or gain is recognized during the five-year period after the ownership change. Subsequent ownership changes, as defined in Section 382, could further limit the amount of net operating loss carryforwards and research and development credits that can be utilized annually to offset future taxable income. We have not undertaken a study to assess whether an ownership change or multiple ownership changes has occurred for (i) AVANT or CuraGen prior to our acquisitions, (ii) the Company on the state level, (iii) the Company since October 2012, or (iv) research and development credits. If, based on such a study, we were to determine that there has been an ownership change at any time since its formation, utilization of net operating loss or tax credit carryforwards would be subject to an annual limitation under Section 382. Refer to Note 15, "Income Taxes," in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements for additional discussion on income taxes. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 35 Table of Contents 