Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to various risks, including those discussed below, which may affect the value of our common stock. Set forth below are certain risk factors which we believe to be relevant to an understanding of our business. This list should not be considered a comprehensive list of all potential risks and uncertainties. You should also refer to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes for the year ended December 31, 2008. 13 Table of Contents Significant risk factors include: Interest Rate Risk — Our earnings and profitability depend significantly on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. Since interest rates can fluctuate in response to general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, including the Federal Reserve Board, our asset-liability management strategy may not be able to prevent changes in interest rates from having a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Geographic Risk — We operate primarily in the Chicago market and a prolonged economic downturn in this market could have a negative impact on earnings. Credit Risk — Our loan customers may not repay their loans according to their terms and the collateral may be insufficient to repay the loan. Management makes various assumptions in determining the adequacy of the allowance for loan and lease losses and if those assumptions are incorrect, the result could have an adverse affect on our results of operations and financial condition. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for discussion of our allowance for loan and lease losses. Economic Risk — If the strength of the U.S. economy and the local economy continues to decline, this could result in deterioration in credit quality or reduced demand for credit with a resultant effect on the Company’s loan portfolio and allowance for loan and lease losses. Economic factors may cause increased delinquencies and loan charge-offs. A significant amount of the Company’s loans are secured by real estate. Economic factors have and may continue to cause deterioration to the value of real estate used by the Company to secure its loans. The resultant effect of these economic factors could result in increased provisions to the allowance for loan and lease losses that may materially affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Concentration Risk — In the Company’s loan portfolio there is a concentration of loans to the hotel industry and an overall concentration of loans secured by real estate. A general downturn in hotel occupancy rates could negatively impact borrowers’ ability to repay and consequently affect the Company’s earnings and its allowance for loan and lease losses. Regulatory Risk — We are subject to extensive federal and state legislation and supervision which govern nearly every aspect of our business. The burden of compliance has in the past and will continue to have an impact on the banking industry and changes to these laws could affect our ability to deliver or expand our services. The Company’s participation, during early 2009, in the United States Department of the Treasury’s Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”) Capital Purchase Program creates additional regulatory oversight and compliance. The TARP regulations place limitations on compensation for executive officers and on dividend payments. These regulations may affect the ability of the Company to recruit and keep management. The regulations pertaining to TARP are in flux and additional regulations from TARP could affect the Company’s ability to operate in a competitive environment. See “Supervision and Regulation”. Industry Risk — We operate in a rapidly changing and intensely competitive market, with numerous competitors including other banks and insurance companies, securities dealers, trust and investment companies and mortgage bankers. Our profitability depends upon our continued success in competing in the Chicago market. 14 Table of Contents Operational Risk — We are subject to operations risks, including, but not limited to, an interruption or breach in security of information systems, customer or employee fraud and catastrophic failures. While we maintain a system of internal controls and insurance coverage where applicable, an event may occur that has an adverse affect on our results of operations and financial condition. Personnel Risk — Our success depends upon the continued service of our senior management team and our ability to attract and retain qualified financial services personnel. Loss of key personnel could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition through loss of their customer relationships and the potential difficulty promptly replacing officers in this competitive environment. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable. 