Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to various risks, including those discussed below, which may affect the value of our common stock. Set forth below are certain risk factors that we believe to be relevant to an understanding of our business. This list should not be considered a comprehensive list of all potential risks and uncertainties. You should also refer to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes for the year ended December 31, 2012. If our allowance for loan and lease losses is not sufficient to absorb further losses that may occur in our loan portfolio, our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity could continue to suffer. The U.S. economy has been in a prolonged recession and slow recovery in recent years, and the local economy in our market remains stressed and volatile. This market turmoil has decreased both our borrowers’ ability to repay their loans and the value of collateral, such as real estate, which secures many of our loans. If these economic conditions continue to persist, our loan customers may not be able to repay their loans according to their terms and their collateral may be insufficient to repay the loan. Management makes quarterly provisions to the allowance for loan and lease losses after taking into account specifically impaired loans, historical loss ratios and general economic conditions, among other factors. To the extent the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans worsens, or general economic conditions continue to deteriorate or fail to substantially recover, we may need to continue to increase our allowance, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and capital. In addition, our regulators continue to review the adequacy of our allowance and, through the examination process, have authority to compel us to increase our allowance even if we believe it is adequate. We cannot predict whether our regulators will require us to increase our allowance. Although we believe our loan loss allowance is adequate to absorb probable inherent losses in our loan portfolio, the allowance may not be adequate. If our actual loan losses exceed the amount that is anticipated, our earnings could suffer and our capital could be negatively affected. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for discussion of our allowance for loan and lease losses. Continued adverse conditions in the U.S. economy, and in particular the greater Chicago and suburban Chicago area, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Sustained weakness in the real estate market, reduced business activity, high unemployment, instability in the financial markets, less available credit and lack of confidence in the financial sector, among other factors, have adversely affected the Company and the financial services industry in general over the last several years. A sustained period of high unemployment or further deterioration in national or local business or economic conditions could result in, among other things, a further deterioration in credit quality or reduced demand for credit with a resultant negative effect on the Company’s loan portfolio and allowance for loan and lease losses. Economic factors may also continue to cause increased delinquencies and loan charge-offs, which will negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. A large percentage of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate. Current and further deterioration in the commercial real estate and housing market could cause continued increases in delinquencies and nonperforming assets, including loan charge-offs, and further depress our income. The commercial and residential real estate markets continue to experience significant challenges. Economic factors have and may continue to cause deterioration to the value of real estate the Company uses to secure a substantial amount of its loans. Moreover, in the Company’s loan portfolio there is a concentration of loans to the hotel industry. The resultant effect of the continued weakness of the economy and the deterioration of our real estate portfolio could result in additional increases in the provision for loan and lease losses, higher delinquencies and additional charge-offs in future periods that may materially affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents The Company also has a concentration of loans that have payment schedules where only interest is collected until the loan matures. If the value of the collateral securing these loans should decrease, the Bank’s loan to collateral value will decrease to a greater extent than loans that have payment schedules requiring principal reductions. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, and the sale or pledging as collateral of loans and other assets could adversely impact our ability to originate loans, invest in securities, meet our expenses or fulfill our other financial obligations. Liquidity is a measure of whether our cash flows and liquid assets are sufficient to satisfy current and future financial obligations, such as demand for loans, deposit withdrawals and operating costs. Our liquidity position is affected by a number of factors, including the amount of cash and other liquid assets on hand, payment of interest and dividends on debt and equity instruments that we have issued, capital we inject into the Bank and dividends received from the Bank. Continued weakness or worsening of the economy, real estate markets or unemployment levels may deplete our liquid assets. If our liquidity becomes limited, it may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are required to maintain certain minimum capital ratios by our regulators and any failure to maintain these capital ratios or difficulty raising capital, if required, could result in further enforcement actions against us, and further restrict our ability to originate loans and generate income. As a banking institution, we are subject to regulations that require us to maintain certain capital ratios, such as the ratio of our Tier 1 Capital to our risk-based assets. If our regulatory capital ratios decline, as a result of decreases in the value of our loan portfolio or otherwise, we will be required to improve such ratios by either raising additional capital or by disposing of assets. If we choose to dispose of assets, we cannot be certain that we will be able to do so at prices that we believe to be appropriate, and our future operating results could be negatively affected. If we choose to raise additional capital, we may accomplish this by selling additional shares of common stock, or securities convertible into or exchangeable for common stock, which could significantly dilute the ownership percentage of holders of our common stock and cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Events or circumstances in the capital markets generally may increase our capital costs and impair our ability to raise capital at any given time. In addition, our regulators continue to review the adequacy of our capital and, through the examination process, have authority to compel us to increase our capital even if we believe it is adequate. We cannot predict whether our regulators or new regulations will require us to increase our capital. On January14, 2013, the Bank entered into the 2013 Consent Order with the FDIC and the IDFPR, which replaced the 2010 Consent Order. The 2013 Consent Order imposes certain restrictions on liquidity. It prohibits the payment of any dividends by the Bank to the Company without the prior written consent of both the FDIC and the IDFPR. As of December 31, 2012, the Bank had a Total Risk-Based Capital Ratio of 12.11%, a Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital Ratio of 10.77% and a Leverage Ratio of 6.67% which was below the Leverage Ratio requirement of the 2013 Consent Order of 8.00%. Moreover, because the 2013 Consent Order establishes specific capital amounts to be maintained by the Bank, the Bank may not be considered better than “adequately capitalized” for capital adequacy purposes. As an adequately capitalized institution, the Bank may not accept, renew or roll over brokered deposits without prior approval of the FDIC. In addition, other depositors, including some local government entities, may not maintain their deposits at the Bank if the Bank is no longer well capitalized. See “Supervision and Regulation.” 18 Table of Contents The new capital rules proposed in June 2012 by the Federal Reserve and the FDIC to implement the Basel III capital guidelines could adversely affect the Company’s capital adequacy and the costs of conducting its business. Provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act require U.S. banking regulators to consider changes to strengthen minimum capital requirements for financial institutions as part of the overall financial reforms currently in the process of being implemented. On June 7, 2012, the Federal Reserve and other regulators released a notice of proposed rulemaking that would revise and replace the agencies’ current regulatory capital requirements and are intended to align U.S. capital requirements with Basel III international capital standards. To date, the final rules have not been issued. As proposed, these rules may increase the amount of capital required to support our business, especially on a risk-weighted basis, and, therefore, may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Once adopted, these new capital requirements would be phased in over time. Among other things, for bank holding companies with under $15 billion in assets, such as the Company, the ability to treat trust preferred securities as Tier 1 Capital will be phased out over 10 years. The ultimate impact of the implementation of the new capital and liquidity standards to the Company and the Bank will depend upon the final rules. In addition, important questions remain as to how the numerous capital and liquidity mandates of the Dodd–Frank Act will be integrated with the requirements of Basel III. The Company currently lacks the sources of income and the liquidity to make interest payments on the subordinated debentures associated with its outstanding trust preferred securities, and if this condition continues, the entire amount of deferred interest payments and principal may become due. Beginning in November 2009, the Company deferred its regularly scheduled quarterly interest payments on its $10.3 million of outstanding junior subordinated debentures relating to its outstanding trust preferred securities. As of December 31, 2012, the Company had deferred 13 quarterly interest payments totaling approximately $1.0 million. The Company has the right to defer the payment of interest on the junior subordinated debentures for a period not to exceed 20 consecutive quarters, or until December 15, 2014, should the deferral of interest continue. If the Company continues to defer interest until that time, then approximately $1.5 million in deferred interest will be due. Unless all of the deferred interest is brought current at that time, the trustee under the indenture may declare the entire outstanding amount of both principal and interest immediately due and payable. Currently, the Company lacks both the liquid assets to pay the interest on the outstanding junior subordinated debentures and any source of income other than the Bank. Given the restrictions placed upon the Bank by the 2013 Consent Order, the Bank may not be able to provide the Company with dividends in an amount sufficient to pay the deferred interest by December 15, 2014. The Company may have to find a source other than the Bank for these funds, or face defaulting on the subordinated debentures. There can be no assurance that the Company will find such a source of funding. If the Company does find such a source of funding, the funding may only be available upon onerous terms, such as terms that might substantially dilute the existing shareholders of the Company’s common stock, or the Company’s ownership interest in the Bank. Either of these occurrences could adversely affect the existing shareholders of the Company. Our business is highly regulated and may be adversely affected by changes in banking laws, regulations, and regulatory practices and enforcement actions. We are subject to extensive supervision, regulation and examination. This regulatory structure gives the regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities and examination policies to address not only compliance with applicable laws and regulations (including laws and regulations governing consumer credit, and anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism laws), but also capital adequacy, asset quality and risk, management ability and performance, earnings, liquidity and various other factors. As part of this regulatory structure, we are subject to policies and other guidance developed by the regulatory agencies with respect to capital levels, the timing and amount of dividend payments, the classification of assets and the establishment of adequate loan loss reserves for regulatory purposes. Under this structure the regulatory agencies have broad discretion to impose restrictions and limitations on our operations if they determine, among other things, that our operations are unsafe or unsound, fail to comply with applicable law or are otherwise inconsistent with laws and regulations or with the supervisory policies of these agencies. This supervisory framework could materially impact the conduct, growth and profitability of our operations. Any failure on our part to comply with current laws, regulations, other regulatory requirements or safe and sound banking practices or concerns about our financial condition, or any related regulatory sanctions or adverse actions against us, could increase our costs or restrict our ability to operate our business and result in damage to our reputation. The Company’s ongoing participation in the Treasury’s TARP CPP creates additional regulatory oversight and compliance. The TARP regulations place limitations on compensation for executive officers and on dividend payments. These regulations may affect the ability of the Company to recruit and keep management. The regulations pertaining to TARP could affect the Company’s ability to operate in a competitive environment. See “Supervision and Regulation.” 19 Table of Contents Financial reform legislation has, among other things, created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and may result in new regulations that tighten capital standards and increase our costs of operations. The Dodd-Frank Act has and will result in a number of new regulations that will impact community banks. The act includes, among other things, provisions allowing the federal bank regulatory agencies to review and establish new capital standards as deemed appropriate, provisions establishing the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which has broad authority to develop and implement rules regarding most consumer financial products; provisions affecting corporate governance and executive compensation at all publicly traded companies; provisions that broaden the base for FDIC insurance assessments and permanently increase FDIC deposit insurance to $250,000; and new restrictions on how mortgage brokers and loan originators may be compensated. These provisions, or any other aspects of current proposed regulatory or legislative changes to laws applicable to the financial industry, if enacted or adopted, may impact the profitability of our business activities or change certain of our business practices, including our ability to offer new products, obtain financing, attract deposits, make loans and achieve satisfactory interest spreads, and could expose us to additional costs, including increased compliance costs. These changes also may require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes to our business in order to comply, and could therefore also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. See “Supervision and Regulation.” A failure to comply with the terms of the Consent Order, which the Bank entered into with the FDIC and the IDFPR on January 14, 2013, and the terms of the Written Agreement, which the Company entered into with the Federal Reserve Bank on March 17, 2011, and any future enforcement actions to which we may become subject, could severely harm our business and financial results. Any material failure to comply with the provisions of the Consent Order could result in additional enforcement actions by the FDIC and the IDFPR. Likewise, any material failure to comply with the Written Agreement could result in additional enforcement actions against the Company by the Federal Reserve Bank. While the Company and the Bank intend to take such actions as may be necessary to comply with the requirements of the Consent Order and the Written Agreement, there can be no assurance that they will be able to comply fully with the provisions of the Consent Order and the Written Agreement, or that efforts to comply with the Consent Order and the Written Agreement will not have adverse effects on the operations and financial condition of the Company and the Bank. Changes in interest rates may reduce our net interest income. Our earnings and profitability depend significantly on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. Since interest rates can fluctuate in response to general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, including the Reserve Board, our asset-liability management strategy may not be able to prevent changes in interest rates from having a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The expiration of the Dodd-Frank Deposit Insurance Provision at the end of 2012 may have a material impact on deposits and the Company’s funding capabilities. The FDIC's transaction account guarantee program providing for unlimited insurance on noninterest-bearing demand deposit accounts, which was extended as part of the Dodd-Frank Deposit Insurance Provision, had been in place since 2008 and expired on December 31, 2012. The Bank could experience an outflow of deposits which may impact its funding capabilities and potentially result in an increase in the cost of funds further impairing the Bank’s results of operations. The soundness of other financial institutions could negatively affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding and other transactions could be negatively affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. Defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have in the past led to market-wide liquidity problems and losses of depositor, creditor and counterparty confidence and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. 20 Table of Contents The loss of certain key personnel could negatively affect our operations. Our success depends upon the continued service of our senior management team, their relationships with our customers and our ability to attract and retain qualified financial services personnel. Loss of key personnel could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition through loss of their customer relationships and the potential difficulty promptly replacing officers in this competitive environment. Our future success is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive banking industry. We face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors. Our profitability depends upon our success in competing in the northeast Illinois and southeast Wisconsin markets. We compete for loans and deposits in our geographic markets with other commercial banks, thrifts, credit unions and brokerage firms operating in the markets we serve. Many of our competitors offer products and services which we do not, and many have substantially greater resources, name recognition and market presence, all of which help to attract business. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do. Also, technological advances and the continued growth of internet-based banking and financial services have made it possible for nondepository institutions to offer a variety of products and services competitive with certain areas of our business. Some of the financial institutions and financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the same degree of regulation as is imposed on bank holding companies, savings and loan holding companies, federally insured, state-chartered banks, federal savings banks, thrifts and national banks. As a result, these nonbank competitors have certain advantages over us in accessing funding and in providing various products and services. Failures of our technology, operational and security systems may adversely affect our operations and our reputation. We are increasingly depending upon computer and other information technology systems to manage our business. We rely upon information technology systems to process, record and monitor and disseminate information about our operations. In some cases, we depend on third parties to provide or maintain these systems. We are subject to operating risks, including, but not limited to, an interruption or breach in security of information systems, customer or employee fraud and catastrophic failures. If any of our financial, accounting or other data processing systems suffer a cyber attack, fail or have other significant shortcomings, we could be materially adversely affected. Security breaches in our online banking systems could also have an adverse effect on our reputation and could subject us to possible liability. Even if not directed at the Company or the Bank specifically, attacks on other financial institutions could disrupt the overall functioning of the financial system to the detriment of other financial institutions, including the Company and the Bank. Our systems may also be affected by events that are beyond our control, which may include, for example, computer viruses, electrical or telecommunications outages or other damage to our property or assets. Although we take precautions against malfunctions and security breaches, our efforts may not be adequate to prevent problems that could materially adversely affect our business operations. 21 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable. 