Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to various risks, including those discussed below, which may affect the value of our common stock. Set forth below are certain risk factors which we believe to be relevant to an understanding of our business. This list should not be considered a comprehensive list of all potential risks and uncertainties. You should also refer to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes for the year ended December 31, 2009. Significant risk factors include: Credit Risk — The U.S. economy has been in a prolonged recession over the previous two years, and the local economy in our market remains stressed and volatile. This market turmoil has decreased both our borrowers’ ability to repay their loans and the value of collateral, such as real estate, which secures many of our loans. As a result, the Company’s levels of nonperforming assets substantially increased during 2008 and 2009. If these economic conditions persist, our loan customers may not be able to repay their loans according to their terms and the collateral may be insufficient to repay the loan. Management makes quarterly provisions to the allowance for loan and lease losses after taking into account specifically impaired loans, historical loss ratios and general economic conditions, among other factors. To the extent the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans worsens, or general economic conditions continue to deteriorate, we may need to continue to substantially increase our allowance, which would have an adverse affect on our results of operations and financial condition. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for discussion of our allowance for loan and lease losses. Economic Risk — Sustained weakness in the real estate market, reduced business activity, high unemployment, instability in the financial markets, less available credit and lack of confidence in the financial sector, among other factors, have adversely affected the Company and the financial services industry in general over the last two years. A sustained period of high unemployment or further deterioration in national or local business or economic conditions could result in, among other things, a further deterioration in credit quality or reduced demand for credit with a resultant negative effect on the Company’s loan portfolio and allowance for loan and lease losses. Economic factors may also continue to cause increased delinquencies and loan charge-offs, which will negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. 13 Table of Contents Real Estate Market Risk — The commercial and residential real estate markets continue to experience extraordinary challenges following the downturn in the last three years. A significant amount of the Company’s loans are secured by real estate, which has declined in value. Economic factors have and may continue to cause deterioration to the value of real estate the Company uses to secure its loans. The resultant effect of the continued weakness of the economy and the deterioration of our real estate portfolio could result in additional increases in the provision for loan and lease losses, higher delinquencies and additional charge-offs in future periods that may materially affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Capital Resources and Liquidity Risk — Liquidity is a measure of whether our cash flows and liquid assets are sufficient to satisfy current and future financial obligations, such as demand for loans, deposit withdrawals and operating costs. Our liquidity position is affected by a number of factors, including the amount of cash and other liquid assets on hand, payment of interest and dividends on debt and equity instruments that we have issued, capital we inject into the Bank and dividends received from the Bank. Continued weakness or worsening of the economy, real estate markets or unemployment levels may deplete our liquid assets. If our liquidity becomes limited, it may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, as a banking institution, we are subject to regulations that require us to maintain certain capital ratios, such as the ratio of our Tier 1 capital to our risk-based assets. If our regulatory capital ratios decline, as a result of decreases in the value of our loan portfolio or otherwise, we will be required to improve such ratios by either raising additional capital or by disposing of assets. If we choose to dispose of assets, we cannot be certain that we will be able to do so at prices that we believe to be appropriate, and our future operating results could be negatively affected. If we choose to raise additional capital, we may accomplish this by selling additional shares of common stock, or securities convertible into or exchangeable for common stock, which could significantly dilute the ownership percentage of holders of our common stock and cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Additionally, events or circumstances in the capital markets generally may increase our capital costs and impair our ability to raise capital at any given time. If finalized, the pending Consent Order will cause the Bank to be considered “adequately capitalized” because it establishes a ratio of capital that the Bank is to maintain. As an adequately capitalized institution, the Bank may not accept brokered deposits without prior approval of the FDIC. As of year end, the Bank had $94.9 million in brokered deposits. The Bank believes it will be able to find alternative funding sources for these brokered deposits. The Bank believes it will be able to find alternative funding sources for these brokered deposits as they come due, and does not anticipate seeking FDIC approval to receive brokered deposits. However, the other depositors, including some local government entities, may not maintain their deposits at the Bank if the Bank is no longer well capitalized Concentration Risk — In the Company’s loan portfolio there is a concentration of loans to the hotel industry and an overall concentration of loans secured by real estate. The recent general downturn in hotel occupancy rates has impacted and will continue to negatively impact borrowers’ ability to repay and consequently affect the Company’s earnings and its allowance for loan and lease losses. The Company also has a concentration of loans that have payment schedules where only interest is collected until the loan matures. If the value of the collateral securing these loans should decrease, the Bank’s loan to collateral value will decrease to a greater extent than loans that have payment schedules requiring principal reductions. Regulatory Risk — We are subject to extensive supervision, regulation and examination. This regulatory structure gives the regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities and examination policies to address not only compliance with applicable laws and regulations (including laws and regulations governing consumer credit, and anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism laws), but also capital adequacy, asset quality and risk, management ability and performance, earnings, liquidity, and various other factors. As part of this regulatory structure, we are subject to policies and other guidance developed by the regulatory agencies with respect to capital levels, the timing and amount of dividend payments, the classification of assets and the establishment of adequate loan loss reserves for regulatory purposes. 14 Table of Contents Under this structure the regulatory agencies have broad discretion to impose restrictions and limitations on our operations if they determine, among other things, that our operations are unsafe or unsound, fail to comply with applicable law or are otherwise inconsistent with laws and regulations or with the supervisory policies of these agencies. This supervisory framework could materially impact the conduct, growth and profitability of our operations. Any failure on our part to comply with current laws, regulations, other regulatory requirements or safe and sound banking practices or concerns about our financial condition, or any related regulatory sanctions or adverse actions against us, could increase our costs or restrict our ability to operate our business and result in damage to our reputation. The Company’s ongoing participation in the Treasury’s TARP CPP creates additional regulatory oversight and compliance. The TARP regulations place limitations on compensation for executive officers and on dividend payments. These regulations may affect the ability of the Company to recruit and keep management. The regulations pertaining to TARP could affect the Company’s ability to operate in a competitive environment. See “Supervision and Regulation”. Personnel Risk — Our success depends upon the continued service of our senior management team, their relationships with our customers and our ability to attract and retain qualified financial services personnel. Loss of key personnel could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition through loss of their customer relationships and the potential difficulty promptly replacing officers in this competitive environment. Interest Rate Risk — Our earnings and profitability depend significantly on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. Since interest rates can fluctuate in response to general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, including the Federal Reserve Bank, our asset-liability management strategy may not be able to prevent changes in interest rates from having a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Industry Risk — We operate in a rapidly changing and intensely competitive market, with numerous competitors including other banks and insurance companies, securities dealers, trust and investment companies and mortgage bankers. Our profitability depends upon our continued success in competing in the Chicago market. Operational Risk — We are subject to operations risks, including, but not limited to, an interruption or breach in security of information systems, customer or employee fraud and catastrophic failures. While we maintain a system of internal controls and insurance coverage where applicable, an event may occur that has an adverse affect on our results of operations and financial condition. 15 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable. 