ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this report, the following factors could affect our future business, results of operations, cash flows or financial position, and could cause future results to differ materially from those expressed in any of the forward-looking statements contained in this report. The Company’s Capital Investment at Each Site is Substantial Each radiosurgical or radiation therapy device requires a substantial capital investment. In some cases, we contribute additional funds for capital costs and/or annual operating and equipment related costs such as marketing, maintenance, insurance and property taxes. Due to the structure of our contracts with medical centers, there can be no assurance that these costs will be fully recovered or that we will earn a satisfactory return on our investment. The Market for the Gamma Knife is Limited There is a limited market for the Gamma Knife, and the market in the United States may be mature. The Company has begun operation at only four new Gamma Knife sites in the United States since 2004. Due to the substantial costs of acquiring a Gamma Knife unit, we must identify medical centers that possess neurosurgery and radiation oncology departments capable of performing a large number of Gamma Knife procedures. As of December 31, 2010, there were approximately 114 operating Gamma Knife units in the United States, of which 19 units were owned by us, and approximately 276 units in operation worldwide. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in placing additional units at any sites in the future. The Company’s existing contracts with its customers are fixed in length and there can be no assurance that the customers will wish to extend the contract beyond the end of the term. The Company Has a High Level of Debt The Company’s business is capital intensive. The Company finances its IGRT system through ASHS and its Gamma Knife units through its GKF subsidiary. The amounts financed through GKF have been generally non-recourse to ASHS. The Company’s combined long term debt and present value of capital leases totals $29,243,000 as of December 31, 2010 and is collateralized by the Gamma Knife and IGRT equipment and other assets, including accounts receivable and future proceeds from any contract between the Company and any end user of the financed equipment. This high level of debt may adversely affect the Company’s ability to secure additional credit in the future, and as a result may affect operations and profitability. If default on debt occurs in the future, the Company’s creditors would have the ability to accelerate the defaulted loan, to seize the Gamma Knife unit or other equipment with respect to which default has occurred, and to apply any collateral they may have at the time to cure the default. The Company also has a line of credit with a bank, against which it has drawn $8,500,000 as of December 31, 2010. The Market is Competitive The Company estimates that there are three other companies that actively provide alternative, non-conventional Gamma Knife financing to potential customers. We believe there are no competitor companies that currently have more than six Gamma Knife units in operation. The Company’s relationship with Elekta, the manufacturer of the Leksell Gamma Knife unit, is non-exclusive, and in the past the Company has lost sales to customers that chose to purchase a Gamma Knife unit directly from Elekta. In addition, the Company may continue to lose future sales to such customers and may also lose future sales to its competitors. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to successfully compete against others in placing future units. There are Alternatives to the Gamma Knife Other radiosurgery devices and conventional neurosurgery compete against the Gamma Knife. Each of the medical centers targeted by the Company could decide to acquire another radiosurgery device instead of a Gamma Knife. In addition, neurosurgeons who are primarily responsible for referring patients for Gamma Knife surgery may not be willing to make such referrals for various reasons, instead opting for invasive surgery. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to secure a sufficient number of future sites or Gamma Knife procedures to sustain its profitability and growth. 12 The Company’s Revenue Could Decline if Federal Reimbursement Rates are Lowered The amount reimbursed to medical centers for each Gamma Knife or radiation therapy treatment may decline in the future. The reimbursement decrease may come from federally mandated programs (i.e., Medicare and Medicaid) or other third party payor groups. Fourteen of the Company’s twenty existing contracts are reimbursed by the medical center to the Company on a fee per use basis. The primary risk under this type of contract is that the actual volume of procedures could be less than projected. However, a significant reimbursement rate reduction may result in the Company restructuring certain of its existing contracts. There are also six contracts where the Company receives revenue based directly on the amount of reimbursement received for procedures performed. Revenue under those contracts and any future contracts with revenue based directly on reimbursement amounts will be impacted by any reimbursement rate change. Some of the Company’s future contracts for Gamma Knife services may have revenue based on such reimbursement rates instead of a fee per use basis. There can be no assurance that future changes in healthcare regulations and reimbursement rates will not directly or indirectly adversely affect the Company’s Gamma Knife revenue. New Technology and Products Could Result in Equipment Obsolescence There is constant change and innovation in the market for highly sophisticated medical equipment. New and improved medical equipment can be introduced that could make the Gamma Knife technology obsolete and that would make it uneconomical to operate. During 2000, Elekta introduced an upgraded Gamma Knife which cost approximately $3.6 million plus applicable tax and duties. This upgrade includes an Automatic Positioning System™ (“APS”), and therefore involves less health care provider intervention. In early 2005, Elekta introduced a new upgrade, the Gamma Knife Model 4C (“Model 4C”). The cost to upgrade existing units to the Model 4C with APS is estimated to be approximately $200,000 to $1,000,000, depending on the current Gamma Knife configuration. In 2006 Elekta introduced a new model of the Gamma Knife, the Perfexion, which costs approximately $4.5 million plus applicable taxes and duties. The Perfexion can perform procedures faster than previous Gamma Knife models and it provides the additional ability to perform procedures on areas of the cervical spine. Existing models of the Gamma Knife are not upgradeable to the Perfexion model. As of March 1, 2011, eight of the Company’s Gamma Knife units are Perfexion models; of the Company’s remaining Gamma Knife units, five are Model 4C with APS and six are upgradeable to more advanced Model 4C units. The failure to acquire or use new technology and products could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, there are constant advances made in radiation therapy equipment. The Company purchased an IGRT system in 2006 with a list price of approximately $8,300,000. As in the Gamma Knife business, new and improved IGRT equipment can be introduced that could make the existing technology obsolete and that would make it uneconomical to operate. The Company Has Invested in a Proton Beam Business that is Developmental and Unproven We have committed a substantial amount of our financial resources to next-generation proton beam technology. The PBRT system being developed by Still River is not commercially proven and cannot be reimbursed by most major insurors prior to FDA approval, which may not be obtained. Prior to that time, we must make progress payments of $6,500,000 for three Monarch250 systems (the Company has already made deposits of $2,500,000 towards this commitment). There can be no assurance that we will recover this investment or future investments, or our $2,617,000 minority investment in Still River. Our current belief is that we will begin to receive revenue for PBRT systems placed and financed by us during 2012, assuming FDA approval is obtained. The Trading Volume of Our Common Stock is Low Although our common stock is listed on the NYSE Amex Exchange, our common stock has experienced low trading volume, both historically and recently. Reported average daily trading volume in our common stock for the three-month period ended December 31, 2010 was approximately 4,800 shares. There is no reason to think that a more active trading market in our common stock will develop in the future. Limited trading volume subjects our common stock to greater price volatility and may make it difficult for you to sell your shares in a quantity or at a price that is attractive to you. 13 