Risk Factors” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” “–Summary of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” and “–Liquidity and Capital Resources.” This report should be read in its entirety. No one section of this report deals with all aspects of the subject matter. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date such statement was made, and we are not obligated to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement was made, except as required by applicable laws or regulations. 3 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS GENERAL American Shared Hospital Services (“ASHS” and, together with its subsidiaries, the “Company”) provides Gamma Knife stereotactic radiosurgery equipment and radiation therapy and related equipment to seventeen (17) medical centers in sixteen (16) states in the United States and two medical centers in Turkey, as of March 1, 2013. The Company provides Gamma Knife services through its 81% indirect interest in GK Financing, LLC, a California limited liability company (“GKF”). The remaining 19% of GKF is owned by GKV Investments, Inc., a wholly owned U.S. subsidiary of Elekta AG, a Swedish company (“Elekta”). Elekta is the manufacturer of the Leksell Gamma Knifeâ (the “Gamma Knife”). GKF is a non-exclusive provider of alternative financing services for Elekta Gamma Knife units. GKF has established the wholly-owned subsidiaries, GK Financing U.K., Limited (“GKUK”), Instituto de Gamma Knife del Pacifico S.A.C. (“GKPeru”), the 70% majority owned subsidiary EWRS, LLC (“EWRS”), and the wholly-owned subsidiaries GKFDB#1, LLC (“GKFDB1”) and GKFDB#2, LLC (“GKFDB2”) for the purpose of providing similar Gamma Knife services in England, Peru, Turkey and Brazil, respectively. The remaining 30% of EWRS is owned by EMKA, Ltd, a wholly owned U.S. subsidiary of Ozyurek, A.S., a Turkish company which is a distributor of Gamma Knife and other equipment in Turkey. EWRS owns 100% of EWRS Tibbi Cihazlar Ticaret Ltd Sti (“EWRS Turkey”). GKFDB1 and GKFDB2 each own 50% of a Brazilian subsidiary, GKF do Brasil Equipamentos Medicos LTDA (“GKF do Brasil”). GKF also owns a 51% interest in Albuquerque GK Equipment, LLC (“AGKE”) and Jacksonville GK Equipment, LLC (“JGKE”). The remaining 49% in each of these two companies is owned by various physician groups. GKUK is inactive, and GKF do Brasil is not expected to generate revenue during the next twelve months. Gamma Knife revenue accounted for 89% of the Company’s revenue in 2012. The Company also provides Image Guided Radiation Therapy (“IGRT”) and related equipment to two medical centers located in Massachusetts and Turkey which accounted for 11% of the Company’s revenue in 2012. In April 2006, the Company invested $2,000,000 for a minority equity interest in Mevion Medical Systems, Inc. (formerly Still River Systems, Inc.) (“Mevion”), a development-stage company based in Littleton, Massachusetts which, in collaboration with scientists from MIT’s Plasma Science and Fusion Center, is developing a medical device for the treatment of cancer patients using proton beam radiation therapy (“PBRT”). In September 2007, December 2011, and June 2012 the Company invested approximately $617,000, $70,000 and $31,000, respectively, for additional equity interests in Mevion. The Company has deposited an additional $3,000,000 towards the purchase of three Mevion S250 (“Mevion S250”) PBRT systems from Mevion for anticipated delivery beginning in 2014. The Mevion units are single treatment PBRT systems. In 2012, Mevion received clearance for the Mevion S250 PBRT system with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”), and in 2011 it received Conformite Europeene Mark (“CE Mark”) certification. The Company is also seeking to expand its financing model to include two-room PBRT systems to major medical centers in the United States and abroad. This effort remains in the development stage and no significant revenues are expected in the next two years. The Company continues to develop its design and business model for “The Operating Room for the 21st Century”â (“OR21”â). OR21 is not expected to generate significant revenue within the next twelve months. The Company also wholly-owns the subsidiaries ASHSDB#1, LLC (“ASHSDB1”) and ASHSDB#2, LLC (“ASHSDB2”) which each own 50% of a Brazilian subsidiary, ASHS do Brasil Equipamentos Medicos LTDA (“ASHS do Brasil”), which was formed to provide medical equipment services other than the Gamma Knife to hospitals and medical centers in Brazil. ASHS do Brasil is not expected to generate revenue in the next twelve months. 4 The Company was incorporated in the State of California in 1983 and its predecessor, Ernest A. Bates, M.D., Ltd. (d/b/a American Shared Hospital Services), a California limited partnership, was formed in June 1980. OPERATIONS Gamma Knife Operations Gamma Knife stereotactic radiosurgery, a non-invasive procedure, is an alternative to conventional brain surgery or can be an adjunct to conventional brain surgery, radiation therapy, or chemotherapy. Compared to conventional surgery, Gamma Knife radiosurgery usually involves shorter patient hospitalization, lower risk of complications and can be provided at a lower cost. Typically, Gamma Knife patients resume their pre-surgical activities one or two days after treatment. The Gamma Knife treats patients with 201 single doses of gamma rays that are focused with great precision on small and medium sized, well circumscribed and critically located structures in the brain. During 2006 Elekta introduced a new Gamma Knife model, the Perfexion™ unit (“Perfexion”), which treats patients with 192 single doses of gamma rays and will also provide the ability to perform procedures on areas of the upper cervical spine. The Gamma Knife delivers a concentrated dose of gamma rays from Cobalt-60 sources housed in the Gamma Knife. The Cobalt-60 sources converge at the target area and deliver a dose that is high enough to destroy the diseased tissue without damaging surrounding healthy tissue. The Gamma Knife treats selected malignant and benign brain tumors, arteriovenous malformations, and functional disorders including trigeminal neuralgia (facial pain). Research is being conducted to determine whether the Gamma Knife can be effective in the treatment of epilepsy and other functional disorders. As of December 31, 2012, there were approximately 131 Gamma Knife sites in the United States and more than 320 units in operation worldwide. Based on the most recent available data, an estimated percentage breakdown of Gamma Knife procedures performed in the U.S. by indications treated is as follows: malignant (47%) and benign (29%) brain tumors, vascular disorders (8%), and functional disorders (16%). The Company, as of March 1, 2013, has nineteen (19) operating Gamma Knife units located at seventeen (17) sites in the United States and two sites in Turkey. In addition, the Company owns two Gamma Knife units in the United States that are pending trade-in or placement elsewhere at future Gamma Knife sites. The Company’s first Gamma Knife commenced operation in September 1991. The Company’s Gamma Knife units performed approximately 2,100 procedures in 2012 for a cumulative total of approximately 28,500 procedures through December 31, 2012. Revenue from Gamma Knife services for the Company during each of the last five (5) years ended December 31, and the percentage of total revenue of the Company represented by the Gamma Knife for each of the last five years, are set forth below: Year Ended December 31, Total Gamma Knife Revenue (in thousands) Gamma Knife % of Total Revenue 2012 $15,154 88.9% 2011 $21,077(1) 94.9% 2010 $15,600 93.6% 2009 $15,505 92.5% 2008 $17,713 92.7% (1)includes $4,984,000 of equipment sales revenue from the sale of a Gamma Knife system to an existing Gamma Knife customer at the end of the contract term. The Company conducts its Gamma Knife business through its 81% indirect interest in GKF. The remaining 19% interest is indirectly owned by Elekta. GKF, formed in October 1995, is managed by its policy committee. The policy committee is composed of one representative from the Company, Ernest A. Bates, M.D., ASHS’s Chairman and CEO, and one representative from Elekta. The policy committee sets the operating policy for GKF. The policy committee may act only with the unanimous approval of both of its members. The policy committee selects a manager to handle GKF’s daily operations. Craig K. Tagawa, Chief Executive Officer of GKF and Chief Operating and Financial Officer of ASHS, serves as GKF’s manager. 5 GKF’s profits and/or losses and any cash distributions are allocated based on membership interests. GKF’s operating agreement requires that it have a cash reserve of at least $50,000 before cash distributions are made to its members. From inception to December 31, 2012, GKF has distributed $38,232,000 to the Company and $8,968,000 to the non-controlling member. Image Guided Radiation Therapy Operations The Company’s radiation therapy business currently consists of one IGRT system that began operation in September 2007, and another that began operation in December 2011, both at existing Gamma Knife customer sites. Revenue generated under IGRT services accounted for approximately 11% of the Company’s total revenue in 2012. IGRT technology integrates imaging and detection components into a state-of-the-art linear accelerator, allowing clinicians to plan treatment, verify positioning, and deliver treatment with a single device, providing faster, more effective radiation therapy with less damage to healthy tissue. IGRT captures cone beam imaging, fluoroscopic and/or x-ray images on a daily basis, creating three-dimensional images that pinpoint the exact size, location and coordinates of tumors. Once tumors are pinpointed, the system delivers ultra-precise doses of radiation which ultimately leads to improved patient outcomes. Based on the most recently available information, there are approximately 4,000 linear accelerator based radiation therapy units installed in the United States, and it is estimated that a majority of these units provide IMRT, IGRT or a combination of this advanced radiation therapy capability. Radiation therapy services are provided through approximately 2,200 hospital based and free-standing oncology centers. Additional information on our operations can be found in Item 6–“Selected Financial Data”, Item 7–“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 1 of our consolidated financial statements beginning on page A-8 of this report. CUSTOMERS The Company’s current business is the outsourcing of stereotactic radiosurgery services and radiation therapy services. The Company typically provides the equipment, as well as planning, installation, reimbursement and marketing support services. The majority of the Company’s customers pay the Company on a fee per use basis. The market for these services primarily consists of major urban medical centers. The business is capital intensive; the total cost of a Gamma Knife or IGRT facility usually ranges from $3 million to $5.5 million, including equipment, site construction and installation. The Company pays for the equipment and the medical center generally pays for site and installation costs. The following is a listing of the Company’s sites as of March 1, 2013: 6 Customers (Gamma Knife except as noted) Original Term of Contract Year Contract Began Basis of Payment Southwest Texas Methodist Hospital 10 years 1998 Fee per use San Antonio, Texas Yale New Haven Hospital 10 years 1998 Fee per use New Haven, Connecticut Kettering Medical Center 10 years 1999 Revenue sharing Kettering, Ohio Tufts Medical Center 10 years 1999 Fee per use Boston, Massachusetts University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences 15 years 1999 Revenue sharing Little Rock, Arkansas Froedtert Memorial Lutheran Hospital 10 years 1999 Fee per use Milwaukee, Wisconsin JFK Medical Center 10 years 2000 Fee per use Edison, New Jersey Sunrise Hospital and Medical Center 10 years 2001 Fee per use Las Vegas, Nevada Central Mississippi Medical Center 10 years 2001 Fee per use Jackson, Mississippi OSF Saint Francis Medical Center 10 years 2001 Fee per use Peoria, Illinois Bayfront Medical Center 10 years 2002 Fee per use St. Petersburg, Florida Albuquerque Regional Medical Center 10 years 2003 Fee per use Albuquerque, New Mexico Northern Westchester Hospital 10 years 2005 Fee per use Mt. Kisco, New York Mercy Health Center 10 years 2005 Revenue Sharing Oklahoma City, Oklahoma Tufts Medical Center (IGRT) 10 years 2007 Revenue Sharing Boston, Massachusetts USC University Hospital 10 years 2008 Fee per use Los Angeles, California Ft. Sanders Regional Medical Center 10 years 2011 Revenue Sharing Knoxville, Tennessee St. Vincent’s Medical Center 10 years 2011 Revenue Sharing Jacksonville, Florida Baskent University Application and Research Center 7 years 2011 Revenue Sharing Adana, Turkey Baskent University Application and Research Center (IGRT) 5 years 2011 Revenue Sharing Adana, Turkey Florence Nightingale Hospital 12 years 2012 Revenue Sharing Istanbul, Turkey The Company’s fee per use agreement is typically for a ten year term. The fixed fee per use reimbursement amount that the Company receives from the customer is based on the Company’s cost to provide the service and the anticipated volume of the customer. The Gamma Knife contracts signed by the Company typically call for a fee ranging from $7,500 to $9,500 per procedure. There are no minimum volume guarantees required of the customer. Typically, GKF is responsible for providing the Gamma Knife and related ongoing Gamma Knife equipment expenses (i.e., personal property taxes, insurance, and equipment maintenance) and also helps fund the customer’s Gamma Knife marketing. The customer generally is obligated to pay site and installation costs and the costs of operating the Gamma Knife. The customer can either renew the agreement or terminate the agreement at the end of the contractual term. If the customer chooses to terminate the agreement, then GKF removes the equipment from the medical center for possible placement at another site. The Company’s revenue sharing agreements (“retail”) are for a period of five to fifteen years. Instead of receiving a fixed fee, the Company receives all or a percentage of the reimbursement (exclusive of physician fees) received by the customer. The Company is at risk for any reimbursement rate changes for radiosurgery or radiation therapy services by the government or other third party payors. Other than one site, there are no minimum volume guarantees required of the customer. 7 In 2012, two customers accounted for approximately 13% and 11% each of the Company’s total revenue. In 2011, one customer accounted for approximately 25% of the Company’s total revenue. Included in total revenue was $4,984,000 in equipment sales revenue to this customer whose contract ended. Excluding this transaction, there were two customers who accounted for approximately 13% and 11% each of total revenue. In 2010, one customer accounted for approximately 13% of the Company’s total revenue. MARKETING The Company markets its services through its preferred provider status with Elekta and a direct sales effort led by its Vice President of Sales and Business Development and its Chief Operating Officer. The major advantages to a health care provider in contracting with the Company for Gamma Knife services include: §The medical center avoids the high cost of owning the equipment. By not acquiring the Gamma Knife unit or other medical equipment, the medical center is able to allocate the funds otherwise required to purchase and/or finance the Gamma Knife to other projects. §The Company does not have minimum volume requirements, so the medical center avoids the risk of equipment under-utilization. The medical center pays the Company only for each procedure performed on a patient. §For contracts under revenue sharing arrangements, the Company assumes all or a portion of the risk of reimbursement rate changes. The medical center pays the Company only the contracted portion of revenue received from each procedure. §The medical center transfers the risk of technological obsolescence to the Company. The medical center and its physicians are not under any obligation to utilize technologically obsolete equipment. §The Company provides planning, installation, operating and marketing assistance and support to its customers. FINANCING The Company’s U.S. IGRT site is owned by ASHS and is financed at approximately 100% of the total project cost, under a loan that fully amortizes over an 84-month period and is fully collateralized by the equipment, the customer contract and accounts receivable. The Company’s Gamma Knife business is operated through GKF. GKF generally finances its U.S. Gamma Knife units, upgrades and additions with loans or capital leases from various finance companies for 100% of the cost of each Gamma Knife, plus any sales tax, customs and duties. GKF’s international operations are financed at approximately 85% of the cost of the equipment. The financing is predominantly fully amortized over an 84-month period and is collateralized by the equipment, customer contracts and accounts receivable, and is generally without recourse to the Company and Elekta. COMPETITION Conventional neurosurgery, radiation therapy and other radiosurgery devices are the primary competitors of Gamma Knife radiosurgery. Gamma Knife radiosurgery has gained acceptance as an alternative and/or adjunct to conventional surgery due to its more favorable morbidity outcomes for certain procedures as well as its non-invasiveness. Utilization of the Company’s Gamma Knife units is contingent on the acceptance of Gamma Knife radiosurgery by the customer’s neurosurgeons, radiation oncologists and referring physicians. In addition, the utilization of the Company’s Gamma Knife units is impacted by the proximity of competing Gamma Knife centers and providers using other radiosurgery devices. 8 The Company’s ability to secure additional customers for Gamma Knife services and other radiosurgery and radiation therapy services is dependent on its ability to effectively compete against (i) Elekta, the manufacturer of the Gamma Knife, (ii) manufacturers of other radiosurgery and radiation therapy devices, and (iii) other companies that outsource these services. The Company does not have an exclusive relationship with Elekta or other manufacturers and has previously lost sales to customers that chose to purchase equipment directly from manufacturers. The Company may continue to lose future sales to such customers and may also lose sales to the Company’s competitors. GOVERNMENT PROGRAMS The Medicare program is administered by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”) of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (“DHHS”). Medicare is a health insurance program primarily for individuals 65 years of age and older, certain younger people with disabilities, and people with end-stage renal disease, and is provided without regard to income or assets. The Medicare program is subject to statutory and regulatory changes, administrative rulings, interpretations and determinations, requirements for utilization review, and federal and state funding restrictions, all of which could materially increase or decrease payments from these government programs in the future, as well as affect the cost of providing services to patients and the timing of payments to our client hospitals. The Company’s Gamma Knife and radiation therapy customers receive payments for patient care from federal government and private insurer reimbursement programs. Currently in the United States, Gamma Knife services are performed primarily on an out-patient basis. Gamma Knife patients with Medicare as their primary insurer, treated on either an in-patient or out-patient basis, comprise an estimated 30-40% of the total Gamma Knife patients treated nationwide. Radiation therapy patients with Medicare as their primary insurer are treated primarily on an out-patient basis, and comprise an estimated 45% to 50% of the total radiation therapy patients treated. The Company estimates that its percentage of patients with Medicare as their primary insurer approximates these national averages. A Prospective Payment System ("PPS") is utilized to reimburse hospitals for care given to hospital in-patients covered by federally funded reimbursement programs. Patients are classified into a Diagnosis Related Group ("DRG") in accordance with the patient's diagnosis, necessary medical procedures and other factors. Patient reimbursement is limited to a predetermined amount for each DRG. The reimbursement payment may not necessarily cover the cost of all medical services actually provided because the payment is predetermined. Effective October 1, 1997, Gamma Knife services for Medicare hospital in-patients are reimbursed under various DRG codes. In 1986 and again in 1990, Congress enacted legislation requiring the DHHS to develop proposals for a PPS for Medicare out-patient services. DHHS proposed a new payment system, Ambulatory Payment Classifications (“APC”), which affects all out-patient services performed in a hospital based facility. APC implementation took place in the third quarter of 2000. The APC consists of 346 clinically homogenous classifications or groupings of codes that are typically used in out-patient billing. Out-patient services are bundled with fixed rates of payment determined according to specific regional and national factors, similar to that of the in-patient PPS. The Gamma Knife APC rate is modified periodically but the total reimbursement amount has historically remained fairly constant. Effective January 1, 2012, total Gamma Knife reimbursement based on all commonly used billing codes decreased by approximately 2% (to approximately $9,308) compared to 2011. This follows a 4% increase in 2011, a 3% decrease in 2010 and a 5% decrease in 2009 compared to the prior years, respectively. The Company has five Gamma Knife contracts from which its revenue is directly affected by changes in payment rates under the APC system. 9 On January 2, 2013, Congress enacted The American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, which reduced the reimbursement rate for outpatient Gamma Knife treatment to the reimbursement rate for one (1) linear accelerator outpatient treatment session. This is significant because Gamma Knife treatment usually requires only one session as opposed to multiple treatments for linear accelerators. Thus, while reimbursement for a complete program of linear accelerator treatment will usually be a multiple of the reimbursement rate for a single treatment session, reimbursement for Gamma Knife treatment will be limited to the equivalent of one linear accelerator treatment session. It was for this reason (and due to the higher costs of obtaining and maintaining Gamma Knife equipment) that CMS has historically supported a higher reimbursement rate for Gamma Knife treatment than the reimbursement rates for linear accelerator treatment. The net effect is that, commencing April 1, 2013, Gamma Knife delivery code reimbursement will be reduced from $7,910 to $3,300. All other Gamma Knife reimbursement codes remain unchanged. This will directly affect the Company under its five Gamma Knife contracts from which the Company's revenue is directly affected by changes in payment rates under the APC system. In addition, with respect to its other contracts under which the Company is paid a fixed payment for each Gamma Knife procedure, even though the fixed contract rate payable to the Company will not change, in light of the lower Gamma Knife revenues that will be received by the Company's customers (i.e., hospitals), they may seek to lower their contractual payments. IGRT is a relatively new service to radiation oncology. The 2005 through 2007 APC payment rates averaged approximately $80 for each of five procedure codes. In 2008 DHHS determined that these services were to be packaged into other services. As a result, there are currently no specific outpatient payment rates for IGRT, and reimbursement is made through various packaged codes. However, standard radiation therapy services are reimbursed by CMS and other third party payors. We are unable to predict the effect of future government health care funding policy changes on operations. If the rates paid by governmental payers are reduced, if the scope of services covered by governmental payers is limited, or if one or more of our hospital clients are excluded from participation in the Medicare program or any other government health care program, there could be a material adverse effect on our business. Affordable Care Act In March 2010, President Obama signed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, (“Affordable Care Act”) into law, which will result in significant changes to the health care industry. The primary goal of the legislation is to extend health care coverage to approximately 32 million uninsured legal U.S. residents through both an expansion of public programs and reforms to private sector health insurance. The expansion of insurance coverage is expected to be funded in part by measures designed to promote quality and cost efficiency in health care delivery and by budgetary savings in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Because the Company is not a health care provider, we are not directly affected by the law, but we could be indirectly affected principally as follows: ·An increase in the number of insured residents could potentially increase the number of patients seeking Gamma Knife or radiation therapy treatment. ·The Company’s retail contracts are subject to reimbursement rate changes for radiosurgery or radiation therapy services by the government or other third party payors. Any changes to Medicare or Medicaid reimbursement through the implementation of the Affordable Care Act could affect revenue generated from these sites. We are unable to predict with certainty the full impact of the Affordable Care Act on our future revenues and operations at this time due to the law’s complexity, the limited amount of guidance available and possible amendments. GOVERNMENT REGULATION The payment of remuneration to induce the referral of health care business has been a subject of increasing governmental and regulatory focus in recent years. Section 1128B(b) of the Social Security Act (sometimes referred to as the "federal anti-kickback statute") provides criminal penalties for individuals or entities that offer, pay, solicit or receive remuneration in order to induce referrals for items or services for which payment may be made under the Medicare and Medicaid programs and certain other government funded programs. The Affordable Care Act amended the anti-kickback statute to eliminate the requirement of actual knowledge, or specific intent to commit a violation, of the anti-kickback statute. The Social Security Act provides authority to the Office of Inspector General through civil proceedings to exclude an individual or entity from participation in the Medicare and state health programs if it is determined any such party has violated Section 1128B(b) of the Social Security Act. The Company believes that it is in compliance with the federal anti-kickback statute. Additionally, the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993, often referred to as "Stark II", bans physician self-referrals to providers of designated health services with which the physician has a financial relationship. On September 5, 2007, the third and final phase of the Stark regulations (Phase III) was published. The term "designated health services" includes, among others, radiation therapy services and in-patient and out-patient hospital services. On January 1, 1995, the Physician Ownership and Referral Act of 1993 became effective in California. This legislation prohibits physician self-referrals for covered goods and services, including radiation oncology, if the physician (or the physician's immediate family) concurrently has a financial interest in the entity receiving the referral. The Company believes that it is in compliance with these rules and regulations. 10 On August 19, 2008, the CMS published a final rule relating to inpatient hospital services paid under the Inpatient Prospective Payment System for discharges in the Fiscal Year 2009 (the “Final Rule”). Among other things, the Final Rule prohibits “per-click payments” to certain physician lessors for services rendered to patients who were referred by the physician lessor. This prohibition on per-click payments for leased equipment used in the treatment of a patient referred to a hospital lessee by a physician lessor applies regardless of whether the physician himself or herself is the lessor or whether the lessor is an entity in which the referring physician has an ownership or investment interest. The effective date of this prohibition was October 1, 2009. However, referrals made by a radiation oncologist for radiation therapy or ancillary services necessary for, and integral to, the provision of radiation therapy (such as Gamma Knife services) are not subject to this prohibition so long as certain conditions are met. GK Financing’s majority owned subsidiaries, Albuquerque GK Equipment, LLC (“AGKE”) and Jacksonville GK Equipment, LLC (“JGKE”) have minority ownership interests that are held solely by radiation oncologists, who are otherwise exempt from the referral prohibition under the Final Rule. The Company believes it is in compliance with the Final Rule. A range of federal civil and criminal laws target false claims and fraudulent billing activities. One of the most significant is the Federal False Claims Act, which prohibits the submission of a false claim or the making of a false record or statement in order to secure a reimbursement from a government-sponsored program. In recent years, the federal government has launched several initiatives aimed at uncovering practices which violate false claims or fraudulent billing laws. Claims under these laws may be brought either by the government or by private individuals on behalf of the government, through a "whistleblower" or "qui tam" action. The Company believes that it is in compliance with the Federal False Claims Act; however, because such actions are filed under seal and may remain secret for years, there can be no assurance that the Company or one of its affiliates is not named in a material qui tam action. Legislation in various jurisdictions requires that health facilities obtain a Certificate of Need ("CON") prior to making expenditures for medical technology in excess of specified amounts. Four of the Company’s existing customers were required to obtain a CON or its equivalent. The CON procedure can be expensive and time consuming and may impact the length of time before Gamma Knife services commence. CON requirements vary from state to state in their application to the operations of both the Company and its customers. In some jurisdictions the Company is required to comply with CON procedures to provide its services and in other jurisdictions customers must comply with CON procedures before using the Company's services. The Company is unable to predict if any jurisdiction will eliminate or alter its CON requirements in a manner that will increase competition and, thereby, affect the Company's competitive position. The Company's Gamma Knife units contain Cobalt 60 radioactive sources. The medical centers that house the Company's Gamma Knife units are responsible for obtaining possession and user's licenses for the Cobalt 60 source from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Standard linear accelerator equipment utilized to treat patients is regulated by the FDA. The licensing is obtained by the individual medical center operating the equipment. The Company believes it is in substantial compliance with the various rules and regulations that affect its businesses. 11 INSURANCE AND INDEMNIFICATION The Company's contracts with equipment vendors generally do not contain indemnification provisions. The Company maintains a comprehensive insurance program covering the value of its property and equipment, subject to deductibles, which the Company believes are reasonable. The Company's customer contracts generally contain mutual indemnification provisions. The Company maintains general and professional liability insurance. The Company is not involved in the practice of medicine and therefore believes its present insurance coverage and indemnification agreements are adequate for its business. PROTON BEAM RADIATION THERAPY BUSINESS PBRT is an alternative to traditional external beam, photon based radiation delivered by linear accelerators. PBRT, first clinically introduced in the 1950s, has physics advantages compared to photon based systems which allow PBRT to deliver higher radiation doses to the tumor with less radiation to healthy tissue. PBRT currently treats prostate, eye, cranial-spinal, head and neck, lung, liver and breast tumors. In excess of 80,000 patients have been treated with protons worldwide. Introduction of PBRT in the United States, until recently, has been limited due to lack of adequate reimbursement and the high capital costs of these projects. The Company believes that the current development of one and two treatment room PBRT systems at lower capital costs, and the recent implementation of reimbursement rates for PBRT from the CMS will help make this technology available to a larger segment of the market. There are several competing manufacturers of proton beam systems, including Mevion, IBA Particle Therapy Inc., Hitachi Ltd., Optivus Proton Therapy Inc., Varian Medical Systems, Inc. (Accel), Sumitomo Heavy Industries, ProTom International, Inc. and Mitsubishi Electric. The Company has invested in Mevion and has made deposits towards the purchase of three of the Mevion S250 systems. The Mevion system potentially provides cancer centers the opportunity to introduce single treatment room PBRT services with cost in the range of approximately $20 to $25 million rather than four and five PBRT treatment room programs costing in excess of $120 million. The Mevion system received FDA approval in second quarter 2012. The Company believes the business model it has developed for use in its Gamma Knife and radiation therapy businesses can be tailored for the PBRT market segment. The Company is targeting large, hospital based cancer programs. The Company’s ability to develop a successful PBRT financing entity depends on the decision of cancer centers to self-fund or to fund the PBRT through conventional financing vehicles, the Company’s ability to capture market share from competing alternative PBRT financing entities, and the Company’s ability to raise capital to fund PBRT projects. EMPLOYEES At December 31, 2012, the Company employed ten (10) people on a full-time basis. None of these employees is subject to a collective bargaining agreement and there is no union representation within the Company. The Company maintains various employee benefit plans and believes that its employee relations are good. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY The following table provides current information concerning those persons who serve as executive officers of the Company. The executive officers were appointed by the Board of Directors and serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors. Name: Age: Position: Ernest A. Bates, M.D. 76 Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer Craig K. Tagawa 59 Senior Vice President - Chief Operating and Financial Officer Ernest R. Bates 46 Vice President of Sales and Business Development 12 Ernest A. Bates, M.D., founder of the Company, has served in the positions listed above since the incorporation of the Company. A board-certified neurosurgeon, Dr. Bates is Emeritus Vice Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Johns Hopkins University and serves on the Board of Visitors of the Johns Hopkins Medical Center and the Johns Hopkins Neurosurgery Advisory Board. He serves on the boards of the University of Rochester, Shared Imaging and FasterCures. Dr. Bates was appointed to the California Commission for Jobs and Economic Growth and the Magistrate Judge Merit Selection Panel. From 1981-1987 he was a member of the Board of Governors of the California Community Colleges, and he served on the California High Speed Rail Authority from 1997 to 2003. Dr. Bates is a member of the Board of Overseers at the University of California, San Francisco, School of Nursing. Dr. Bates is a Partner in Black Coyote Chateau Wines, LLC. He is a graduate of the School of Arts and Sciences of the Johns Hopkins University, and he earned his medical degree at the University of Rochester School of Medicine and Dentistry. Craig K. Tagawa has served as Chief Operating Officer since February 1999 in addition to serving as Chief Financial Officer since May 1996. Mr. Tagawa also served as Chief Financial Officer from January 1992 through October 1995. Previously a Vice President in such capacity, Mr. Tagawa became a Senior Vice President on February 28, 1993. He is also the Chief Executive Officer of GKF. From September 1988 through January 1992, Mr. Tagawa served in various positions with the Company. He is a former Chair of the Industrial Policy Advisory Committee of the Engineering Research Center for Computer-Integrated Surgical Systems and Technology at The Johns Hopkins University. He received his undergraduate degree from the University of California at Berkeley and his M.B.A. from Cornell University. Ernest R. Bates joined the Company in January 2007 as Vice President of Sales and Business Development. He was on the Board of Directors of the Company from 2004 through February 2007. Prior to joining the Company, he had been Managing Director, Institutional Fixed Income Sales of HSBC Securities (USA), Inc. since 2003. Mr. Bates has also served as Managing Director, Head of Asian Product for HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. from 1999 to 2003. From 1993 through 1999, Mr. Bates held various positions with Merrill Lynch, last serving as Vice President, European Syndicate for Merrill Lynch International. He received his undergraduate degree from Brown University and a M.B.A. degree from The Wharton Business School. Ernest R. Bates is the son of Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer Dr. Ernest A. Bates. AVAILABLE INFORMATION Our Internet address is www.ashs.com. We make available free of charge, through our Internet website under the “Investor Center” tab in the “Corporate” section, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The information contained on our Internet website is not part of this document. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this report, the following factors could affect our future business, results of operations, cash flows or financial position, and could cause future results to differ materially from those expressed in any of the forward-looking statements contained in this report. The Federal Reimbursement Rate for Gamma Knife Treatments Has Been Substantially Reduced Recent legislation includes a provision that reduces Medicare’s reimbursement rate for Gamma Knife services by nearly 60% (from $7,910 to $3,300 per treatment session) beginning April 1, 2013. This will reduce the revenues under the Company’s five contracts where payments are based on reimbursement rates to its medical center customers. It may also cause the 12 medical centers with fixed fee contracts to seek to restructure these arrangements to reflect the decreased reimbursement revenues to be received by the hospitals. These changes will adversely affect the Company’s Gamma Knife revenues and overall financial results in the future. The Company is seeking a legislative solution, but there can be no assurance these efforts will result in a delay or elimination of the decrease in reimbursement rates. 13 The Company’s Capital Investment at Each Site is Substantial Each radiosurgical or radiation therapy device requires a substantial capital investment. In some cases, we contribute additional funds for capital costs and/or annual operating and equipment related costs such as marketing, maintenance, insurance and property taxes. Due to the structure of our contracts with medical centers, there can be no assurance that these costs will be fully recovered or that we will earn a satisfactory return on our investment. The Market for the Gamma Knife is Limited There is a limited market for the Gamma Knife, and the market in the United States may be mature. The Company has begun operation at only six new Gamma Knife sites in the United States since 2004. Due to the substantial costs of acquiring a Gamma Knife unit, we must identify medical centers that possess neurosurgery and radiation oncology departments capable of performing a large number of Gamma Knife procedures. As of December 31, 2012, there were approximately 131 operating Gamma Knife units in the United States, of which 17 units were owned by us. There are more than 320 units in operation worldwide, and the Company owned two operational international units as of December 31, 2011. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in placing additional units at any sites in the future. The Company’s existing contracts with its customers are fixed in length and there can be no assurance that the customers will wish to extend the contract beyond the end of the term. The Company Has a High Level of Debt The Company’s business is capital intensive. The Company finances an IGRT system through ASHS and its Gamma Knife units and another IGRT system through its GKF subsidiary. The amounts financed through GKF have been generally non-recourse to ASHS. The Company’s combined long term debt and present value of capital leases totals $34,684,000 as of December 31, 2012 and is collateralized by the Gamma Knife and IGRT equipment and other assets, including accounts receivable and future proceeds from any contract between the Company and any end user of the financed equipment. This high level of debt may adversely affect the Company’s ability to secure additional credit in the future, and as a result may affect operations and profitability. If default on debt occurs in the future, the Company’s creditors would have the ability to accelerate the defaulted loan, to seize the Gamma Knife unit or other equipment with respect to which default has occurred, and to apply any collateral they may have at the time to cure the default. The Company also has a line of credit with a bank, against which it has drawn $8,550,000 as of December 31, 2012. A Small Number of Customers Account for a Major Portion of our Revenues A limited number of customers have historically accounted for a substantial portion of the Company’s total revenue, and the Company expects such customer concentration to continue for the foreseeable future. For example, in 2012, two customers each accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s revenue, and six customers in total accounted for more than 50% of the Company’s revenue. The loss of a significant customer or a significant decline in the business from the Company’s largest customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. The Market for the Company’s Services is Competitive The Company estimates that there are three other companies that actively provide alternative, non-conventional Gamma Knife financing to potential customers. We believe there are no competitor companies that currently have more than six Gamma Knife units in operation. The Company’s relationship with Elekta, the manufacturer of the Leksell Gamma Knife unit, is non-exclusive, and in the past the Company has lost sales to customers that chose to purchase a Gamma Knife unit directly from Elekta. In addition, the Company may continue to lose future sales to such customers and may also lose future sales to its competitors. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to successfully compete against others in placing future units. There are Alternatives to the Gamma Knife Other radiosurgery devices and conventional neurosurgery compete against the Gamma Knife. Each of the medical centers targeted by the Company could decide to acquire another radiosurgery device instead of a Gamma Knife. In addition, neurosurgeons who are primarily responsible for referring patients for Gamma Knife surgery may not be willing to make such referrals for various reasons, instead opting for invasive surgery. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to secure a sufficient number of future sites or Gamma Knife procedures to sustain its profitability and growth. 14 International Operations The Company has made an effort to expand its operations internationally and has active or projected operations in Turkey, Peru and Brazil. International operations can be subject to exchange rate volatility which could have an adverse effect on our financial results and cash flows. For instance, the debt for our Turkish operation is denominated in U.S. dollars, but the funds generated to pay the debt are in Turkish lira, so our ability to repay the debt is subject to exchange rate exposure. In addition, international operations can be subject to legal and regulatory uncertainty and political and economic instability, which could result in problems asserting property or contractual rights, potential tariffs, increased compliance costs, increased regulatory scrutiny, potential adverse tax consequences, the inability to repatriate funds to the United States, and the Company’s inability to operate in those locations. New Technology and Products Could Result in Equipment Obsolescence There is constant change and innovation in the market for highly sophisticated medical equipment. New and improved medical equipment can be introduced that could make the Gamma Knife technology obsolete and that would make it uneconomical to operate. During 2000, Elekta introduced an upgraded Gamma Knife which cost approximately $3.6 million plus applicable tax and duties. This upgrade includes an Automatic Positioning System™ (“APS”), and therefore involves less health care provider intervention. In early 2005, Elekta introduced a new upgrade, the Gamma Knife Model 4C (“Model 4C”). The cost to upgrade existing units to the Model 4C with APS is estimated to be approximately $200,000 to $1,000,000, depending on the current Gamma Knife configuration. In 2006 Elekta introduced a new model of the Gamma Knife, the Perfexion, which costs approximately $4.5 million plus applicable taxes and duties. The Perfexion can perform procedures faster than previous Gamma Knife models and it provides the additional ability to perform procedures on areas of the cervical spine. Existing models of the Gamma Knife are not upgradeable to the Perfexion model. As of March 1, 2013, eleven of the Company’s Gamma Knife units are Perfexion models; of the Company’s remaining Gamma Knife units, five are Model 4C with APS and five are upgradeable to more advanced Model 4C units. The failure to acquire or use new technology and products could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, there are constant advances made in radiation therapy equipment. The Company purchased IGRT and CT Simulator systems in 2006 with a list price of approximately $8,300,000. As in the Gamma Knife business, new and improved IGRT equipment can be introduced that could make the existing technology obsolete and that would make it uneconomical to operate. The Company Has Invested in a Proton Beam Business that is Developmental and Unproven We have committed a substantial amount of our financial resources to next-generation proton beam technology. Although FDA approval has been obtained for the PBRT system being developed by Mevion, it is not yet commercially proven. We have committed to purchase three Mevion S250 systems, and have already made deposits of $3,000,000 towards this commitment. There can be no assurance that we will recover this investment or future investments, or our $2,687,000 minority investment in Mevion. The Trading Volume of Our Common Stock is Low Although our common stock is listed on the NYSE Amex Exchange, our common stock has experienced low trading volume, both historically and recently. Reported average daily trading volume in our common stock for the three-month period ended December 31, 2012 was approximately 3,000 shares. There is no reason to think that a more active trading market in our common stock will develop in the future. Limited trading volume subjects our common stock to greater price volatility and may make it difficult for you to sell your shares in a quantity or at a price that is attractive to you. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 15 