risk factors, such as lipids and lipoproteins, in both animal and human studies. A poster presentation entitled "Glucose Uptake Of Chromium Picolinate, Chromium Polynicotinate And Niacin" was presented at a meeting of the Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology. This presentation reported on chromium picolinate enhancement of glucose uptake in skeletal muscle cells. A poster presentation on "Chromium Picolinate Increases Skeletal Muscle PI3 Kinase Activity in Obese, Hyperinsulinemic JCR:LA Corpulent Rats" was presented at the 63rd annual meeting and scientific sessions of the American Diabetes Association. The presentation reported a mechanism of action by which chromium picolinate enhances insulin activity. Studies Completed in 2002: Chromax The Company gave a $110,000 research grant and supplied Chromax to Duke University to study the "Effectiveness of Chromium Picolinate in Atypical Depression: A Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trial." Results from this study showed that chromium picolinate helped reduce depression markers. In this study, seventy percent (70%) of chromium picolinate group and zero percent (0%) of placebo group responded to treatment. This study was published in Biological Psychiatry. Diachrome The Company gave a $200,000 research grant and supplied Diachrome to the Chicago Center for Clinical Research to conduct a "Study On Chromium With Biotin Decreases Coronary Risk Lipids And Lipoproteins In People With Type 2 Diabetes Ingesting Moderate Carbohydrate Nutritional Beverages." Results from this trial showed that chromium picolinate and biotin can significantly reduce elevations in blood glucose levels and symptoms of fatigue in people with type 2 diabetes that are consuming a carbohydrate-containing beverage. These findings were presented at the Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology, and American College of Nutrition. Presentations and Publications in 2002 A paper entitled "Oral Chromium Picolinate Improves Carbohydrate And Lipid Metabolism And Enhances Skeletal Muscle Glut-4 Translocation In Obese, Hyperinsulinemic (JCR-LA Corpulent) Rats" was published in The Journal of Nutrition 2002. This article reported that chromium picolinate helps in treatment of the insulin resistance syndrome. Chromium picolinate supplementation was also shown to enhance insulin sensitivity, glucose metabolism and blood lipids. A poster presentation entitled "Antimutagenic Activity Of Chromium Picolinate In The Salmonella Assay" was presented at XIV World Congress of Pharmacology. The presentation reported that chromium picolinate is non-mutagenic. Governmental Regulation The U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") regulates the labeling and marketing of the Company's dietary supplements under the Dietary Supplement and Health Education Act ("DSHEA"). Under DSHEA, dietary supplements that were first marketed as dietary supplements after October 1994 require safety approval by the FDA. The Company's products did not require FDA safety approval because they were marketed as dietary supplements prior to October 1994. See "The Company's Existing Ingredient Business" for further information on the safety of the Company's products. Under DSHEA, the Company is required to submit for FDA approval claims regarding the effect of its dietary supplements on the structure or function of the body. DSHEA also requires an FDA approval for claims that relate dietary supplements to disease prevention (so-called "health claims"). 14 To enhance its market applications, the Company elected to seek FDA approval for health claims. On August 25, 2005, the FDA issued a favorable response, recognizing chromium picolinate as a safe nutritional supplement that may reduce the risk of insulin resistance and possibly type 2 diabetes. The FDA declined to permit other qualified health claims that were proposed by the Company. The FDA concluded: "One small study suggests that chromium picolinate may reduce the risk of insulin resistance, and therefore possibly may reduce the risk of type 2 diabetes. FDA concludes, however, that the existence of such a relationship between chromium picolinate and either insulin resistance or type 2 diabetes is highly uncertain." The FDA also concluded that chromium picolinate is safe stating the following: "FDA concludes at this time, under the preliminary requirements of 21 CRF 101.14(b)(3)(ii), that the use of chromium picolinate in dietary supplements as described in the [approved] qualified health claims discussed in section IV is safe and lawful under the applicable provisions of the Act." The Federal Trade Commission ("FTC") regulates product-advertising claims and requires that claims be supported by competent and reliable scientific evidence. Prior to the Company's acquisition of a California limited partnership called Nutrition 21 ("Nutrition 21 LP"), the FTC opened an inquiry into certain of the claims that Nutrition 21 LP was making for chromium picolinate. The inquiry was terminated by Nutrition 21 LP and the FTC entering into a consent decree that requires that claims be supported by competent and reliable scientific evidence. After the Company acquired Nutrition 21 LP, the Company undertook new clinical studies to support the claims it intended to make for its products. The FTC has subsequently audited the Company's chromium picolinate advertising and has not found either a lack of competent and reliable scientific evidence or a failure by the Company to comply with the consent decree. The FTC continues to monitor the Company's advertising and could limit its advertising in ways that could make marketing its products more difficult or result in lost sales. Proprietary Rights Trademarks Chromax, Diachrome, Selenomax, SelenoPure, Zinmax, Zenergen, and Magnemax are among the more well known trademarks owned by Nutrition 21: Chromax for chromium picolinate; Diachrome for chromium picolinate and biotin; Selenomax for high selenium yeast; SelenoPure for yeast-free selenium; Zinmax for zinc picolinate; Zenergen for chromium picolinate and conjugated linoleic acid; and Magnemax for manganese picolinate. Nutrition Patents The Company presently has 37 issued US patents and 12 pending US patent applications with foreign equivalents covering novel compositions and therapies directed towards significant health conditions such as cardiovascular disease, depression, polycystic ovary syndrome, both type 1 and type 2 diabetes, and sports nutrition. 15 Of these patents, 26 U.S. patents and various foreign patents relate to chromium, including composition of matter patents for novel chromium picolinate complexes and their uses. Three of these patents relate to the accepted essential nutritional uses of chromium picolinate for glucose control, for managing cholesterol, and for increasing lean body mass and reducing body fat, and are in force through 2009. Patents for improved chromium picolinate complexes containing combinations of chromium and various nutrients for enhancing the benefits of chromium picolinate, are in force into the year 2017. More recently, the Company has secured patent rights to the uses of all forms of chromium in the treatment of depression and other mood disorders, rights that are in force through 2018. The pending applications build upon the Company's expertise in technology areas such as nutritional mineral supplements, and are directed towards the synergistic effects of combining chromium with compounds such as biotin, alpha lipoic acid, conjugated linoleic acid (CLA), and CLA isomers. These include issued and pending patent applications covering the positive effects of chromium and biotin on type 2 diabetes. Outside of the chromium area, the Company continues to file patent applications in the area of arginine silicate, a patented compound that has shown promise in therapies for bone and joint health, cardiovascular disease, and glucose metabolism. The Company maintains non-disclosure safeguards, including confidentiality agreements, with employees and certain consultants. There can be no assurance, however, that others may not independently develop similar technology or that secrecy will not be breached despite any agreements that exist. Although the Company holds exclusive rights to United States patents for the nutritional uses for which chromium picolinate is sold, the Company is often faced with competition from companies, including importers, that disregard its patent rights. These companies take calculated risks that the Company will not sue to enforce its patent rights against them. The Company determines whether to file suit against an infringer by taking into consideration an estimate of infringing sales and the cost of patent enforcement. While there is no guarantee that the Company will be able to successfully enforce its patent rights against these competitors, the Company continues to monitor industry practices. The Company has initiated several patent infringement cases that it subsequently settled. In 2003, the Company settled a patent dispute with Lonza Inc., in which Lonza agreed to use the Company's chromium picolinate and become licensed under the Company's glucose control patents for marketing Lonza's proprietary combination of carnitine and chromium picolinate for swine feed applications. No other rights were granted to Lonza to sell chromium picolinate, alone or in other combinations, for human or other animal applications. In 2005, the Company initiated a patent infringement case against General Nutrition Corporation for infringement of three chromium method of use patents. The case is venued in the Eastern District of Texas, Tyler Division. Pharmaceutical Patents The Company owns more than 200 patents relating to, among other things, the expression and production of proteins by recombinant Bacillus strains; plasmid vectors and methods of construction; expression and production of recombinant lysostaphin; novel bacteriocin compositions and their use as broad spectrum bactericides; the use of bacteriocin compositions to treat bovine mastitis; the use of bacteriocin compositions in oral healthcare; the use of bacteriocin compositions on skin for healthcare and hygiene; and the use of bacteriocin compositions in gastrointestinal healthcare. These patents are licensed to Biosynexus Incorporated, and ImmuCell Corporation as set forth under "Pharmaceutical Products Licensed to Third Parties." The Company maintains trade secret protection for bacterial strains, technical know-how, and other information it considers proprietary and beneficial for the manufacture, use, regulatory approval, and marketing of the Company's products. 16 Competition In considering its competitive position, the Company distinguishes between its existing ingredients business, on the one hand, and its prospective therapeutic branded products, on the other hand. The Company has a relatively strong position for its current chromium sales where it believes that it has an approximately 80% share of the market for stand alone sales, and it has a 15% market share for sales of chromium into multi-ingredient products, based on SPINS and IRI data reporting retail sales of chromium products. The Company's major competitors in the chromium industry are Albion Labs, Kelatron, and InterHealth Nutraceuticals Inc. The Company's proposed consumer health branded business will confront many large established companies in a huge industry that serves the diabetes therapeutics management market. The Company's success in this arena will in large part depend on its ability to obtain a scientific consensus that its supplement offer benefits that are competitive with the numerous companies that participate in this business. The nutritional product industry and the related drug industries are, of course, intensely competitive. The great majority of these competitors have financial and technical resources as well as production and marketing capabilities substantially greater than the Company. In addition, many competitors have significantly greater experience in the development and testing of new or improved products. Supply and Manufacturing The Company has a manufacturing agreement with a third party for the manufacture of the Company's principal products. There are numerous sources of supply for the raw materials that the Company's manufacturers use to manufacture the Company's products. The Company has never experienced a shortage of ingredient products. All of our suppliers are GMP (Good Manufacturing Practices) compliant as published by the U.S. Pharmacopeia for nutritional supplements as well as the proposed FDA GMPs for nutritional supplements. GMP is a system of procedures and documentation written or analytical, to assure our products contain the appropriate strength, quality, composition and purity to which it purports to have. The Company believes that it has adequate inventory to accommodate a suspension in the manufacture of any of its products by its current manufacturers, and that it could in any event resort to other manufacturers with minimal disruption. The Company plans to continue to outsource the manufacturing and packaging needs as it expands its business to include its marketing and distribution of branded therapeutic supplements. Employees As of June 30, 2005, the Company had 34 full-time employees, of whom 2 were executive employees, 10 were administrative, 14 were engaged in marketing and sales, and 8 were involved in research, process and product development, and manufacturing. The Company does not have a collective bargaining agreement with any of its personnel and considers its relationship with its employees to be satisfactory. 