Item 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in the Company involves the following risks, among others: Financial Performance Risks We have not been profitable for the last six fiscal years. We had net losses of $19.148 million, $10.317 million, $7.044 million, $5.901 million, $10.506 million and $6.011 million for the fiscal years ended on June 30, 2007, 2006, 2005, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. As of June 30, 2007, our accumulated losses aggregated approximately $90.455 million. As a result we have been required periodically to rely on offerings of securities to fund cash shortfalls in our business. We will likely continue to be unprofitable in the future should we fail to increase our revenues significantly. In the fiscal years ending June 30, 2008 and 2009, respectively, we expect to incur approximately $0.5 million and $0.3 million of expenses for accretion of debt discount and amortization of debt issuance costs on Series I preferred stock that was issued in fiscal year 2005. The issuance of Series J preferred stock in September, 2007 may increase these expenses. Also, the issuance of additional securities other than common stock may increase these expenses. We may use significant cash in our operations and may need to raise additional funds. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007 cash used in operations was $10.3 million. To fund any negative cash flow and to support the marketing and other expenses we envision, we may need to raise funds. There is no assurance that additional funds will be available on terms favorable to the Company and its shareholders, or at all. The Series J preferred stock limits our ability to incur indebtedness and to issue additional preferred stock. Business Strategy and Operational Risks As a part of our business strategy, we have made and may continue to make acquisitions. These acquisitions could disrupt our operations and harm our operating results. An element of our strategy includes expanding our product offerings, gaining shelf-space and gaining access to new skills and other resources through strategic acquisitions when attractive opportunities arise. Acquiring additional businesses and the implementation of other elements of our business strategy are subject to various risks and uncertainties. Some of these factors are within our control and some are outside our control. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the following: 26 o Any acquisition may result in significant expenditures of cash, stock and/or management resources, o Acquired businesses may not perform in accordance with expectations, o We may encounter difficulties and costs with the integration of the acquired businesses, o Management’s attention may be diverted from other aspects of our business, o We may face unexpected problems entering geographic and product markets in which we have limited or no direct prior experience, o We may lose key employees of acquired or existing businesses, o We may incur liabilities and claims arising out of acquired businesses, and o We may incur indebtedness or issue additional capital stock which could be dilutive to holders of our common stock. By way of example, our acquisition of Iceland Health, Inc. has materially increased the size of our business and has raised challenges that could adversely affect our goal to achieve profitable operations. We acquired Iceland Health, Inc. on August 25, 2006. This acquisition permitted us to enter the business of offering omega-3 products into the consumer market. The addition of the Iceland Health products substantially increased our size, by contributing approximately 52% of our revenues in the two quarters following the acquisition. Iceland Health uses distribution channels (principally direct response rather than through mass retailers) which differ from those of our traditional product lines and with which our management had little experience. We have also needed to bolster the management resources of Iceland Health. As a result, this acquisition has contributed to our losses. We cannot assure you that we will be able to capitalize on Iceland Health’s products lines and achieve profitability in this business or in our company as a whole. Because a significant portion our sales is to a small number of retail customers, we are dependent to a large degree upon these customers and their ability to successfully sell our products. In fiscal 2007, two of our mass merchandise retail customers together accounted for approximately 14% of our total revenues, and ten of our mass merchandise retail customers represented approximately 18% of our total revenues. Consistent with industry practice, we do not operate under a long-term written supply contract with our mass merchandise retail customers. Our business would materially suffer if we lost any major mass merchandise retail customer or if our business with a major mass merchandise retail customer were to decrease significantly. The success of our retail distribution business is dependent, to a large degree, on the positioning of our products by our mass merchandise retail customers and on the support they provide for our products, which are outside our control and in turn depend in large part on the level of sales of our products. A significant amount of marketing expenditures is required in order to generate sales of our products, and we cannot be certain if our marketing initiatives will be successful or if we will be able to raise these funds. Both our mass merchandise retail distribution business and our Iceland Health direct response marketing business require substantial expenditures to generate sales. To succeed in our arrangements with mass merchandise retailers we need to launch and maintain successful marketing campaigns to encourage consumers to purchase branded products stocked by these retailers. Our failure to generate such demand could cause retailers to terminate their relationship with us. Our arrangements with mass retailers are terminable by them on notice. 27 Our direct response marketing business requires significant expenditure for the purchase of media advertising and related matters in advance of sales. Growth in our sales of Iceland Health omega-3 products will be impaired if we do not successfully introduce these products into our mass distribution channels with the support of significant marketing expenditures. Our marketing and related expenses aggregated approximately 80% of total revenues in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007. We rely on a limited number of products for the majority of our sales and any reduction in the demand for or availability of these products would have an adverse effect on our sales. Our significant products are limited to Chromax, Diachrome, Iceland Health Omega-3 and Iceland Health Joint Relief, and we are in the process of launching Advanced Memory Formula, a product for the support of cognitive function. This narrow line of products puts us at risk of being affected adversely should sales of even a small number of products fail to grow as expected or decline, or should new products not be accepted in the marketplace either initially or not at all. Successful growth of our business depends on our ability to develop and market new products on a continuous basis. We rely on outside suppliers to formulate, manufacture and package our products. Because we do not have long-term agreements with any of our suppliers other than our manufacturer in Iceland, our business could be disrupted if our relationship with a supplier is terminated or curtailed, or if a supplier suffers financial difficulties or otherwise fails to supply us on a timely basis and at favorable prices. We acquire omega-3 fatty acids that are sold as Iceland Health Omega 3 from a manufacturer in Iceland under an agreement that gives us the exclusive right until 2015 to import omega -3 fatty acids from this manufacturer and to distribute this product in the United States. These products are identified on packaging as “coming from Iceland.” We purchase omega-3 fatty acids for our Iceland Health Joint Relief product from various suppliers in the United States, on a purchase order basis, for sale in packaging that does not identify the product as “coming from Iceland.” Should our manufacturer in Iceland fail to adequately supply us at any time, we believe that we can with some disruption purchase additional omega-3 fatty acids from our current or other suppliers in the US, but we may be adversely affected by our inability to identify these products as “coming from Iceland.” We purchase our chromium and related compounds on a purchase order basis from several suppliers, but our business may nevertheless be disrupted if we are required to change a significant supplier. The failure of third party call center operators to effectively handle customer calls could adversely affect our business. We rely on outside contractors for the call center requirements of our direct response marketing business, and we are dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient operation of these facilities. Should we experience unacceptable numbers of uncompleted calls we will need to slow our marketing of Iceland Health products and to commit additional resources to better train our call center suppliers. Several researchers have questioned the safety of chromium picolinate, and we may be liable for damages if our products are proven to have harmful side effects. In 1995 and 2002, a research group headed by Dianne Stearns, Ph.D. (University of Dartmouth College and Northern Arizona University) administered chromium picolinate in a laboratory to Chinese hamster ovary cell lines and reported safety concerns. Also, in 2003, a research group headed by John Vincent, Ph.D. (University of Alabama) administered chromium picolinate to fruit flies and reported safety concerns. See “The Chromium Franchise” for recent safety announcements issued by the United States' Food & Drug Administration (FDA) and the United Kingdom's Food Standards Agency (FSA). However, the Stearns and Vincent studies can nevertheless reduce the marketability of our products. In addition, if in fact safety concerns are well founded for humans, our viability will be affected since a large portion of our revenues is derived from the sale of chromium picolinate for inclusion in nutritional supplement products. 28 Harmful effects could also result in legal action against us. We have $5.0 million of product liability insurance for the products we currently market and intend to obtain product liability insurance for products we will market in the future. We may not succeed in obtaining additional insurance or obtaining insurance sufficient to cover all possible liabilities. If we are unable to retain key personnel, our ability to manage our business effectively and continue our growth could be negatively impacted. Paul Intlekofer, our Chief Executive Officer, and other key management employees are primarily responsible for our day-to-day operations, and we believe our success depends in part on our ability to retain them and to continue to attract additional qualified individuals to our management team. We do not have an employment agreement with any of our key management employees. The loss or limitation of the services of any of our key management employees or the inability to attract additional qualified management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We have no proprietary rights in products that we import from Iceland. The Iceland manufacturer of the omega-3 fatty acids that we sell as “coming from Iceland” uses a patented distillation process to remove toxins and dioxins from the fish oils from which the product is derived. However, the product itself is not patented, nor do we have the right to sue persons who infringe on the manufacturer’s distillation process. Further, the product competes with omega-3 fatty acids that are produced with competitive distillation processes or that are derived directly from algae in a process that does not need to remove toxins and dioxin. If we do not timely take action to overcome the effect of the expiration of our patent rights, or if we do not enforce our patent rights, or are unsuccessful enforcing our patent rights, we will face increased competition. Our significant patents consist of: l three method of use patents that expire in 2009 that cover the use in low doses of chromium picolinate for improving body composition, glucose stabilization and cholesterol maintenance, l another method of use patent that expires in 2015 and covers the use of high doses of chromium picolinate for glucose stabilization, l four patents that expire in 2017 and cover the use of chromium for relieving the symptoms of depression and pre-menstrual syndrome, l two composition of matter patents that expire in 2017 and cover chromium picolinate and biotin compositions and their use for stabilizing serum glucose, l one composition of matter patent that expires in 2017 and covers a composition of chromium picolinate and other ingredients and its use for improving body composition, and l 12 other chromium-based patents that expire in 2017, 2018 and 2021 that cover a range of compositions and uses for which we do not offer products. Our ingredients business accounted for approximately 18% of our revenues in the fiscal year 2007 and, since our ingredients are not branded, this business depends almost entirely on the strength of our patents. Our branded products that are based on chromium picolinate or other patented compounds also benefit from patent protection. We will be materially and adversely affected if, by the expiration date of significant patents, which is 2009 for our patents for low dose uses of chromium picolinate, we cannot maintain prior revenue levels by reducing prices and increasing unit sales or by developing other formulations of chromium picolinate products to replace any reduction in sales. 29 We have also applied for 11 other United States patents relating to improving insulin sensitivity, improving cognitive function, improving immune function, reducing hyperglycemia, and treatment of diabetes, dyslipidemia, hypercholesterolemia and other diseases. If we do not obtain patent protection, our ability to develop and market products for these disease states will be adversely affected, since we will be subject to competition on the products we develop. In addition, we expect to incur significant expense for the development and marketing of our cognitive product and we may be adversely affected should our application for a patent for our new cognitive product not be approved. Despite past successes in obtaining patent protection, there is no guarantee a patent will be granted in each instance. Composition of matter patents protect the manufacture, sale or use of a product. Method of use patents cover the use of a product. Method of use patents are more difficult to enforce since the actual infringer is the person that takes the chromium picolinate for the patented use. In order to enforce a method of use patent against manufacturers or sellers, the patent owner must prove contributory or induced infringement, which is more difficult than enforcing a composition of matter patent. We are from time to time faced with competition from companies, including importers, that disregard our patent rights. Companies frequently take calculated risks that we will not sue to enforce our patent rights against them and that we will not prevail in any suits that we do bring. In considering whether to bring a suit, we take into account the legal costs of enforcing the patent. Competitors who disregard our patent rights can undercut our prices because they avoid paying for the technology in their products. If we fail to protect our trademarks, then our ability to compete could be negatively affected, which would harm our financial condition and operating results. The market for our products depends to a significant extent upon the goodwill associated with our Chromax, Diachrome and Iceland Health trademarks. We own the material trademark rights used in connection with the packaging, marketing and distribution of our products in the markets where those products are sold. Therefore, trademark protection is important to our business. Although most of our trademarks are registered in the United States and in certain foreign countries in which we operate, we may not be successful in asserting trademark protection. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The loss or infringement of our trademarks could impair the goodwill associated with our brands and harm our reputation, which would harm our financial condition and operating results. Industry and Market Risks We are highly dependent upon consumers’ perception of the safety and quality of our products as well as similar products distributed by other companies in our industry, and adverse publicity and negative public perception regarding particular ingredients or products or our industry in general could limit our ability to increase revenue and grow our business. Decisions about purchasing made by consumers of our products may be affected by adverse publicity or negative public perception regarding particular ingredients or products or our industry in general. This negative public perception may include publicity regarding the legality or quality of particular ingredients or products in general or of other companies or our products or ingredients specifically. Negative public perception may also arise from regulatory investigations, regardless of whether those investigations involve us. We are highly dependent upon consumers’ perception of the safety and quality of our products as well as similar products distributed by other companies. Thus, the mere publication of reports asserting that such products may be harmful could have a material adverse effect on us, regardless of whether these reports are scientifically supported. Publicity related to nutritional supplements may also result in increased regulatory scrutiny of our industry. Adverse publicity may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance of future favorable scientific results and media attention or of the absence of unfavorable or inconsistent findings. 30 Changes in consumer preferences and discretionary spending could negatively impact our operating results. Our business is subject to changing consumer trends and preferences. Our continued success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and respond to these changes, and we may not respond in a timely or commercially appropriate manner to such changes. Furthermore, the nutritional supplement industry is characterized by rapid and frequent changes in demand for products and new product introductions and enhancements. Our failure to accurately predict these trends could negatively impact consumer opinion of our products, which in turn could harm our customer and distributor relationships and cause the loss of sales. We face intense competition from competitors that are larger, more established and possess greater resources than we do, and if we are unable to compete effectively, we may be unable to grow our market share in order to become profitable. Numerous manufacturers and retailers compete actively for consumers. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete in this intensely competitive environment. In addition, nutritional supplements can be purchased in a wide variety of channels of distribution. These channels include mass market retail stores and the Internet. Because these markets generally have low barriers to entry, additional competitors could enter the market at any time. Private label products of our customers also provide competition to our products. Additional national or international companies may seek in the future to enter or to increase their presence in the health foods channel or the vitamin, mineral supplement market. Increased competition in either or both could have a material adverse effect on us. In our ingredients business, we believe that we have a relatively strong position for existing stand-alone chromium sales, and we have a relatively small market share for sales of chromium into multi-ingredient products. Our major competitor in this business is InterHealth Nutraceuticals Inc. which is a privately held company that markets chromium polynicotinate. Our therapeutic branded business confronts many large established companies in a huge industry that serves the diabetes therapeutic market. The market is served by the major pharmaceutical companies that offer various medications to diabetics. Our success in this arena will in large part depend on our obtaining a scientific consensus that our supplement offers benefits that are competitive with the numerous products offered by companies that participate in this business. Our omega-3 business is highly competitive. As we enter retail distribution channels with our omega-3 products, we will be entering an intensely competitive market with large established companies and brands such as Nordic Naturals, which offers omega-3 fatty acids that have potency and purity similar to our products, as well as Bumble Bee Seafoods and Puritan's Pride. Our product sales may decline due to the introduction by others of products that have competitive advantages. We are not aware of any studies that compare the relative advantages or disadvantages of our products as against other competitive products. Research supporting competitors' claims in the nutrition supplement market is not subject to mandatory review by any government agency. Therefore, new products can appear and be brought to market rapidly and with little advance notice. Competitive products may appear or be supported by new research before we are able to respond with new product development or countervailing research. If competing products are developed that customers believe are superior to our products, sales of our products could decline and our business would be harmed. Our products are subject to government regulation, which could limit or prevent the sale of our products. The manufacture, packaging, labeling, advertising, promotion, distribution and sale of our products are subject to regulation by numerous national and local governmental agencies in the United States and other countries. The primary regulatory bodies in the United States are the FDA and FTC. Failure to comply with these regulatory requirements may result in various types of penalties or fines. These include injunctions, product withdrawals, recalls, product seizures, fines and criminal prosecutions. Individual states also regulate nutritional supplements. A state may interpret claims or products presumptively valid under federal law as illegal under that state’s regulations. In markets outside the United States, we are usually required to obtain approvals, licenses or certifications from a country’s ministry of health or comparable agency, as well as labeling and packaging regulations, all of which vary from country to country. Approvals or licensing may be conditioned on reformulation of products or may be unavailable with respect to certain products or product ingredients. Any of these government agencies, as well as legislative bodies, can change existing regulations, or impose new ones, which could cause any of the following: 31 o requirements for the reformulation of certain or all products to meet new standards, o the recall or discontinuance of certain or all products, o additional record keeping, o expanded documentation of the properties of certain or all products, o expanded or different labeling, o adverse event tracking and reporting, and o additional scientific substantiation. Any or all of these requirements could have a material adverse effect on us. There can be no assurance that the regulatory environment in which we operate will not change or that such regulatory environment, or any specific action taken against us, will not result in a material adverse effect on us. U.S. government regulation currently affects the sale of our products. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration regulates the labeling and marketing of our dietary supplements under the Dietary Supplement and Health Education Act, also known as DSHEA. Under DSHEA, we are required to submit for FDA approval claims regarding the effect of our dietary supplements on the structure or function of the body. DSHEA also requires FDA approval for health claims that relate dietary supplements to disease prevention. Under DSHEA, within 30 days after first marketing a product, a company must submit to the FDA for review each claim (other than a qualified health claim) by the company that the product benefits bodily structure or function. If the FDA believes that a claim suggests the product is intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent a disease, it will reject the claim, usually within three months, in which case the company may no longer make the claim. To date, the FDA has not rejected any of our claims for benefit to bodily structure and function that are significant for the marketing of our products. Should the FDA in the future reject significant claims, we may be unable to interest consumers in purchasing our products. The FDA review of health claims requires significant scientific agreement that the totality of the data supports the claims that a product prevents disease. We applied for a qualified health claim on December 19, 2003, related to the prevention of diabetes. In August 2005, the FDA recognized chromium picolinate as a safe nutritional supplement that may reduce risk of insulin resistance and possibly type 2 diabetes, and concluded that there is credible evidence to support the following qualified health claim: One small study suggests that chromium picolinate may reduce the risk of insulin resistance, and therefore possibly may reduce the risk of type 2 diabetes. FDA concludes, however, that the existence of such a relationship between chromium picolinate and either insulin resistance or type 2 diabetes is highly uncertain.” The FDA declined to permit other qualified health claims that were proposed by the Company. 32 We are subject to a Federal Trade Commission consent agreement that may adversely affect our business. The Federal Trade Commission ("FTC") regulates product-advertising claims, and requires that claims be supported by competent and reliable scientific evidence. Prior to our acquisition of a California limited partnership called Nutrition 21 ("Nutrition 21 LP"), the FTC opened an inquiry into certain of the claims that Nutrition 21 LP was making for chromium picolinate. The inquiry was terminated by the FTC with Nutrition 21 LP entering into a consent agreement that requires Nutrition 21 LP to support its claims by competent and reliable scientific evidence. After we acquired Nutrition 21 LP in 1997, we undertook new clinical studies to support the claims we intended to make for our products. The FTC has subsequently audited our chromium picolinate advertising and has not found either a lack of competent and reliable scientific evidence or a failure to comply with the consent agreement. We are negotiating a settlement with QVC regarding liability for weight loss advertising claims that were made on QVC, Inc. televised shopping programs for Lite Bites, a product that we have since discontinued. We anticipate that any settlement would also resolve potential claims by the FTC against us for these advertising claims. The cost of any settlement has not been reserved for in our financial statements and any material settlement could have a significant impact on our operating results at the time the amount thereof becomes reasonably ascertainable. The FTC continues to monitor our advertising and could limit our advertising in ways that could make marketing our products more difficult or result in lost sales. Stock Market Risks The market price for our common stock may be particularly volatile, and our stockholders may be unable to resell their shares at a profit. The trading price of our common stock has been subject to wide fluctuations and may continue to fluctuate in the future in response to a variety of factors, including: o quarter-to-quarter variations in operating results, o material announcements by us or our competitors, o governmental regulatory action, o negative or positive publicity involving us or the nutritional supplement industry generally, o general economic downturns, o announcements by official or unofficial health and medical authorities, o consumer preferences generally, or o other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, the stock market has historically experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, which have particularly affected the market prices of many nutritional supplement companies and which have, in certain cases, not had a strong correlation to the operating performance of these companies. General economic conditions, such as recession or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations in the United States or abroad, could negatively affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, our operating results in future quarters may be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. If that were to occur, the price of our common stock would likely decline, perhaps substantially. The limited liquidity for our common stock could affect an investor’s ability to sell our shares at a satisfactory price. Our common stock is relatively illiquid. As of September 21, 2007, the Company had approximately 62.5 million shares of common stock outstanding. The average daily trading volume in the common stock during the prior 60 trading days ending on that date was approximately 202,841 shares. A more active public market for our common stock, however, may not develop, which would continue to adversely affect the trading price and liquidity of the common stock. Moreover, a thin trading market for the common stock causes the market price for the common stock to fluctuate significantly more than the stock market as a whole. Without a large float, our common stock is less liquid than the stock of companies with broader public ownership and, as a result, the trading prices of our common stock may be more volatile. 33 If we are unable to maintain a Nasdaq listing for our securities the liquidity of our stock will be reduced and investors may be unable to sell them, or may be able to sell them only at reduced prices. We are currently in compliance with Nasdaq's minimum $1.00 bid price requirement for continued listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market. If we fail to meet the $1.00 bid price requirement for at least 30 consecutive business days, we will be provided time to achieve compliance, generally up to one year provided we satisfy the criteria for continued listing other than the minimum bid price. The period during which our common stock will continue to be listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market may be extended further subject to certain conditions. Throughout this period we can regain compliance by maintaining a $1.00 per share bid price for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days. Should we not be in compliance at the end of this period, its common stock will be subject to delisting from the Nasdaq Capital Market. Under certain circumstances, to ensure that we can sustain long-term compliance, Nasdaq may require the closing bid price to equal or to exceed the $1.00 minimum bid price requirement for more than 10 consecutive business days before determining that a company complies with Nasdaq's minimum $1.00 bid price requirement. The liquidity of our common stock will be reduced if our securities fail to maintain a Nasdaq listing. Purchasers of our common stock would likely find it more difficult to sell our common stock, and the market value of our common stock would likely decline. In addition, if we fail to maintain a Nasdaq listing for our securities, and no other exclusion from the definition of a "penny stock" under the Exchange Act is available, then any broker engaging in a transaction in our securities would be required to provide any customer with a risk disclosure document, disclosure of market quotations, if any, disclosure of the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction, and monthly account statements showing the market values of our securities held in the customer's accounts. The bid and offer quotation and compensation information must be provided prior to effecting the transaction and must be contained on the customer's confirmation. If brokers become subject to the "penny stock" rules when engaging in transactions in our securities, they would become less willing to engage in these transactions, which will make it more difficult for purchasers of our common stock to dispose of their shares. Should we fail to maintain our Nasdaq listing we may be required to redeem our Series J 8% convertible preferred stock, and should we then or thereafter not be listed on the Bulletin Board we may be required to redeem our Series I 6% Convertible Preferred Stock before maturity at the original issue price. Failure to remediate the material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. During the audit of our financial statements for the year ended June 30, 2007, our independent registered public accounting firm identified material weaknesses, regarding the company's independent review and knowledge of complex accounting areas (stock options; income taxes; (projections for impairment analysis). As defined by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board Auditing Standard No.5, a material weakness is a significant deficiency or a combination of deficiencies over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or the interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 