Item 1A. Risk Factors The following are what we believe to be the principal risks that could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies and prospects. Our business is concentrated in Northwest Florida. As a result, our long-term financial results are largely dependent on the economic growth of Northwest Florida. The economic growth of Northwest Florida, where most of our land is located, is an important factor in creating demand for our products and services. Two important factors in the economic growth of the region are the completion of significant infrastructure improvements and the creation of new jobs. The economic growth of Northwest Florida depends upon state and local governments, in combination with the private sector, to plan and complete significant infrastructure improvements in the region, such as new transportation hubs, roads, rail, pipeline, medical facilities and schools. The future economic growth of Northwest Florida and our financial results may be adversely affected if its infrastructure is not improved. There can be no assurance that new improvements will occur or that existing projects will be completed. Attracting companies offering high-quality jobs is a key factor in the economic growth of Northwest Florida. Northwest Florida has traditionally lagged behind the rest of Florida in economic growth, and as a result its residents have a lower per capita income than residents in other parts of the state. In order to improve the economy of the region, state and local governments, along with the private sector, must seek to attract large employers capable of paying high salaries to large numbers of new employees. State governments, particularly in the Southeast, and local governments within Florida compete intensely for new jobs. There can be no assurance that efforts to attract significant companies to our facilities in Northwest Florida will be successful. The future economic growth of Northwest Florida and our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition may be adversely affected if job growth is not achieved. We have significant operations and properties in Florida that could be materially and adversely affected by natural disasters, severe weather conditions or other significant disruptions. Our corporate headquarters and our properties are located in Florida, where major hurricanes have occurred. Because of its location between the Gulf of Mexico and the Atlantic Ocean, Florida is particularly susceptible to the occurrence of hurricanes. Depending on where any particular hurricane makes landfall, our developments in Florida, especially our coastal properties in Northwest Florida, could experience significant, if not catastrophic, damage. Such damage could materially delay sales in affected communities or could lessen demand for products in those communities. Damage could also disrupt our resort and vacation rental business if there are extensive repairs to the facilities or lessen demand as a vacation destination. If our corporate headquarters facility is damaged or destroyed, we may have difficulty performing certain corporate and operational functions. In addition to hurricanes, the occurrence of other natural disasters and climate conditions in Florida, such as tornadoes, floods, fires, unusually heavy or prolonged rain, droughts and heat waves, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to develop and sell properties or realize income from our projects. The occurrence of these natural disasters could also have a material adverse effect on our forestry business, if timber inventory is destroyed or unable to be harvested. Furthermore, an increase in sea levels due to long-term global warming could have a material adverse effect on our coastal properties and forestry business. The occurrence of natural disasters and the threat of adverse climate changes could also have a long-term negative effect on the attractiveness of Florida as a location for resort, seasonal and/or primary residences and as a location for new employers that can create high-quality jobs needed to spur growth in Northwest Florida. 6 Table of Contents Additionally, we are susceptible to manmade disasters or disruptions, such as oil spills like the Deepwater Horizon oil spill, acts of terrorism, power outages and communications failures. If a hurricane, natural disaster or other significant disruption occurs, we may experience disruptions to our operations and properties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Our insurance coverage on our properties may be inadequate to cover any losses we may incur. We maintain insurance on our property, including property, liability, fire, flood and extended coverage. However, there are certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as hurricanes and floods or acts of war or terrorism that may be uninsurable or not economically insurable. We use our discretion when determining amounts, coverage limits and deductibles for insurance. These terms are determined based on retaining an acceptable level of risk at a reasonable cost. This may result in insurance coverage that in the event of a substantial loss would not be sufficient to pay the full current market value or current replacement cost of our lost investment. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors also may make it unfeasible to use insurance proceeds to replace a facility after it has been damaged or destroyed. Under such circumstances, the insurance proceeds we receive may be inadequate to restore our economic position in a property. Demand for real estate is sensitive to economic conditions over which we have no control. The past economic downturn has adversely affected our operations, and a slow recovery or decline in economic conditions could continue to adversely affect our operations. Demand for real estate is sensitive to changes in economic conditions such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, the availability of financing and interest rate levels. Currently, unemployment is above historically normal levels and many lenders have limited their willingness to make, and tightened their credit requirements with regard to, residential mortgage loans. In addition, a record number of homes in foreclosure and forced sales by homeowners under distressed economic conditions are contributing to the high levels of inventories of homes and homesites available for sale. Revenues from our residential and commercial real estate segments have declined in the past several years, which has had an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Unemployment, lack of consumer confidence and other adverse consequences of the recent economic recession could delay a recovery in real estate markets. Florida, as one of the states most affected by the lingering economic downturn, could take longer to recover than the rest of the nation. Our business is especially sensitive to economic conditions in Northwest Florida, where many of our developments are located, and the Southeast region of the United States, which in the past has produced a high percentage of customers for the resort and seasonal products in our Northwest Florida communities. If market conditions were to worsen, the demand for our real estate products could further decline, negatively impacting our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Changes in the demographics affecting projected population growth in Florida, particularly Northwest Florida, including a decrease in the migration of Baby Boomers, could adversely affect our business. Florida has experienced strong population growth in the past few decades, particularly during the real estate boom in the first half of the last decade. In recent years, however, Florida’s population growth has been below average compared to recent decades. The decline in the rate of migration into Florida could reflect a number of factors affecting Florida, including weak economic conditions, restrictive credit, the occurrence of hurricanes and increased costs of living. Also, because of the housing collapse across the nation, people interested in moving to Florida may have delayed or cancelled their plans due to difficulties selling their existing homes. The success of our primary communities will be dependent on strong migration population expansion in our regions of development, primarily Northwest Florida. We also believe that Baby Boomers seeking retirement or vacation homes in Florida will remain important target customers for our real estate products in the future. Florida’s population growth could be negatively affected in the future by factors such as adverse economic 7 Table of Contents conditions, the occurrence of hurricanes or oil spills and the high cost of real estate, insurance and property taxes. Furthermore, those persons considering moving to Florida may not view Northwest Florida as an attractive place to live or own a second home and may choose to live in another region of the state. In addition, as an alternative to Florida, other states such as Georgia, North and South Carolina and Tennessee are increasingly becoming retirement destinations and are attracting retiring Baby Boomers and the workforce population who may have otherwise considered moving to Florida. If Florida, especially Northwest Florida, experiences an extended period of slow growth, or even net out-migration, our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition would suffer. A securities class action lawsuit is pending against us involving our past public disclosures, and the outcome of this lawsuit, and any related derivative lawsuits that may be filed in the future, could have an adverse effect on our business and stock price. A securities class action lawsuit was filed against us and certain of our officers and directors, relating to our past disclosures and alleging, among other things, violations of the securities laws. There have also been additional derivative lawsuits filed by shareholders relating to the same matters described in the securities class action suit. We cannot predict the outcome of the pending lawsuit or any future lawsuits. Substantial damages or other monetary remedies assessed against us could have an adverse effect on our business and stock price. An adverse outcome of the investigation being conducted by the SEC could have an adverse effect on our business and stock price. In January 2011, the SEC commenced an informal inquiry into our accounting practices for impairment of investment in real estate assets and then notified us in June of 2011 that it had issued a related order of private investigation. We intend to fully cooperate with the SEC in connection with this matter. We are unable to predict the outcome of the SEC investigation. An adverse outcome of the investigation by the SEC could have an adverse effect on our business and stock price. Our business model is dependent on transactions with strategic partners. We may not be able to successfully (1) attract desirable strategic partners; (2) complete agreements with strategic partners; and/or (3) manage relationships with strategic partners going forward, any of which could adversely affect our business. We are seeking strategic partnerships to develop adult active communities, capitalize on the potential of the Port at Port St. Joe and maximize the value of our assets. These strategic partnerships may bring development experience, industry expertise, financial resources, financing capabilities, brand recognition and credibility or other competitive assets. We cannot assure, however, that we will have sufficient resources, experience and/or skills to locate desirable partners. We also may not be able to attract partners who want to conduct business in Northwest Florida, our primary area of focus, and who have the assets, reputation or other characteristics that would optimize our development opportunities. Once a strategic partner has been identified, actually reaching an agreement on a transaction may be difficult to complete and may take a considerable amount of time considering that negotiations require careful balancing of the parties’ various objectives, assets, skills and interests. A formal partnership may also involve special risks such as: • our partner may take actions contrary to our instructions or requests, or contrary to our policies or objectives with respect to the real estate investments; • our partner could experience financial difficulties, and • actions by our partner may subject property owned by the partnership to liabilities or have other adverse consequences. 8 Table of Contents A key complicating factor is that strategic partners may have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours or that are influenced by factors unrelated to our business. These competing interests lead to the difficult challenges of successfully managing the relationship and communication between strategic partners and monitoring the execution of the partnership plan. We cannot assure that we will have sufficient resources, experience and/or skills to effectively manage our ongoing relationships with our strategic partners. We may also be subject to adverse business consequences if the market reputation of a strategic partner deteriorates. If we cannot successfully execute transactions with strategic partners, our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial position could be adversely affected. Environmental and other regulations may have an adverse effect on our business. Our properties are subject to federal, state and local environmental regulations and restrictions that may impose significant limitations on our development ability. In most cases, approval to develop requires multiple permits which involves a long, uncertain and costly regulatory process. Most of our land holdings contain jurisdictional wetlands, some of which may be unsuitable for development or prohibited from development by law. Development approval most often requires mitigation for impacts to wetlands that require land to be conserved at a disproportionate ratio versus the actual wetlands impacted and approved for development. Much of our property is undeveloped land located in areas where development may have to avoid, minimize or mitigate for impacts to the natural habitats of various protected wildlife or plant species. Much of our property is in coastal areas that usually have a more restrictive permitting burden and must address issues such as coastal high hazard, hurricane evacuation, floodplains and dune protection. In addition, our current or past ownership, operation and leasing of real property, and our current or past transportation and other operations, are subject to extensive and evolving federal, state and local environmental laws and other regulations. The provisions and enforcement of these environmental laws and regulations may become more stringent in the future. Violations of these laws and regulations can result in: • civil penalties; • remediation expenses; • natural resource damages; • personal injury damages; • potential injunctions; • cease and desist orders; and • criminal penalties. In addition, some of these environmental laws impose strict liability, which means that we may be held liable for any environmental damage on our property regardless of fault. Some of our past and present real property, particularly properties used in connection with our previous transportation and papermill operations, were involved in the storage, use or disposal of hazardous substances that have contaminated and may in the future contaminate the environment. We may bear liability for this contamination and for the costs of cleaning up a site at which we have disposed of, or to which we have transported, hazardous substances. The presence of hazardous substances on a property may also adversely affect our ability to sell or develop the property or to borrow funds using the property as collateral. Changes in laws or the interpretation thereof, new enforcement of laws, the identification of new facts or the failure of other parties to perform remediation at our current or former facilities could lead to new or greater liabilities that could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial position. 9 Table of Contents We have had to take significant impairments of the carrying value of our investments in real estate and a decline in real estate values could result in additional impairments, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. Over the past five years, we have recorded impairment charges of $507.1 million related to real estate investments. If market conditions were to deteriorate, our estimate of undiscounted future cash flows could fall below their carrying value and we could be required to take further impairments, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. We may not be able to successfully implement our business strategy, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our future financial performance and success are dependent in large part upon our ability to implement our business strategy successfully. Our business strategy envisions several initiatives, including investing in new opportunities, such as the development of active adult communities, building a portfolio of recurring revenue streams, developing new commercial and industrial uses for our land portfolio, entering into strategic alliances and continuing to efficiently contribute to our bottom line performance. We may not be able to successfully implement our business strategy or achieve the benefits of our business plan. If we are not successful in achieving our objectives, our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial position could be negatively affected. Our investment in new business opportunities is inherently risky, and could disrupt our ongoing businesses and adversely affect our operations. We have invested and expect to continue to invest in new business opportunities, such as the development of our active adult community and the expansion of port related opportunities at the Port at Port St. Joe. Such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management from current operations, insufficient revenues to offset liabilities assumed and expenses associated with these new investments, inadequate return of capital on our investments, and unidentified issues not discovered in our due diligence of such opportunities. Because these new ventures are inherently risky, no assurance can be given that such strategies and offerings will be successful and will not adversely affect our reputation, financial condition, and operating results. If the RockTenn mill in Panama City were to permanently cease operations, the price we receive for our pine pulpwood may decline, and the cost of delivering logs to alternative customers could increase. In July of 2010, Smurfit-Stone, who was the owner of the Panama City mill, emerged from approximately 18 months of bankruptcy protection, and during the first quarter of 2011, RockTenn announced its acquisition of Smurfit-Stone. Deliveries made by us during Smurfit-Stone’s bankruptcy proceedings were uninterrupted and payments were made on time. A significant portion of the revenue from our forestry segment is generated pursuant to our supply agreement entered into in November 2010 with RockTenn (“RockTenn Supply Agreement”), under which we sell delivered wood (trees that we cut and deliver). Under the terms of the RockTenn Supply Agreement, Smurfit-Stone and its successor RockTenn would be liable for any monetary damages as a result of the closure of the mill due to economic reasons for a period of one year. Nevertheless, if the RockTenn mill in Panama City were to permanently cease operations, the price for stumpage and delivered wood may decline, and the cost of delivering logs to alternative customers would increase. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash to maintain and enhance our operations and to develop our real estate holdings, our results of operations, cash flows and financial position could be negatively impacted. We operate in a capital intensive industry and require significant cash to maintain our competitive position. Although we have significantly reduced capital expenditures and operating expenses, we will need significant 10 Table of Contents cash in the future to maintain and enhance our operations and to develop our real estate holdings. We obtain funds for our operating expenses and capital expenditures through cash flow from operations, property sales and financings. Due to the low levels of cash currently generated by our operations, we are continuing to explore alternative methods or strategies for generating additional cash, such as ways to maximize the use of our timber. We cannot guarantee, however, that any of these alternative cash sources will be viable, significant or successful. Failure to obtain sufficient cash when needed may limit our development activities, cause us to further reduce our operations or cause us to sell desirable assets on unfavorable terms, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. If our cash flow proves to be insufficient, unanticipated expenses or otherwise, we may need to obtain additional financing from third-party lenders in order to support our plan of operations. Additional funding, whether obtained through public or private debt or equity financing, or from strategic alliances, may not be available when needed or may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Our business is subject to extensive regulation that may restrict, make more costly or otherwise adversely impact our ability to conduct our operations. Approval to develop real property in Florida entails an extensive entitlements process involving multiple and overlapping regulatory jurisdictions and often requiring discretionary action by local government. This process is often political, uncertain and may require significant exactions in order to secure approvals. Real estate projects in Florida must generally comply with the provisions of the Local Government Comprehensive Planning and Land Development Regulation Act (the “Growth Management Act”) and local land development regulations. In addition, development projects that exceed certain specified regulatory thresholds require approval of a comprehensive Development of Regional Impact, or DRI, application. Compliance with the Growth Management Act, local land development regulations and the DRI process is usually lengthy and costly and can be expected to materially affect our real estate development activities. The Growth Management Act requires local governments to adopt comprehensive plans guiding and controlling future real property development in their respective jurisdictions and to evaluate, assess and keep those plans current. Included in all comprehensive plans is a future land use map which sets forth allowable land use development rights. Since most of our land has an “agricultural” land use, we are required to seek an amendment to the future land use map to develop residential, commercial and mixed-use projects. Approval of these comprehensive plan map amendments is highly discretionary. All development orders and development permits must be consistent with the comprehensive plan. Each plan must address such topics as future land use and capital improvements and make adequate provision for a multitude of public services including transportation, schools, solid waste disposal, sanitation, sewerage, potable water supply, drainage, affordable housing, open space and parks. The local governments’ comprehensive plans must also establish “levels of service” with respect to certain specified public facilities, including roads and schools, and services to residents. In many areas, infrastructure funding has not kept pace with growth, causing facilities to operate below established levels of service. Local governments are prohibited from issuing development orders or permits if the development will reduce the level of service for public facilities below the level of service established in the local government’s comprehensive plan, unless the developer either sufficiently improves the services up front to meet the required level or provides financial assurances that the additional services will be provided as the project progresses. In addition, local governments that fail to keep their plans current may be prohibited by law from amending their plans to allow for new development. Changes in the Growth Management Act or the DRI review process or the interpretation thereof, new enforcement of these laws or the enactment of new laws regarding the development of real property could lead to new or greater liabilities that could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial position. 11 Table of Contents We are dependent upon homebuilders as customers, but our ability to attract homebuilder customers and their ability or willingness to satisfy their purchase commitments may be uncertain. We are highly dependent upon our relationships with homebuilders to be the primary customers for our homesites and to provide construction services at our residential developments. The homebuilder customers that have already committed to purchase homesites from us could decide to reduce, delay or cancel their existing commitments to purchase homesites in our developments. Homebuilders also may not view our developments as desirable locations for homebuilding operations, or they may choose, in light of current market conditions, to purchase land from distressed sellers. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. We are exposed to risks associated with real estate development that could adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Our real estate development activities entail risks that could adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, including: • construction delays or cost overruns, which may increase project development costs; • claims for construction defects after property has been developed, including claims by purchasers and property owners’ associations; • an inability to obtain required governmental permits and authorizations; • an inability to secure tenants necessary to support commercial projects; and • compliance with building codes and other local regulations. Our ability to harvest and deliver timber may be subject to limitations which could adversely affect our operations. Weather conditions, timber growth cycles, access limitations and regulatory requirements associated with the protection of wildlife and water resources may restrict harvesting of timberlands. In addition, our timber is subject to damage by fire, insect infestation, disease, prolonged drought, flooding and other natural disasters. Changes in global climate conditions could intensify one or more of these factors. Although damage from such natural causes usually is localized and affects only a limited percentage of the timber, there can be no assurance that any damage affecting our timberlands will in fact be so limited. As is common in the forest products industry, we do not maintain insurance coverage with respect to damage to our timberlands. Our revenues, net income and cash flow from operations are dependent to a significant extent on the pricing of our products and our continued ability to harvest timber at adequate levels. Significant competition could have an adverse effect on our business. A number of residential and commercial developers, some with greater financial and other resources, compete with us in seeking resources for development and prospective purchasers and tenants. Competition from other real estate developers may adversely affect our ability to attract purchasers and sell residential and commercial real estate, sell undeveloped rural land and attract and retain experienced real estate development personnel. In addition, the forestry business is highly competitive in terms of price and quality. Wood products are subject to increasing competition from a variety of substitute products, including non-wood and engineered wood products. There can be no assurance we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures we face in the markets in which we operate will not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents The loss of the services of our key management and personnel could adversely affect our business. Our ability to successfully implement our business strategy will depend on our ability to attract and retain experienced and knowledgeable management and other professional staff. There is no assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining key management personnel. The cyclical nature of our real estate operations could adversely affect our results of operations and stock price. The real estate industry is cyclical and can experience downturns based on consumer perceptions of real estate markets and other cyclical factors, which factors may work in conjunction with or be wholly unrelated to general economic conditions. Furthermore, our business is affected by seasonal fluctuations in customers interested in purchasing real estate, with the spring and summer months traditionally being the most active time of year for customer traffic and sales. Also, our supply of homesites available for purchase fluctuates from time to time. As a result, our real estate operations are cyclical, which may cause our quarterly revenues and results of operations to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and to differ from the expectations of public market analysts and investors. If this occurs, the trading price of our stock could also fluctuate significantly. Limitations on the access to the airport runway at the new Northwest Florida Beaches International Airport may have an adverse effect on the demand for our West Bay Sector lands adjacent to the new airport. Our land donation agreement with the airport authority and the deed for the airport land provide access rights to the airport runway from our adjacent lands. We subsequently entered into an access agreement with the airport authority that provides access to the airport runway. Under the terms of the access agreement, we are subject to certain requirements of the airport authority, including but not limited to the laws administered by the Federal Aviation Administration (the “FAA”), the Florida Department of Environmental Protection, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and Bay County. Should security measures at airports become more restrictive in the future due to circumstances beyond our control, FAA regulations governing these access rights may impose additional limitations that could significantly impair or restrict access rights. In addition, we are required to obtain environmental permits from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and Florida’s Department of Environmental Protection in order to develop the land necessary for access from our planned areas of commercial development to the airport runway. Such permits are often subject to a lengthy approval process, and there can be no assurance that such permits will be issued, or that they will be issued in a timely manner. We believe that runway access is a valuable attribute of some of our West Bay Sector lands adjacent to the new airport, and the failure to maintain such access, or the imposition of significant restrictions on such access, could adversely affect the demand for such lands and our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Increases in property insurance premiums and decreases in availability of homeowner property insurance in Florida could reduce customer demand for homes and homesites in our developments. Homeowner property insurance companies doing business in Florida have reacted to previous hurricanes by increasing premiums, requiring higher deductibles, reducing limits, restricting coverage, imposing exclusions, refusing to insure certain property owners, and in some instances, ceasing insurance operations in the state. It is uncertain what effect these actions may have on property insurance availability and rates in the state. Furthermore, Florida’s state-owned property insurance company, Citizens Property Insurance Corp., underwrites homeowner property insurance. If there were to be a catastrophic hurricane or series of hurricanes to hit Florida, the exposure of the state government to property insurance claims could place extreme stress on state finances. 13 Table of Contents The high costs of property insurance premiums in Florida could deter potential customers from purchasing a home or homesite in one of our developments or make Northwest Florida less attractive to new employers that can create high quality jobs needed to spur growth in the region, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Our commercial leasing projects may not yield anticipated returns, which could harm our operating results, reduce cash flow, or the ability to sell commercial assets. A component of our business strategy is the development of commercial properties and assets for sale. These developments may not be as successful as expected due to the commercial leasing related risks, as well as the risks associated with real estate development, generally. Additionally, development of commercial projects involves the risk associated with the significant time lag between commencement and completion of the project. This time lag subjects us to greater risks relating to fluctuations in the general economy, our ability to obtain construction or permanent financing on favorable terms, if at all, our ability to achieve projected rental rates, the pace that we will be able to lease new tenants, higher than estimated construction costs (including labor and material costs), and delays in the completion of projects because of, among other factors, inclement weather, labor disruptions, construction delays or delays in receiving zoning or other regulatory approvals, or man-made or natural disasters. Mortgage financing issues, including lack of supply of mortgage loans, tightened lending requirements and possible future increases in interest rates, could reduce demand for our products. Many purchasers of our real estate products obtain mortgage loans to finance a substantial portion of the purchase price, or they may need to obtain mortgage loans to finance the construction costs of homes to be built on homesites purchased from us. Also, our homebuilder customers depend on retail purchasers who rely on mortgage financing. Many mortgage lenders and investors in mortgage loans have recently experienced severe financial difficulties arising from losses incurred on sub-prime and other loans originated before the downturn in the real estate market. Because of these problems, the supply of mortgage products has been constrained, and the eligibility requirements for borrowers have been significantly tightened. These problems in the mortgage lending industry could adversely affect potential purchasers of our products, including our homebuilder customers, thus having a negative effect on demand for our products. Despite the current problems in the mortgage lending industry, interest rates for home mortgage loans have generally remained low. Mortgage interest rates could increase in the future, however, which could adversely affect the demand for residential real estate. In addition to residential real estate, increased interest rates and restrictions in the availability of credit could also negatively impact sales of our commercial properties or other land we offer for sale. If interest rates increase and the ability or willingness of prospective buyers to finance real estate purchases is adversely affected, our sales, results of operations, cash flows and financial position may be negatively affected. If Fairholme Funds, Inc. controls us within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, we may be unable to engage in transactions with potential strategic partners, which could adversely affect our business. Fairholme Funds, Inc. (“Fairholme”) is an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the “Investment Company Act”) that, as of December 31, 2012, beneficially owned approximately 25.1% of our outstanding common stock. Fairholme Capital Management, L.L.C. (“Fairholme Capital”), which controls Fairholme, is the investment advisor of accounts that in the aggregate own, as of December 31, 2012, an additional 2.1% of our common stock. Bruce R. Berkowitz, the Managing Member of Fairholme Capital Management, L.L.C., and the President of Fairholme, is the Chairman of our Board of Directors. Under the Investment Company Act, “control” means the power to exercise a controlling influence over the management or policies of a company, unless such power is solely the result of an official position with such company. Any 14 Table of Contents person who owns beneficially, either directly or through one or more controlled companies, more than 25% of the voting securities of a company shall be presumed to control such company. The SEC, however, has considered factors other than ownership of voting securities in determining control, including an official position with the company when such was obtained as a result of the influence over the company. Accordingly, even if Fairholme’s beneficial ownership in us is below 25%, Fairholme may nevertheless be deemed to control us. The Investment Company Act generally prohibits a company controlled by an investment company from engaging in certain transactions with any affiliate of the investment company or affiliates of the affiliate, subject to limited exceptions. An affiliate of an investment company is defined in the Investment Company Act as, among other things, any company 5% or more of whose outstanding voting securities are directly or indirectly owned, controlled, or held with power to vote, by the investment company, a company directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common control with, the investment company or a company directly or indirectly owning, controlling, or holding with power to vote, 5% or more of the outstanding voting securities of the investment company. We believe that Fairholme is currently affiliated with a number of entities, including Imperial Metals Corporation, Leucadia National Corporation, MBIA, Inc., Orchard Supply Hardware Stores Corporation, Sears Holdings Corporation, Sears Canada, Inc., and American International Group Inc. Due to this affiliation, should Fairholme be deemed to control us, we may be prohibited from engaging in certain transactions with these entities and certain of their affiliates and any future affiliates of Fairholme, unless one of the limited exceptions applies. This could adversely affect our ability to enter into transactions freely and compete in the marketplace. In addition, significant penalties apply for companies found to be in violation of the Investment Company Act. We may not be able to benefit from our net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards and changes in our income tax estimates could affect our profitability. In preparing our consolidated financial statements, significant management judgment is required to estimate our income taxes. Our estimates are based on our interpretation of federal and state tax laws. We estimate our actual current tax due and assess temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes. The temporary differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included in our consolidated balance sheets. Adjustments may be required by a change in assessment of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes due to audit adjustments by federal and state tax authorities, and changes in tax laws and rates. To the extent adjustments are required in any given period; we include the adjustments in the tax provision in our financial statements. These adjustments could materially impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. In the recent prior years, the Company has suffered losses for tax and financial statement purposes that have generated significant federal and state NOL carryforwards. These may be used against future taxable income in future periods; however, we will not receive any tax benefits with regard to tax losses incurred except to the extent we have taxable income in the 20 year NOL carryforward period. In our consolidated financial statements, we have recorded a reserve against a portion of all of our deferred tax assets due to the possibility that we may not have taxable income that will enable us to benefit from them. However, those reserves will be reversed when it becomes more likely than not that we will have sufficient taxable income to take advantage of the deferred tax assets. Tax law changes could make home ownership more expensive or less attractive. Historically, significant expenses of owning a home, including mortgage interest expense and real estate taxes, generally have been deductible expenses for the purpose of calculating an individual’s federal, and in some cases state, taxable income as itemized deductions. The Federal government has been considering eliminating some deductions, or limiting the tax benefit of deductions, with regard to people with incomes above specified levels. As part of the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, enacted on January 1, 2013, beginning in 2013 certain taxpayers will have their itemized deductions limited. Such limits will increase the after-tax cost of owning a home, which is likely to impact adversely the demand for homes and could reduce the prices for which we can sell homes, particularly in higher priced communities. 15 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 