Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces numerous risks, including those set forth below. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. A continued downturn in the demand for residential real estate, combined with the increase in the supply of real estate available for sale and declining prices, will continue to adversely impact our business. The United States housing market is suffering the worst downturn since the Great Depression. Florida, one of the hardest hit states, has experienced a substantial, continuing decline in demand in most of its residential real estate markets. The collapse of the housing market has contributed to the current recession in the national economy, which exerts further downward pressure on housing demand. Significantly tighter lending standards for borrowers are also having a significant negative effect on demand. As a result, the supply of existing homes for sale has risen nationwide, with dramatic increases in Florida. A record number of homes in foreclosure and forced sales by homeowners under distressed economic conditions are significantly contributing to the high levels of inventories of homes and homesites available for sale. The collapse of real estate market demand and high levels of inventories are causing prices for residential real estate to significantly decline. 9 Table of Contents These adverse market conditions have negatively affected our residential and commercial real estate products. Revenues from our residential and commercial real estate segments have drastically declined in the past several years, which has had an adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our lack of revenues reflects not only fewer sales, but also declining prices for our real estate products. We do not know how long the downturn in the real estate market will last or when real estate markets will return to more normal conditions. Rising unemployment, lack of consumer confidence and other adverse conditions in the current economic recession could significantly delay a recovery in real estate markets. Our business will continue to suffer until market conditions improve. If market conditions were to continue to worsen, the demand for our residential real estate products could further decline, negatively impacting our earnings, cash flow and liquidity. A prolonged recession in the national economy, or a further downturn in national or regional economic conditions, especially in Florida, could continue to adversely impact our business. The collapse of the housing market, together with the crisis in the credit markets, have resulted in a recession in the national economy with rising unemployment, shrinking gross domestic product and drastically reduced consumer spending. At such times, potential customers often defer or avoid real estate purchases due to the substantial costs involved. Furthermore, a significant percentage of our planned residential units are resort and seasonal products, purchases of which are even more sensitive to adverse economic conditions. Our real estate sales, revenues, financial condition and results of operations have suffered as a result. Our business is especially sensitive to economic conditions in Florida, where all of our developments are located, and the Southeast region of the United States, which in the past has produced a high percentage of customers for the resort and seasonal products in our Northwest Florida communities. Florida and the Southeast both are experiencing recessionary conditions. There is no consensus as to when the recession will end, and Florida, as one of the hardest hit states, could take longer to recover than the rest of the nation. A prolonged recession will continue to have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business could decline even more if economic conditions deteriorate further. Our business is concentrated in Northwest Florida. As a result, our long-term financial results are largely dependent on the economic growth of Northwest Florida. The economic growth of Northwest Florida, where the majority of our land is located, is an important factor in creating demand for our products and services. Two important factors in the economic growth of the region are (1) the completion of significant infrastructure improvements and (2) the creation of new jobs. Infrastructure improvements, including the relocation of the Panama City-Bay County International Airport One fundamental factor in the economic growth of Northwest Florida is the need for state and local governments, in combination with the private sector, to plan and complete significant infrastructure improvements in the region, such as new roads, a new airport, medical facilities and schools. The future economic growth of Northwest Florida and our financial results may be adversely affected if its infrastructure is not improved. There can be no assurance that new improvements will occur or that existing projects will be completed. Although the Federal government is currently planning to spend billions of dollars of federal funds on infrastructure projects as part of a recently enacted economic stimulus package, we are not certain how much, if any, of these funds will be dedicated to projects in Northwest Florida. 10 Table of Contents The most significant infrastructure improvement currently underway in Northwest Florida is the relocation of the Panama City-Bay County International Airport to a green-field site in western Bay County. Almost half of the site infrastructure work, including 75 percent of the primary runway, is now complete, and the Airport Authority continues to project a May 2010 opening date. One legal challenge to the airport remains outstanding, and we cannot guarantee that this lawsuit or any future legal challenges to the new airport will be successfully resolved. We also cannot guarantee that the construction of the airport will not encounter other difficulties, such as financing issues, construction difficulties or cost overruns, that may delay or prevent the completion of the new airport. We believe that the relocation of the airport is critically important to the overall economic development of Northwest Florida, and if the airport is not completed, our business prospects would be materially adversely affected. Attracting significant new employers that can create new, high-quality jobs Attracting significant new employers that can create new, high-quality jobs is a key factor in the economic growth of Northwest Florida. Northwest Florida has traditionally lagged behind the rest of Florida in economic growth, and as a result its residents have a lower per capita income than residents in other parts of the state. In order to improve the economy of the region, state and local governments, along with the private sector, must seek to attract large employers capable of paying high salaries to large numbers of new employees. State governments, particularly in the Southeast, and local governments within Florida compete intensely for such new jobs. There can be no assurance that efforts to attract significant new employers to locate facilities in Northwest Florida will be successful. The future economic growth of Northwest Florida and our financial results may be adversely affected if such job growth is not achieved. If the new Panama City-Bay County International Airport is completed and opened for operations but is not successful, we may not realize the economic benefits that we are anticipating from the new airport. We believe that the relocation of the Panama City-Bay County International Airport is critically important to the overall economic development of Northwest Florida. We anticipate that the airport will provide a catalyst for value creation in the property we own surrounding the airport, as well as our other properties throughout Northwest Florida. In order for the new airport to reach its full potential, we believe the following issues need to be resolved: • A low-cost airline could increase the number of vacation and business travelers to the region. However, the airline industry is in turmoil, battling rising costs (including fuel and labor costs) and economic conditions. In this environment, it may be difficult to convince a low-cost airline to start service to a new airport. • Additional federal, state and local approvals are needed to extend the airport’s main runway. The current main runway is permitted for 8,400 feet. A 10,000 feet runway is needed to accommodate certain large passenger jets and large aviation-dependent economic development projects. The State of Florida appropriated the funds necessary for the runway extension in 2008, but the required approvals have not yet been obtained for the extension. There can be no assurance that the required approvals will be granted, or that they will be obtained in a timely manner or without legal challenge. • The airport must successfully compete with the other airports in the region. There can be no assurance that the region can support all of the existing airports. Changes in the demographics affecting projected population growth in Florida, particularly Northwest Florida, including a decrease in the migration of Baby Boomers, could adversely affect our business. Florida has experienced strong population growth since World War II, including during the real estate boom in the first half of this decade. In recent years, however, the rate of net migration into Florida has drastically declined. For example, Florida’s net in-migration for the 2005-06 fiscal year was 362,200, but net in-migration is projected to be only 4,234 for the 2008-09 fiscal year. Florida has not experienced a comparable drop in net in-migration since the recession of the mid-1970’s. This sharp decrease could reflect a number of factors affecting Florida including difficult economic conditions, rising foreclosures, restrictive 11 Table of Contents credit, the occurrence of hurricanes and increased costs of living. Also, because of the housing collapse across the nation, people interested in moving to Florida may have delayed or cancelled their plans due to difficulties selling their existing homes. The success of our primary communities will be dependent on strong in-migration population expansion in our regions of development, primarily Northwest Florida. We also believe that Baby Boomers seeking retirement or vacation homes in Florida will remain important target customers for our real estate products in the future. Florida’s population growth could be negatively affected in the future by factors such as adverse economic conditions, the occurrence of hurricanes and the high cost of real estate, insurance and property taxes. Furthermore, those persons considering moving to Florida may not view Northwest Florida as an attractive place to live or own a second home and may choose to live in another region of the state. In addition, as an alternative to Florida, other states such as Georgia, North and South Carolina and Tennessee are increasingly becoming retirement destinations and are attracting retiring Baby Boomers and the workforce population who may have otherwise considered moving to Florida. If Florida, especially Northwest Florida, experiences an extended period of slow growth, or even net out-migration, our business, results of operations and financial condition would suffer. If the market values of our homesites, our remaining inventory of completed homes and other developed real estate assets were to drop below the book value of those properties, we would be required to write-down the book value of those properties, which would have an adverse affect on our balance sheet and our earnings. Unlike most other real estate developers, we have owned the majority of our land for many years, having acquired most of our land in the 1930’s and 1940’s. Consequently, we have a very low cost basis in the majority of our lands. In certain instances, however, we have acquired properties at market values for project development. Also, many of our projects have expensive amenities, such as pools, golf courses and clubs, or feature elaborate commercial areas requiring significant capital expenditures. Many of these costs are capitalized as part of the book value of the project land. Adverse market conditions, in certain circumstances, may require the book value of real estate assets to be decreased, often referred to as a “write-down” or “impairment.” A write-down of an asset would decrease the value of the asset on our balance sheet and would reduce our earnings for the period in which the write-down is recorded. During 2008, we recorded total asset impairment costs of $60.5 million, $41.3 million of which primarily related to the write-down of capitalized costs at certain projects and the impairment of completed homes in several of our communities due to current market conditions. If market conditions were to continue to deteriorate, and the market values for our homesites, remaining homes held in inventory and other project land were to fall below the book value of these assets, we could be required to take additional write-downs of the book value of those assets. The occurrence of hurricanes and other natural disasters in Florida could adversely affect our business. Because of its location between the Gulf of Mexico and the Atlantic Ocean, Florida is particularly susceptible to the occurrence of hurricanes. Depending on where any particular hurricane makes landfall, our developments in Florida, especially our coastal properties in Northwest Florida, could experience significant, if not catastrophic, damage. Such damage could materially delay sales in affected communities or could lessen demand for products in those communities. Importantly, regardless of actual damage to a development, the occurrence of hurricanes in Florida and the southeastern United States could negatively impact demand for our real estate products because of consumer perceptions of hurricane risks. For example, the southeastern United States experienced a record-setting hurricane season in 2005. In particular, Hurricane Katrina, which struck New Orleans and the Mississippi Gulf Coast, caused severe devastation to those areas and received prolonged national media attention. Although our properties were not significantly impacted, we believe that the 2005 hurricane season had an immediate negative impact on sales of our resort residential products. Another severe hurricane or hurricane season in the future could have a similar negative effect on our real estate sales. 12 Table of Contents In addition to hurricanes, the occurrence of other natural disasters in Florida, such as tornadoes, floods, fires, unusually heavy or prolonged rain and droughts, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to develop and sell properties or realize income from our projects. The occurrence of natural disasters could also have a long-term negative effect on the attractiveness of Florida as a location for resort, seasonal and/or primary residences. Increases in property insurance premiums and the decreasing availability of property insurance in Florida could reduce customer demand for homes and homesites in our developments. Property insurance companies doing business in Florida have reacted to recent hurricanes by significantly increasing premiums, requiring higher deductibles, reducing limits, restricting coverages, imposing exclusions, refusing to insure certain property owners, and in some instances, ceasing insurance operations in the state. For example, in 2008 State Farm Florida Insurance Company, the largest private insurer in Florida, decided to stop issuing new homeowner insurance policies in Florida and in February 2009 announced that it is terminating its homeowner insurance business in Florida altogether. It is uncertain what effect this action will have on property insurance availability and rates in the state. This trend of decreasing availability of insurance and rising insurance rates could continue if there are severe hurricanes in the future. Furthermore, since the 2005 hurricane season, Florida’s state-owned property insurance company, Citizens Property Insurance Corp., has significantly increased the number of its outstanding policies, causing its potential claims exposure to exceed $400 billion. If there were to be a catastrophic hurricane or series of hurricanes to hit Florida, the exposure of the state government to property insurance claims could place extreme stress on state finances and may ultimately cause taxes in Florida to significantly increase. The state may decide to limit the availability of state-sponsored property insurance in the future. The high and increasing costs of property insurance premiums in Florida, as well as the decrease in private property insurers, could deter potential customers from purchasing a home or homesite in one of our developments, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Increases in real estate property taxes could reduce customer demand for homes and homesites in our developments. Florida experienced dramatic increases in property values during the record-setting real estate activity in the first half of this decade. As a result, local governments have been, and may continue aggressively re-assessing the value of homes and real estate for property tax purposes. These larger assessments increase the total real estate property taxes due from property owners annually. The Florida legislature recently attempted to address rising property taxes, but the legislation enacted brought only minimal relief. The current high costs of real estate property taxes in Florida, and future increases in property taxes, could deter potential customers from purchasing a lot or home in one of our developments, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Mortgage financing issues, including lack of supply of mortgage loans, tightened lending requirements and possible future increases in interest rates, could reduce demand for our products. Many purchasers of our real estate products obtain mortgage loans to finance a substantial portion of the purchase price, or they may need to obtain mortgage loans to finance the construction costs of homes to be built on homesites purchased from us. Also, our homebuilder customers depend on retail purchasers who rely on mortgage financing. Many mortgage lenders and investors in mortgage loans have recently experienced severe financial difficulties arising from losses incurred on sub-prime and other loans originated before the downturn in the real estate market. Despite unprecedented efforts by the Federal government to stabilize the nation’s banks, banking operations remain unsettled and the future of certain financial institutions remains uncertain. Due to these problems, the supply of mortgage products has been constrained, and the eligibility requirements for borrowers have been significantly tightened. These problems in the mortgage lending industry could adversely affect potential purchasers of our products, including our homebuilder customers, thus having a negative effect on demand for our products. 13 Table of Contents Despite the current problems in the mortgage lending industry, interest rates for home mortgage loans have generally remained low. Mortgage interest rates could increase in the future, however, which could adversely affect the demand for residential real estate. In addition, any changes in the federal income tax laws which would remove or limit the deduction for interest on home mortgage loans could have an adverse impact on demand for our residential products. In addition to residential real estate, increased interest rates and restrictions in the availability of credit could also negatively impact sales of our commercial properties or other land we offer for sale. If interest rates increase and the ability or willingness of prospective buyers to finance real estate purchases is adversely affected, our sales, revenues, financial condition and results of operations may be negatively affected. If we are not able to raise sufficient cash to enhance and maintain our operations and to develop our real estate holdings, our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted. We operate in a capital intensive industry and require significant cash to maintain our competitive position. Although we have significantly reduced capital expenditures and operating expenses during the current real estate downturn, we will need significant cash in the future to enhance and maintain our operations and to develop our real estate holdings. We obtain funds for our capital expenditures and operating expenses through cash flow from operations, property sales and financings. Failure to obtain sufficient cash, if and when needed, may limit our development activities which could reduce our revenues and results of operations. During 2008 and 2007, we relied on rural land sales as a significant source of revenues due to the continuing downturn in our residential and commercial real estate markets. We expect to continue to rely on rural land sales as a significant source of revenue in the future. However, there can be no assurance that such sales could be completed at prices acceptable to us. If our cash flow proves to be insufficient, due to the continuing real estate downturn, unanticipated expenses or otherwise, we may need to obtain additional financing from third-party lenders in order to support our plan of operations. Additional funding, whether obtained through public or private debt or equity financing, or from strategic alliances, may not be available when needed or may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. We have a $100 million senior revolving credit facility with adjustable interest rates that we can draw upon to provide cash for operations and/or capital expenditures. Increases in interest rates can make it more expensive for us to use this credit facility or obtain funds from other sources that we need to operate our business. If our net worth declines, we could default on our revolving credit facility which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have a $100 million revolving credit facility available to provide a source of funds for operations, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes. While we have not yet needed to borrow any funds under this facility, it is important to have in place as a ready source of financing, especially in the current difficult economic conditions. The credit facility contains financial covenants that we must meet on a quarterly basis. These restrictive covenants require, among other things, that our tangible net worth not be less than $900 million. Compliance with this covenant will be challenging if we continue to experience significant operating losses, asset impairments, pension plan losses and other reductions in our net worth. If we do not comply with the minimum tangible net worth covenant, we could have an event of default under our credit facility. There can be no assurance that the bank will be willing to amend the facility to provide for more lenient terms prior to any such default, or that it will not charge significant fees in connection with any such amendment. If we had borrowings under the facility at the time of a default, the bank could immediately accelerate all outstanding amounts and file a mortgage on the majority of our properties to secure the repayment of the debt. Even if we had no outstanding borrowings under the facility at the time of a default, the bank may choose to terminate the facility or seek to negotiate additional or more severe restrictive covenants or increased pricing and fees. We could be required to seek an alternative funding 14 Table of Contents source, which may not be available at all or available on acceptable terms. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent upon national, regional and local homebuilders as customers, but our ability to attract homebuilder customers and their ability or willingness to satisfy their purchase commitments may be uncertain considering the current real estate downturn. We no longer build homes in our developments, so we are highly dependent upon our relationships with national, regional and local homebuilders to be the primary customers for our homesites and to provide construction services at our residential developments. Due to the collapse of real estate markets across the nation, including our markets, homebuilders are struggling to survive and are significantly less willing to purchase homesites and invest capital in speculative construction. The homebuilder customers that have already committed to purchase homesites from us could decide to reduce, delay or cancel their existing commitments to purchase homesites in our developments. One survey in January 2009 indicated a record low level of confidence among homebuilders, considering that prices and sales are likely to slide further as banks remain reluctant to lend, a high number of foreclosed homes are returning to the market and job losses discourage buyers. Homebuilders also may not view our developments as desirable locations for homebuilding operations. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our business model is dependent on transactions with strategic partners. We may not be able to successfully (1) attract desirable strategic partners; (2) complete agreements with strategic partners; and/or (3) manage relationships with strategic partners going forward, any of which could adversely affect our business. We have increased our focus on executing our development and value creation strategies through joint ventures and strategic relationships. We are actively seeking strategic partners for alliances or joint venture relationships as part of our overall strategy for particular developments or regions. These joint venture partners may bring development experience, industry expertise, financial resources, financing capabilities, brand recognition and credibility or other competitive assets. We cannot assure you, however, that we will have sufficient resources, experience and/or skills to locate desirable partners. We also may not be able to attract partners that want to conduct business in Northwest Florida, our primary area of focus, and that have the assets, reputation or other characteristics that would optimize our development opportunities. Once a partner has been identified, actually reaching an agreement on a transaction may be difficult to complete and may take a considerable amount of time considering that negotiations require careful balancing of the parties’ various objectives, assets, skills and interests. A formal partnership with a joint venture partner may also involve special risks such as: • we may not have voting control over the joint venture; • the venture partner may take actions contrary to our instructions or requests, or contrary to our policies or objectives with respect to the real estate investments; • the venture partner could experience financial difficulties; and • actions by a venture partner may subject property owned by the joint venture to liabilities greater than those contemplated by the joint venture agreement or have other adverse consequences. Joint ventures have a high failure rate. A key complicating factor is that strategic partners may have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours or that are influenced by factors unrelated to our business. These competing interests lead to the difficult challenges of successfully managing the relationship and communication between strategic partners and monitoring the execution of the partnership plan. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient resources, experience and/or skills to effectively manage our ongoing relationships with our strategic partners. We may also be subject to adverse business consequences if the market reputation of a strategic partner deteriorates. If we cannot successfully execute transactions with strategic partners, our business could be adversely affected. 15 Table of Contents Our business is subject to extensive regulation which makes it difficult and expensive for us to conduct our operations. Development of real estate entails a lengthy, uncertain and costly entitlements process. Approval to develop real property in Florida entails an extensive entitlements process involving multiple and overlapping regulatory jurisdictions and often requiring discretionary action by local government. This process is often political, uncertain and may require significant exactions in order to secure approvals. Real estate projects in Florida must generally comply with the provisions of the Local Government Comprehensive Planning and Land Development Regulation Act (the “Growth Management Act”) and local land development regulations. In addition, development projects that exceed certain specified regulatory thresholds require approval of a comprehensive Development of Regional Impact, or DRI, application. Compliance with the Growth Management Act, local land development regulations and the DRI process is usually lengthy and costly and can be expected to materially affect our real estate development activities. The Growth Management Act requires local governments to adopt comprehensive plans guiding and controlling future real property development in their respective jurisdictions and to evaluate, assess and keep those plans current. Included in all comprehensive plans is a future land use map which sets forth allowable land use development rights. Since most of our land has an “agricultural” land use, we are required to seek an amendment to the future land use map to develop residential, commercial and mixed use projects. Approval of these comprehensive plan map amendments is highly discretionary. All development orders and development permits must be consistent with the comprehensive plan. Each plan must address such topics as future land use and capital improvements and make adequate provision for a multitude of public services including transportation, schools, solid waste disposal, sanitation, sewerage, potable water supply, drainage, affordable housing, open space and parks. The local governments’ comprehensive plans must also establish “levels of service” with respect to certain specified public facilities, including roads and schools, and services to residents. In many areas, infrastructure funding has not kept pace with growth, causing facilities to operate below established levels of service. Local governments are prohibited from issuing development orders or permits if the development will reduce the level of service for public facilities below the level of service established in the local government’s comprehensive plan, unless the developer either sufficiently improves the services up front to meet the required level or provides financial assurances that the additional services will be provided as the project progresses. In addition, local governments that fail to keep their plans current may be prohibited by law from amending their plans to allow for new development. The DRI review process includes an evaluation of a project’s impact on the environment, infrastructure and government services, and requires the involvement of numerous state and local environmental, zoning and community development agencies. Local government approval of any DRI is subject to appeal to the Governor and Cabinet by the Florida Department of Community Affairs, and adverse decisions by the Governor or Cabinet are subject to judicial appeal. The DRI approval process is usually lengthy and costly, and conditions, standards or requirements may be imposed on a developer that may materially increase the cost of a project. In addition to the existing complex regulatory environment in Florida, anti-growth advocates continue to seek greater constraints on development activity as Florida’s population continues to increase. One example is an effort underway known as “Hometown Democracy,” a petition for approval of a constitutional amendment that would require all land use amendments to be subject to a vote of local citizens before adoption by the local government. As currently proposed, this law would mean that a land use plan amendment, which a local government would otherwise approve, could be struck down by a vote of local citizens. The proponents of this petition were not able to obtain the number of signatures required to get the petition on the ballot for the November 2008 general election, but it is possible that they will be able to do so in a future election. Changes in the Growth Management Act or the DRI review process or the interpretation thereof, new enforcement of these laws or the enactment of new laws regarding the development of real property could lead 16 Table of Contents to new or greater liabilities that could materially adversely affect our business, profitability or financial condition. Environmental and other regulations may have an adverse effect on our business. Our properties are subject to federal, state and local environmental regulations and restrictions that may impose significant limitations on our development ability. In most cases, approval to develop requires multiple permits which involve a long, uncertain and costly regulatory process. Most of our land holdings contain jurisdictional wetlands, some of which may be unsuitable for development or prohibited from development by law. Development approval most often requires mitigation for impacts to wetlands that require land to be conserved at a disproportionate ratio versus the actual wetlands impacted and approved for development. Much of our property is undeveloped land located in areas where development may have to avoid, minimize or mitigate for impacts to the natural habitats of various protected wildlife or plant species. Much of our property is in coastal areas that usually have a more restrictive permitting burden and must address issues such as coastal high hazard, hurricane evacuation, floodplains and dune protection. In addition, our current or past ownership, operation and leasing of real property, and our current or past transportation and other operations are subject to extensive and evolving federal, state and local environmental laws and other regulations. The provisions and enforcement of these environmental laws and regulations may become more stringent in the future. Violations of these laws and regulations can result in: • civil penalties; • remediation expenses; • natural resource damages; • personal injury damages; • potential injunctions; • cease and desist orders; and • criminal penalties. In addition, some of these environmental laws impose strict liability, which means that we may be held liable for any environmental damages on our property regardless of fault. Some of our past and present real property, particularly properties used in connection with our previous transportation and papermill operations, were involved in the storage, use or disposal of hazardous substances that have contaminated and may in the future contaminate the environment. We may bear liability for this contamination and for the costs of cleaning up a site at which we have disposed of or to which we have transported hazardous substances. The presence of hazardous substances on a property may also adversely affect our ability to sell or develop the property or to borrow funds using the property as collateral. Changes in laws or the interpretation thereof, new enforcement of laws, the identification of new facts or the failure of other parties to perform remediation at our current or former facilities could lead to new or greater liabilities that could materially adversely affect our business, profitability or financial condition. If Wells Fargo & Company’s Wachovia Bank subsidiary (or any successor bank) were to fail and be liquidated, we could be required to accelerate the payment of the deferred taxes on our installment sale transactions. Our business, cash flows and financial condition may be adversely affected if this significant tax event were to occur. During 2007 and 2008, we sold approximately 132,055 acres of timberland in installment sale transactions for approximately $183.3 million which was paid in the form of 15-year installment notes receivable. These installment notes are fully backed by letters of credit issued by Wachovia Bank, N.A. (subsequently acquired by Wells Fargo & Company) which are secured by bank deposits in the amount of the purchase price. The approximate aggregate taxable gain from these transactions was $160.5 million, but the installment sale structure allows us to defer paying taxes on these gains for 15 years. Meanwhile, we generated 17 Table of Contents cash from these sales (sometimes referred to as “monetizing” the sales) by contributing the installment notes and bank letters of credit to special purpose entities organized by us, and these special purpose entities in turn issued to various institutional investors notes payable backed by the installment notes and bank letters of credit, and in some cases by a second letter of credit issued for the account of the special purpose entity. The special purpose entities have approximately $163.5 million of these notes payable outstanding. These notes are payable solely out of the assets of the special purpose entities (which consist of the installment notes and the letters of credit). The investors in the special purpose entities have no recourse against us for payment of the notes. The special purpose entities’ financial position and results of operations are not consolidated in our financial statements. Banks and other financial institutions experienced a high level of instability in 2008, resulting in numerous bank and financial institution failures, hastily structured mergers and acquisitions, and an unprecedented direct infusion of billions of dollars of capital by the federal government into banks and financial institutions. During this crisis, Wells Fargo acquired Wachovia Corporation and its subsidiary, Wachovia Bank, N.A., the holder of the deposits and the issuer of the letter of credit obligations in our installment sale transactions. The banking industry remains troubled, and the federal government has announced a second round of bailout measures for the nation’s banks. Wells Fargo, as one of the largest banks in the United States, would presumably receive the support of the federal government if needed to prevent a failure of its banking subsidiaries. There can be no assurance, however, that Wells Fargo’s Wachovia Bank subsidiary (or any successor bank) will not fail during this difficult time or that it would receive government assistance sufficient to prevent a bank failure. If Wells Fargo’s Wachovia Bank subsidiary (or any successor bank) were to fail and be liquidated, the installment notes receivable, the letters of credit and the notes issued by the special purpose entities to the institutional investors could be virtually worthless or satisfied at a significant discount. As a result, the taxes deferred under the installment sale structure would be accelerated. This adverse tax event could result in an immediate need for a significant amount of cash that may not be readily available from our cash reserves, our revolving line of credit or other third-party financing sources. Any such cash outlay, even if available, could divert needed resources away from our business or cause us to liquidate assets on unfavorable terms or prices. Our business and financial condition may be adversely affected if these significant tax events were to occur. In the event of a liquidation of Wells Fargo’s Wachovia Bank subsidiary (or any successor bank), we could also be required to write-off the remaining retained interest recorded on our balance sheet in connection with the installment sale transactions, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. If drilling for oil or natural gas is permitted off the coast of Northwest Florida, our business may be adversely affected. Since 1982 drilling for oil and natural gas has been banned in federal territorial waters. This federal moratorium, along with action by the state of Florida, has prevented the construction of unsightly drilling platforms off the coast of Florida and has preserved the natural beauty of the state’s coastline and beaches. This natural coastal beauty is an important positive factor in Florida’s tourist-based economy and contributes significantly to the value of our properties in Northwest Florida. Due to an unprecedented spike in oil prices in 2008, there was political pressure on federal and state leaders to overturn the offshore drilling ban. As a result, the presidential and congressional bans on offshore drilling in most U.S. waters ended last year. President Obama’s new administration is currently reviewing all pending regulations and its position on this issue has not been finalized. Meanwhile, Florida’s governor has expressed support for allowing oil and natural gas drilling off the Florida coastline under certain circumstances. If drilling platforms are permitted to be built off the coast of Northwest Florida close enough to be seen from land, potential purchasers may find our coastal properties to be less attractive, which may have an adverse effect on our business. 18 Table of Contents We are exposed to risks associated with real estate development. Our real estate development activities entail risks that include: • construction delays or cost overruns, which may increase project development costs; • an inability to obtain required governmental permits and authorizations; • an inability to secure tenants necessary to support commercial projects; and • compliance with building codes and other local regulations. Significant competition could have an adverse effect on our business. A number of residential and commercial developers, some with greater financial and other resources, compete with us in seeking resources for development and prospective purchasers and tenants. Competition from other real estate developers may adversely affect our ability to: • attract purchasers and sell residential and commercial real estate; • sell undeveloped rural land; • attract and retain experienced real estate development personnel; and • obtain construction materials and labor. Our real estate operations are cyclical. The real estate industry is cyclical and can experience downturns based on consumer perceptions of real estate markets and other cyclical factors, which factors may work in conjunction with or either wholly unrelated to general economic conditions. Furthermore, our business is affected by seasonal fluctuations in customers interested in purchasing real estate, with the spring and summer months traditionally being the most active time of year for customer traffic and sales. Also, our supply of homesites available for purchase fluctuates from time to time. As a result, our real estate operations are cyclical, which may cause our quarterly revenues and operating results to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and to differ from the expectations of public market analysts and investors. If this occurs, our stock’s trading price could also fluctuate significantly. Changes in our income tax estimates could affect our profitability. In preparing our consolidated financial statements, significant management judgment is required to estimate our income taxes. Our estimates are based on our interpretation of federal and state tax laws. We estimate our actual current tax due and assess temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes. The temporary differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included in our consolidated balance sheet. Adjustments may be required by a change in assessment of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes due to audit adjustments by federal and state tax authorities, and changes in tax laws. To the extent adjustments are required in any given period, we will include the adjustments in the tax provision in our financial statements. These adjustments could materially impact our financial position, cash flow and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have no unresolved comments from the SEC regarding our periodic or current reports. 