Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces numerous risks, including those set forth below. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. 11 Table of Contents A continued downturn in the demand for residential real estate, combined with an increase in the supply of real estate available for sale and declining prices, will continue to adversely impact our business. Since mid-2005 through the present, the United States, and Florida in particular, have experienced a substantial, continuing decline in demand in most residential real estate markets. At the same time, the supply of existing homes for sale have risen nationwide, with dramatic increases in Florida. Although these weak market conditions have affected all of our residential real estate products, we have experienced the most significant decrease in demand and increase in resale inventories in our resort and seasonal markets. Contributing to the increase in homes and home sites available for sale are investors who are seeking to liquidate real estate investments acquired during the height of the real estate market earlier this decade. The downturn in the real estate market is causing prices for residential real estate to decline. An increasing number of foreclosure sales and other distressed sales may contribute to further declines in market prices for homes and home sites. An environment of declining prices could further weaken real estate markets as many customers may delay purchases in anticipation of lower prices in the future. As a result of the dramatic downturn in the residential real estate markets, revenues from our residential real estate segment have drastically declined, which has had an adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. We do not know how long the downturn in the real estate market will last or when real estate markets will return to more normal conditions, but our business will continue to suffer until market conditions improve. The already weak conditions in the real estate markets could be further exacerbated by a deterioration of national or regional economic conditions or by other risks, described below. If market conditions were to continue to worsen, the demand for our residential real estate products could further decline, negatively impacting our net income, cash flow and liquidity and potentially further impacting selling prices and/or absorption rates for our products. A downturn in national or regional economic conditions, especially in Florida, could adversely impact our business. Our real estate sales, revenues, financial condition and results of operations could decline if there were a deterioration of the national or certain regional economies. The dramatic declines in housing markets across the nation, severe problems in the subprime lending mortgage industry and the subsequent crisis in the credit markets have all had a negative impact on the national economy, affecting consumer confidence and spending. Some economists have already declared that the United States economy is experiencing a recession. This downturn in the national economy could adversely impact our business. Our sales and revenues would be especially affected by a downturn in economic conditions in Florida, where all of our developments are located. Data from the fourth quarter of 2007 indicates that Florida’s economy has weakened significantly. Florida’s consumer confidence index is at its lowest point in 16 years, and the state’s unemployment rate has increased. In addition to economic conditions in Florida, our business is also affected by the economy of the Southeast region of the United States. We generate a disproportionate amount of our resort and seasonal sales in our Northwest Florida communities from customers in the Southeast, which sales would be impacted by a deterioration of economic conditions in that region. Furthermore, a significant percentage of our planned residential units are resort and seasonal products, purchases of which are particularly sensitive to the state of the economy. Changes in the demographics affecting projected population growth in Florida, particularly Northwest Florida, including a decrease in the migration of Baby Boomers, could adversely affect our business. Florida has experienced strong population growth in recent years, including the migration of Baby Boomers to the state. We believe that Baby Boomers seeking retirement or vacation homes in Florida will be important target customers for our real estate products in the future, and we intend to continue to plan and market products to them. In addition, the success of our primary communities will be dependent on strong in-migration population expansion in our regions of development, primarily Northwest Florida. Despite strong growth in recent years, population data for 2007 indicates a dramatic drop in Florida’s net in-migration statistics. The number of people who moved to Florida in 2007 exceeded those who left by only 12 Table of Contents 35,301, which is significantly down from 268,347 in 2005. Florida’s population growth could be negatively affected in the future by factors such as adverse economic conditions, the occurrence of hurricanes and the high cost of real estate, insurance and property taxes. In addition, as an alternative to Florida, other states such as Georgia, North and South Carolina and Tennessee are increasingly becoming retirement destinations and are attracting retiring Baby Boomers and the workforce population who may have otherwise considered moving to Florida. Florida’s population growth is expected to continue into the foreseeable future, although, as shown by the 2007 data described above, at a slower rate than experienced in recent years. A sustained and significant decrease in the demographic trend of increasing population in Florida, including the migration of Baby Boomers, could adversely affect our business. Furthermore, if persons considering moving to Florida do not view Northwest Florida as an attractive place to live or own a second home, our business could be adversely affected. If the market values of our home sites, our remaining inventory of completed homes and other developed real estate assets were to drop below the book value of those properties, we would be required to write-down the book value of those properties, which would have an adverse affect on our balance sheet and our net income. We are unlike most other real estate developers in that we have owned the majority of the land that we develop for many years, having acquired most of our land in the 1930’s and 1940’s. Consequently, we have a very low cost basis in the majority of our lands. In certain instances, however, we have acquired properties at market values for project development. Also, many of our projects have expensive amenities, such as pools, golf courses and clubs, or feature elaborate commercial areas requiring significant capital expenditures. Many of these costs are capitalized as part of the book value of the project land. During 2007, we recorded total asset impairment costs of $23.2 million, $13.0 million of which related to the write down of capitalized costs at certain projects due to changes in development plans and the impairment of completed homes in several of our communities due to current market conditions. If market conditions were to continue to deteriorate, and the market values for our home sites, remaining homes held in inventory and other project land were to fall below the book value of these assets, we would need to take additional write-downs of the book value of these assets. Any such write-downs would decrease the value of these assets on our balance sheet and would reduce our net income. The occurrence of hurricanes and other natural disasters in Florida could adversely affect our business. Because of its location between the Gulf of Mexico and the Atlantic Ocean, Florida is particularly susceptible to the occurrence of hurricanes. Depending on where any particular hurricane makes landfall, our developments in Florida, especially our coastal properties in Northwest Florida, could experience significant, if not catastrophic, damage. Such damage could materially delay sales in affected communities or could lessen demand for products in those communities. Importantly, regardless of actual destruction in a development, the occurrence of hurricanes in Florida and the southeastern United States could negatively impact demand for our real estate products because of consumer perceptions of hurricane risks. For example, the southeastern United States experienced a record-setting hurricane season in 2005. In particular, Hurricane Katrina, which struck New Orleans and the Mississippi Gulf Coast, caused severe devastation to those areas and received prolonged national media attention. Although our properties were not significantly impacted, we believe that the 2005 hurricane season had an immediate negative impact on sales of our resort residential products. Another severe hurricane or hurricane season in the future could have a similar negative effect on our real estate sales. In addition to hurricanes, the occurrence of other natural disasters in Florida, such as tornadoes, floods, fires, unusually heavy or prolonged rain and droughts, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to develop and sell properties or realize income from our projects. The occurrence of natural disasters could also have a long-term negative effect on the attractiveness of Florida as a location for resort, seasonal and/or primary residences. 13 Table of Contents Increases in real estate property taxes and/or insurance premiums could reduce customer demand for homes and home sites in our developments. Property insurance companies doing business in Florida have reacted to recent hurricanes by significantly increasing premiums, requiring higher deductibles, reducing limits, restricting coverages, imposing exclusions, refusing to insure certain property owners, and in some instances, ceasing insurance operations in the state. These actions have been most dramatically applied to coastal communities. A significant number of our developments are located in such coastal communities. This trend of rising insurance rates could continue if there are severe hurricanes in the future. Florida has recently experienced dramatic increases in property values due to the record-setting real estate activity in the first half of this decade. As a result, local governments have been, and may continue, aggressively re-assessing the value of homes and real estate for property tax purposes. These larger assessments increase the total real estate property taxes due from property owners annually. The current high costs of real estate insurance premiums and property taxes in Florida, as well as future increases in insurance premiums and/or property taxes, could deter potential customers from purchasing a lot or home in one of our developments, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Mortgage financing issues, including lack of supply of mortgage loans, tightened lending requirements and possible future increases in interest rates, could reduce demand for our products. Many purchasers of our real estate products obtain mortgage loans to finance a substantial portion of the purchase price, or they may need to obtain mortgage loans to finance the construction costs of homes to be built on home sites purchased from us. Also, our homebuilder customers depend on retail purchasers who rely on mortgage financing. Many mortgage lenders and investors in mortgage loans are currently experiencing severe financial difficulties arising from losses incurred on sub-prime and other loans originated before the downturn in the real estate market. Due to these problems, the supply of mortgage products has been constrained, and the eligibility requirements for borrowers have been significantly tightened. These problems in the mortgage lending industry could adversely affect potential purchasers of our products, including our homebuilder customers, thus having a negative effect on demand for our products. Despite the current problems in the mortgage lending industry, interest rates for home mortgage loans have generally remained low. Mortgage interest rates could increase in the future, however, which could adversely affect the demand for residential real estate. In addition, any changes in the federal income tax laws which would remove or limit the deduction for interest on home mortgage loans could have an adverse impact on demand for our residential products. In addition to residential real estate, increased interest rates and restrictions in the availability of credit could also negatively impact sales of our commercial properties or other land we offer for sale. If interest rates increase and the ability or willingness of prospective buyers to finance real estate purchases is adversely affected, our sales, revenues, financial condition and results of operations may be negatively affected. Our business is concentrated in Northwest Florida. As a result, our long-term financial results are largely dependent on the economic growth of Northwest Florida. The economic growth of Northwest Florida where the majority of our land is located is an important factor in creating demand for our products and services. Two important factors in the economic growth of the region are (1) significant infrastructure improvements and (2) the creation of new jobs. Infrastructure improvements, including the relocation of the Panama City-Bay County International Airport One fundamental factor in the economic growth of Northwest Florida is the need for state and local governments, in combination with the private sector, to plan and complete significant infrastructure improvements in the region, such as new roads, airports, medical facilities and schools. The future economic growth of 14 Table of Contents Northwest Florida and our financial results may be adversely affected if its infrastructure is not improved. There can be no assurance that these improvements will occur. The most significant infrastructure improvement currently being considered in Northwest Florida is the proposed relocation of the Panama City-Bay County International Airport to a site in western Bay County located on land that we donated to the local Airport Authority. We believe that the relocation of the airport is critically important to the overall economic development of Northwest Florida. In the fourth quarter of 2007, the Airport Authority commenced construction of the new airport. Legal challenges to existing permits and approvals, however, could delay further construction. We cannot guarantee that existing or future legal challenges to the new airport will be successfully resolved. We also cannot guarantee that the construction of the airport will not encounter other difficulties, such as financing issues, construction difficulties or cost overruns, that may delay or prevent the completion of the new airport. If the relocation of the existing airport does not occur, our business prospects would be materially adversely affected. Attracting significant new employers that can create new, high-quality jobs Attracting significant new employers that can create new, high-quality jobs is a key factor in the economic growth of Northwest Florida. Northwest Florida has traditionally lagged behind the rest of Florida in economic growth, and as a result its residents have a lower per capita income than residents in other parts of the state. In order to improve the economy of the region, state and local governments, along with the private sector, must seek to attract large employers capable of paying high salaries to large numbers of new employees. State governments in the Southeast and local governments within Florida compete intensely for such new jobs. There can be no assurance that efforts to attract significant new employers to locate facilities in Northwest Florida will be successful. The future economic growth of Northwest Florida and our financial results may be adversely affected if such job growth is not achieved. If we are not able to raise sufficient cash to enhance and maintain our operations and to develop our real estate holdings, our revenues, financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted. We operate in a capital intensive industry and require significant capital expenditures to maintain our competitive position. We obtain funds for our capital expenditures through cash flow from operations, property sales and financings. Failure to secure needed additional financing, if and when needed, may limit our development activities which could reduce our revenues and results of operations. We expect to make significant capital expenditures in the future to enhance and maintain the operations of our properties and to develop our real estate holdings. In the event that our plans or assumptions change or prove to be inaccurate, or if our cash flow proves to be insufficient, due to unanticipated expenses or otherwise, we may need to obtain additional financing in order to support our plan of operations. Additional funding, whether obtained through public or private debt or equity financing, or from strategic alliances, may not be available when needed or may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. We rely on a senior revolving credit facility with adjustable interest rates to provide cash for operations and/or capital expenditures. Increases in interest rates can make it more expensive for us to obtain the funds we need to operate our business. If we are not able to generate sufficient earnings to satisfy our debt covenants, we could default on our outstanding debt which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have a $500 million revolving credit facility which had $132 million outstanding on December 31, 2007. We also have a $100 million term loan and outstanding senior notes in the aggregate amount of $240 million. Our credit facility, as well as our term loan and senior notes, contain financial covenants that we must meet on a quarterly basis. These restrictive covenants require, among other things, that we generate earnings in excess of our fixed charges and that we not exceed certain debt levels. The most problematic covenant in the current real estate market is the required fixed charge coverage ratio. If we are not able to generate sufficient earnings to satisfy our fixed charge covenant, we could have an event of default under our 15 Table of Contents credit facility, term loan, senior notes and certain other debt. Such a default could cause these lenders to immediately accelerate amounts due under our credit facility, term loan, senior notes and certain other debt. We would not be able to repay those accelerated amounts all at one time without selling substantial assets, which we might have to do at prices well below fair values, or refinancing the debt, which may not be achievable on acceptable terms. In the event of a default, the lenders could also seek to negotiate additional or more severe restrictive covenants or increased pricing. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are increasingly dependent upon national, regional and local homebuilders as customers, but our ability to attract homebuilder customers and their ability or willingness to satisfy their purchase commitments may be uncertain considering the current real estate downturn. With our exit from the homebuilding business, we are now highly dependent upon our relationships with national, regional and local homebuilders to be the primary customers for our home sites and to provide construction services at our residential developments. If homebuilders do not view our developments as desirable locations for homebuilding operations, our business will be adversely affected. Furthermore, due to the severe downturn in real estate markets across the nation, including our markets, homebuilders are now less willing to purchase home sites and invest capital in speculative construction. In addition, our national homebuilder customers that have already committed to purchase home sites from us could decide to allocate their limited resources to markets other than our Florida markets, which could lead to the reduction, delay or cancellation of existing commitments to purchase home sites in our developments. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our business model is increasingly dependent on transactions with strategic partners. We may not be able to successfully (1) attract desirable strategic partners; (2) complete agreements with strategic partners; and/or (3) manage relationships with strategic partners going forward, any of which could adversely affect our business. As part of our 2007 business restructuring, we have increased our focus on executing our development and value creation strategies through joint ventures and strategic relationships. We are actively seeking strategic partners for alliances or joint venture relationships as part of our overall strategy for particular developments or regions. These joint venture partners may bring development experience, industry expertise, financial resources, financing capabilities, brand recognition and credibility or other competitive assets. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be able to attract partners that have the assets, reputation or other characteristics that would optimize our development opportunities. Once a partner has been identified, actually reaching an agreement on a transaction may be difficult to complete and may take a considerable amount of time considering that negotiations require careful balancing of the parties’ various objectives, assets, skills and interests. A formal partnership with a joint venture partner may also involve special risks such as: • we may not have voting control over the joint venture; • the venture partner may take actions contrary to our instructions or requests, or contrary to our policies or objectives with respect to the real estate investments; • the venture partner could experience financial difficulties; and • actions by a venture partner may subject property owned by the joint venture to liabilities greater than those contemplated by the joint venture agreement or have other adverse consequences. Joint ventures have a high failure rate. A key complicating factor is that strategic partners may have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours or that are influenced by factors unrelated to our business. These competing interests lead to the difficult challenges of successfully managing the relationship and communication between strategic partners and monitoring the execution of the partnership plan. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient resources, experience and/or skills to effectively manage our ongoing relationships with our strategic partners. We may also be subject to adverse business 16 Table of Contents consequences if the market reputation of a strategic partner deteriorates. If we cannot successfully execute transactions with strategic partners, our business could be adversely affected. Our business is subject to extensive regulation which makes it difficult and expensive for us to conduct our operations. Development of real estate entails a lengthy, uncertain and costly entitlements process. Approval to develop real property in Florida entails an extensive entitlements process involving multiple and overlapping regulatory jurisdictions and often requiring discretionary action by local government. This process is often political, uncertain and may require significant exactions in order to secure approvals. Real estate projects in Florida must generally comply with the provisions of the Local Government Comprehensive Planning and Land Development Regulation Act (the “Growth Management Act”) and local land development regulations. In addition, development projects that exceed certain specified regulatory thresholds require approval of a comprehensive Development of Regional Impact, or DRI, application. Compliance with the Growth Management Act, local land development regulations and the DRI process is usually lengthy and costly and can be expected to materially affect our real estate development activities. The Growth Management Act requires local governments to adopt comprehensive plans guiding and controlling future real property development in their respective jurisdictions and to evaluate, assess and keep those plans current. Included in all comprehensive plans is a future land use map which sets forth allowable land use development rights. Since most of our land has an “agricultural” land use, we are required to seek an amendment to the future land use map to develop residential, commercial and mixed use projects. Approval of these comprehensive plan map amendments is highly discretionary. All development orders and development permits must be consistent with the comprehensive plan. Each plan must address such topics as future land use and capital improvements and make adequate provision for a multitude of public services including transportation, schools, solid waste disposal, sanitation, sewerage, potable water supply, drainage, affordable housing, open space and parks. The local governments’ comprehensive plans must also establish “levels of service” with respect to certain specified public facilities, including roads and schools, and services to residents. In many areas, infrastructure funding has not kept pace with growth, causing facilities to operate below established levels of service. Local governments are prohibited from issuing development orders or permits if the development will reduce the level of service for public facilities below the level of service established in the local government’s comprehensive plan, unless the developer either sufficiently improves the services up front to meet the required level or provides financial assurances that the additional services will be provided as the project progresses. In addition, local governments that fail to keep their plans current may be prohibited by law from amending their plans to allow for new development. The DRI review process includes an evaluation of a project’s impact on the environment, infrastructure and government services, and requires the involvement of numerous state and local environmental, zoning and community development agencies. Local government approval of any DRI is subject to appeal to the Governor and Cabinet by the Florida Department of Community Affairs, and adverse decisions by the Governor or Cabinet are subject to judicial appeal. The DRI approval process is usually lengthy and costly, and conditions, standards or requirements may be imposed on a developer with respect to a particular project, which may materially increase the cost of the project. In addition to the existing complex regulatory environment in Florida, anti-growth advocates continue to seek greater constraints on development activity as Florida’s population continues to increase. One example is an effort underway known as “Hometown Democracy,” a petition for approval of a constitutional amendment that would require all land use amendments to be subject to a vote of local citizens before adoption by the local government. 17 Table of Contents As currently proposed, this law would mean that a land use plan amendment, which a local government would otherwise approve, could be struck down by a vote of local citizens. The proponents of this petition were not able to obtain the number of signatures required to get the petition on the ballot for the November 2008 general election, but it is possible that they will be able to do so in a future election. Changes in the Growth Management Act or the DRI review process or the interpretation thereof, new enforcement of these laws or the enactment of new laws regarding the development of real property could lead to new or greater liabilities that could materially adversely affect our business, profitability or financial condition. Environmental and other regulations may have an adverse effect on our business. Our properties are subject to federal, state and local environmental regulations and restrictions that may impose significant limitations on our development ability. In most cases, approval to develop requires multiple permits which involve a long, uncertain and costly regulatory process. Most of our land holdings contain jurisdictional wetlands, some of which may be unsuitable for development or prohibited from development by law. Development approval most often requires mitigation for impacts to wetlands that require land to be conserved at a disproportionate ratio versus the actual wetlands impacted and approved for development. Much of our property is undeveloped land located in areas where development may have to avoid, minimize or mitigate for impacts to the natural habitats of various protected wildlife or plant species. Much of our property is in coastal areas that usually have a more restrictive permitting burden and must address issues such as coastal high hazard, hurricane evacuation, floodplains and dune protection. In addition, our current or past ownership, operation and leasing of real property, and our current or past transportation and other operations are subject to extensive and evolving federal, state and local environmental laws and other regulations. The provisions and enforcement of these environmental laws and regulations may become more stringent in the future. Violations of these laws and regulations can result in: • civil penalties; • remediation expenses; • natural resource damages; • personal injury damages; • potential injunctions; • cease and desist orders; and • criminal penalties. In addition, some of these environmental laws impose strict liability, which means that we may be held liable for any environmental damages on our property regardless of fault. Some of our past and present real property, particularly properties used in connection with our previous transportation and papermill operations, were involved in the storage, use or disposal of hazardous substances that have contaminated and may in the future contaminate the environment. We may bear liability for this contamination and for the costs of cleaning up a site at which we have disposed of or to which we have transported hazardous substances. The presence of hazardous substances on a property may also adversely affect our ability to sell or develop the property or to borrow funds using the property as collateral. Changes in laws or the interpretation thereof, new enforcement of laws, the identification of new facts or the failure of other parties to perform remediation at our current or former facilities could lead to new or greater liabilities that could materially adversely affect our business, profitability or financial condition. 18 Table of Contents If we are unable to retain or attract experienced real estate development personnel, our business may be adversely affected. Our future success largely depends on our ability to attract and retain experienced real estate development personnel. The market for these employees is highly competitive. During 2006 and 2007 we had significant headcount reduction in a series of restructuring events. These changes, coupled with the continued downturn in our real estate markets, could have an adverse effect on the morale of our employees and cause them to seek other employment opportunities. If we cannot continue to retain and attract quality personnel, our ability to effectively operate our business may be significantly limited. We do not have key-person life insurance on any of our executive officers. We are exposed to risks associated with real estate development. Our real estate development activities entail risks that include: • construction delays or cost overruns, which may increase project development costs; • an inability to obtain required governmental permits and authorizations; • an inability to secure tenants necessary to support commercial projects; and • compliance with building codes and other local regulations. Significant competition could have an adverse effect on our business. A number of residential and commercial developers, some with greater financial and other resources, compete with us in seeking resources for development and prospective purchasers and tenants. Competition from other real estate developers may adversely affect our ability to: • attract purchasers and sell residential and commercial real estate; • sell undeveloped rural land; • attract and retain experienced real estate development personnel; and • obtain construction materials and labor. Our real estate operations are cyclical. The real estate industry is cyclical and can experience downturns based on consumer perceptions of real estate markets and other cyclical factors, which factors may work in conjunction with or either wholly unrelated to general economic conditions. Furthermore, our business is affected by seasonal fluctuations in customers interested in purchasing real estate, with the spring and summer months traditionally being the most active time of year for customer traffic and sales. Also, our supply of home sites available for purchase will fluctuate from time to time. As a result, our real estate operations are cyclical, which may cause our quarterly revenues and operating results to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and to differ from the expectations of public market analysts and investors. If this occurs, our stock’s trading price could also fluctuate significantly. Changes in our income tax estimates could affect our profitability. In preparing our consolidated financial statements, significant management judgment is required to estimate our income taxes. Our estimates are based on our interpretation of federal and state tax laws. We estimate our actual current tax due and assess temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes. The temporary differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included in our consolidated balance sheet. Adjustments may be required by a change in assessment of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes due to audit adjustments by federal and state tax authorities, and changes in tax laws. To the extent adjustments are required in any given period, we will include the 19 Table of Contents adjustments in the tax provision in our financial statements. These adjustments could materially impact our financial position, cash flow and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have no unresolved comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding our periodic or current reports. 