Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces numerous risks, including those set forth below. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. A downturn in national or regional economic conditions, especially in Florida, could adversely impact our business. Our real estate sales, revenues, financial condition and results of operations could decline due to a deterioration of the national or certain regional economies. Our sales and revenues would be especially affected by a downturn in economic conditions in Florida, where most of our developments are located. In addition, we generate a disproportionate amount of our resort and seasonal sales in our Northwest Florida communities from customers in the Southeast region of the United States, which sales would be impacted by a deterioration of economic conditions in that region. In addition, a significant percentage of our planned residential units are resort and seasonal products, purchases of which are particularly sensitive to the state of the economy. A continued downturn in the demand for real estate, especially residential real estate products, could adversely impact our business. The majority of our revenues are generated from the sale of residential real estate products. Our ability to generate revenues in our residential real estate segment is directly related to demand for these products. As described above, a deterioration of economic conditions, whether national or regional, can adversely affect demand for real estate. The real estate industry, however, is cyclical and can experience downturns based on 11 Table of Contents consumer perceptions of real estate markets and other cyclical factors wholly unrelated to general economic conditions. Since late 2005, the United States, and Florida in particular, has experienced a significant downturn in certain residential real estate markets while economic conditions have generally remained healthy. As investors who have increasingly utilized real estate as an investment over the last several years seek to liquidate their real estate investments, resale inventories of existing homes and lots have risen dramatically, especially in our resort markets. If these trends continue, the demand for our residential real estate products could further decline, negatively impacting our net income and potentially further impacting selling prices and/or absorption rates. The occurrence of hurricanes and other natural disasters in Florida could adversely affect our business. Because of its location between the Gulf of Mexico and the Atlantic Ocean, Florida is particularly susceptible to the occurrence of hurricanes. Depending on where any particular hurricane makes landfall, our developments in Florida, especially our coastal properties in Northwest Florida, could experience significant, if not catastrophic, damage. Such damage could materially delay sales in affected communities or could lessen demand for products in those communities. Importantly, regardless of actual destruction in a development, the occurrence of hurricanes in Florida and the southeastern United States could negatively impact demand for our real estate products because of consumer perceptions of hurricane risks. For example, the southeastern United States experienced a record-setting hurricane season in 2005. In particular, Hurricane Katrina, which struck New Orleans and the Mississippi Gulf Coast, caused severe devastation to those areas and received prolonged national media attention. Although our properties were not significantly impacted, we believe that the 2005 hurricane season had an immediate negative impact on sales of our resort residential products. Another severe hurricane or hurricane season in the future could have a similar negative effect on our real estate sales. In addition to hurricanes, the occurrence of other natural disasters in Florida, such as tornadoes, floods, fires, unusually heavy or prolonged rain and droughts, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to develop and sell properties or realize income from our projects. The occurrence of natural disasters could also have a long-term negative effect on the attractiveness of Florida as a location for resort, seasonal and/or primary residences. Increases in real estate property taxes and/or insurance premiums could reduce customer demand for lots and homes in our developments. Property insurance companies doing business in Florida have reacted to recent hurricanes by increasing premiums, requiring higher deductibles, reducing limits, restricting coverages, imposing exclusions, refusing to insure certain property owners, and in some instances, ceasing insurance operations in the state. These actions have been most dramatically applied to coastal communities. A significant number of our developments are located in such coastal communities. This trend of rising insurance rates could continue if there are severe hurricanes in the future. Florida has recently experienced dramatic increases in property values due to the record-setting real estate activity in the first half of this decade. As a result, local governments have been, and may continue, aggressively re-assessing the value of homes and real estate for property tax purposes. These larger assessments increase the total real estate property taxes due from property owners annually. Increases in real estate insurance premiums and/or property taxes could influence potential customers who may consider those annual costs in making housing choices to decide not to purchase a lot or home in one of our developments, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business is concentrated in Florida, primarily Northwest Florida. As a result, our financial results are dependent on the economic growth and health of Florida, particularly Northwest Florida. The economic growth and health of Florida, particularly Northwest Florida where the majority of our land is located, are important factors in sustaining demand for our products and services. As a result, any adverse 12 Table of Contents change to the economic growth and health of Florida, particularly Northwest Florida, could materially adversely affect our financial results. The future economic growth in certain portions of Northwest Florida may be adversely affected if its infrastructure, such as roads, airports, medical facilities and schools, are not improved to meet increased demand. There can be no assurance that these improvements will occur. The most significant infrastructure improvement currently being considered in Northwest Florida is the proposed relocation of the Panama City-Bay County International Airport to a site in western Bay County located on land that we own. In September 2006, the Federal Aviation Administration issued its Record of Decision approving the relocation of the airport to the West Bay site. An appeal of the Record of Decision has been filed by the Natural Resources Defense Council and other petitioners. The Airport Authority has received all state permits necessary to move forward with the relocation of the airport, but the Army Corps of Engineers must issue a Section 404 permit before construction can commence. The relocation of the airport is also dependent on adequate funding. We have agreed to donate 4,000 acres to the Airport Authority when relocation funding and all permits are in place. We believe that the relocation of the airport is important to the overall economic development of Northwest Florida. If the relocation of the airport does not occur, our business prospects could be materially affected. Changes in the demographics affecting projected population growth in Florida, particularly Northwest Florida, including a decrease in the migration of Baby Boomers, could adversely affect our business. Florida has experienced strong recent population growth, including the migration of Baby Boomers to the state. We believe that Baby Boomers seeking retirement or vacation homes in Florida will be important target customers for our real estate products in the future, and we intend to continue to plan and market products to them. In addition, the success of our primary communities will be dependent on strong in-migration population expansion in our regions of development, primarily Northwest Florida. If persons considering moving to Florida do not view Northwest Florida as an attractive primary, second home or retirement destination, our business could be adversely affected. Florida’s population growth is expected to continue into the foreseeable future, although population growth in 2007 is expected to be less than the growth experienced in 2006. Florida’s population growth could be negatively affected in the future by factors such as the occurrence of hurricanes, the high cost of real estate and increasing insurance costs. In addition, other states such as Georgia, North and South Carolina and Tennessee have implemented marketing initiatives designed to attract retiring Baby Boomers and the workforce population who may have otherwise considered moving to Florida. Any significant decrease in the demographic trend of increasing population in Florida, including the migration of Baby Boomers, could adversely affect our business. Increases in interest rates could reduce demand for our products. Many purchasers of our real estate products obtain mortgage loans to finance a substantial portion of the purchase price, including the construction price of a home that may be constructed on the property. Further, our homebuilder customers depend on purchasers who rely on mortgage financing. In general, housing demand is adversely affected by increases in interest rates and by decreases in the availability of mortgage financing. In addition, changes in the federal income tax laws which would remove or limit the deduction for home mortgage interest could have an adverse impact on demand for our residential products. In addition to residential real estate, increased interest rates could also negatively impact our commercial properties or other land we develop or sell. If interest rates increase and the ability or willingness of prospective buyers to finance real estate purchases is adversely affected, our sales, revenues, financial condition and results of operations may be negatively affected. Our real estate operations are cyclical. Our business is affected by demographic and economic trends and the supply and rate of absorption of lot sales and new construction. As a result, our real estate operations are cyclical, which may cause our quarterly revenues and operating results to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and to differ from the 13 Table of Contents expectations of public market analysts and investors. If this occurs, our stock’s trading price could also fluctuate significantly. We are exposed to risks associated with real estate sales and development. Our real estate development activities entail risks that include: • construction delays or cost overruns, which may increase project development costs; • compliance with building codes and other local regulations; • an inability to obtain required governmental permits and authorizations; • an inability to secure tenants or anchors necessary to support commercial projects; and • failure to achieve anticipated occupancy levels or rents. If we are not able to raise sufficient cash to enhance and maintain our operations and to develop our real estate holdings, our revenues, financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted. We operate in a capital intensive industry and require significant capital expenditures to maintain our competitive position. We obtain funds for our capital expenditures through cash flow from operations, property sales and financings. Failure to secure needed additional financing, if and when needed, may limit our development activities which could reduce our revenues and results of operations. We expect to make significant capital expenditures in the future to enhance and maintain the operations of our properties and to develop our real estate holdings. In the event that our plans or assumptions change or prove to be inaccurate, or if our cash flow proves to be insufficient, due to unanticipated expenses or otherwise, we may seek to minimize cash expenditures and/or obtain additional financing in order to support our plan of operations. Additional funding, whether obtained through public or private debt or equity financing, or from strategic alliances, may not be available when needed or may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. We rely on a senior revolving credit facility with adjustable interest rates to provide cash for operations and/or capital expenditures. Increases in interest rates can make it more expensive for us to obtain the funds we need to operate our business. Our credit facility, as well as our outstanding senior notes, contain financial covenants that we must meet on a quarterly basis. These restrictive covenants require, among other things, that we generate cash in excess of our fixed charges and that we not exceed certain debt levels. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash from operations to satisfy these covenants, we could have an event of default under our credit facility, senior notes and certain other debt. Such a default could cause these lenders to immediately accelerate amounts due under our credit facility, senior notes and certain other debt. They could also seek to negotiate additional or more severe restrictive covenants or increased pricing. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to extensive regulation which makes it difficult and expensive for us to conduct our operations. Development of real estate entails a lengthy, uncertain and costly entitlements process. Approval to develop real property in Florida entails an extensive entitlements process involving multiple and overlapping regulatory jurisdictions and often requiring discretionary action by local government. This process is often political, uncertain and may require significant exactions in order to secure approvals. Real estate projects must generally comply with the provisions of the Local Government Comprehensive Planning and Land Development Regulation Act (the “Growth Management Act”) and local land development regulations. In addition, development projects that exceed certain specified regulatory thresholds require approval of a comprehensive Development of Regional Impact, or DRI, application. Compliance with the Growth Management Act, local land development regulations and the DRI process is usually lengthy and costly and can be expected to materially affect our real estate development activities. 14 Table of Contents The Growth Management Act requires local governments to adopt comprehensive plans guiding and controlling future real property development in their respective jurisdictions and to evaluate, assess and keep those plans current. Included in all comprehensive plans is a future land use map which sets forth allowable land use development rights. Since most of our land has an “agricultural” land use, we are required to seek an amendment to the future land use map to develop residential, commercial and mixed use projects. Approval of these comprehensive plan map amendments is highly discretionary. All development orders and development permits must be consistent with the plan. Each plan must address such topics as future land use and capital improvements and make adequate provision for a multitude of public services including transportation, schools, solid waste disposal, sanitation, sewerage, potable water supply, drainage, affordable housing, open space and parks. The local governments’ comprehensive plans must also establish “levels of service” with respect to certain specified public facilities, including roads and schools, and services to residents. In many areas, infrastructure funding has not kept pace with growth, causing facilities to operate below established levels of service. Local governments are prohibited from issuing development orders or permits if the development will reduce the level of service for public facilities below the level of service established in the local government’s comprehensive plan, unless the developer either sufficiently improves the services up front to meet the required level or provides financial assurances that the additional services will be provided as the project progresses. In addition, local governments that fail to keep their plans current may be prohibited by law from amending their plans to allow for new development. The DRI review process includes an evaluation of a project’s impact on the environment, infrastructure and government services, and requires the involvement of numerous state and local environmental, zoning and community development agencies. Local government approval of any DRI is subject to appeal to the Governor and Cabinet by the Florida Department of Community Affairs, and adverse decisions by the Governor or Cabinet are subject to judicial appeal. The DRI approval process is usually lengthy and costly, and conditions, standards or requirements may be imposed on a developer with respect to a particular project, which may materially increase the cost of the project. Changes in the Growth Management Act or the DRI review process or the interpretation thereof, new enforcement of these laws, the enactment of new laws regarding the development of real property or the identification of new facts could lead to new or greater liabilities that could materially adversely affect our business, profitability or financial condition. Environmental and other regulations may have an adverse effect on our business. Our properties are subject to federal, state and local environmental regulations and restrictions that may impose significant limitations on our development ability. In most cases, approval to develop requires multiple permits which involve a long, uncertain and costly regulatory process. Most of our land holdings contain jurisdictional wetlands, some of which may be unsuitable for development or prohibited from development by law. Development approval most often requires mitigation for impacts that require land to be conserved at a disproportionate ratio versus the land approved for development. Much of our property is undeveloped land located in areas where development may have to avoid, minimize or mitigate for impacts to the natural habitats of various protected wildlife or plant species. Much of our property is in coastal areas that usually have a more restrictive permitting burden and must address issues such as coastal high hazard, hurricane evacuation, floodplains and dune protection. In addition, our current or past ownership, operation and leasing of real property, and our current or past transportation and other operations are subject to extensive and evolving federal, state and local environmental laws and other regulations. The provisions and enforcement of these environmental laws and regulations may become more stringent in the future. Violations of these laws and regulations can result in: • civil penalties; • remediation expenses; • natural resource damages; 15 Table of Contents • personal injury damages; • potential injunctions; • cease and desist orders; and • criminal penalties. In addition, some of these environmental laws impose strict liability, which means that we may be held liable for any environmental damages on our property regardless of fault. Some of our past and present real property, particularly properties used in connection with our previous transportation and papermill operations, were involved in the storage, use or disposal of hazardous substances that have contaminated and may in the future contaminate the environment. We may bear liability for this contamination and for the costs of cleaning up a site at which we have disposed of or to which we have transported hazardous substances. The presence of hazardous substances on a property may also adversely affect our ability to sell or develop the property or to borrow funds using the property as collateral. Changes in laws or the interpretation thereof, new enforcement of laws, the identification of new facts or the failure of other parties to perform remediation at our current or former facilities could lead to new or greater liabilities that could materially adversely affect our business, profitability or financial condition. We are increasingly dependent upon national, regional and local homebuilders, as well as other strategic partners, who may have interests that differ from ours and may take actions that adversely affect us. With our exit from the homebuilding business in Florida, we are now highly dependent upon our relationships with national, regional and local homebuilders to provide construction services at our residential developments. If homebuilders do not view our developments as desirable locations for homebuilding operations, our business will be adversely affected. We may also be involved in other strategic alliances or joint venture relationships as part of our overall strategy for particular developments or regions. These joint venture partners may bring development experience, industry expertise, financing capabilities, brand recognition and credibility or other competitive assets. Strategic partners, however, may have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours or that are influenced by factors unrelated to our business. For example, a national homebuilder could decide to delay purchases of lots in one of our developments due to adverse real estate conditions in its areas of operations wholly unrelated to our region. We may also be subject to adverse business consequences if the market reputation of a strategic partner deteriorates. A formal partnership with a joint venture partner may also involve special risks such as: • we may not have voting control over the joint venture; • the venture partner may take actions contrary to our instructions or requests, or contrary to our policies or objectives with respect to the real estate investments; • the venture partner could experience financial difficulties; and • actions by a venture partner may subject property owned by the joint venture to liabilities greater than those contemplated by the joint venture agreement or have other adverse consequences. Changes in our income tax estimates could affect our profitability. In preparing our consolidated financial statements, significant management judgment is required to estimate our income taxes. Our estimates are based on our interpretation of federal and state tax laws. We estimate our actual current tax due and assess temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes. The temporary differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included in our consolidated balance sheet. Adjustments may be required by a change in assessment of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes due to audit adjustments by federal and state tax authorities, and changes in tax laws. To the extent adjustments are required in any given period, we will include the 16 Table of Contents adjustments in the tax provision in our financial statements. These adjustments could materially impact our financial position, cash flow and results of operations. Significant competition could have an adverse effect on our business. The real estate industry is generally characterized by significant competition. A number of residential and commercial developers, some with greater financial and other resources, compete with us in seeking resources for development and prospective purchasers and tenants. Competition from other real estate developers and real estate services companies may adversely affect our ability to: • sell homes and home sites; • attract purchasers; • attract and retain tenants; • sell undeveloped rural land; • attract and retain experienced real estate development personnel; and • obtain construction materials and labor. The forest products industry is highly competitive. Many of our competitors in the forest products industry are fully integrated companies with substantially greater financial and operating resources. Our forest products are also subject to increasing competition from a variety of non-wood and engineered wood products. In addition, we are subject to competition from lumber products and logs imported from foreign sources. Any significant increase in competitive pressures from substitute products or other domestic or foreign suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our forestry operations. If we are unable to attract or retain experienced real estate development personnel, our business may be adversely affected. Our future success largely depends on our ability to attract and retain experienced real estate development personnel. The market for these employees is highly competitive. If we cannot continue to attract and retain quality personnel, our ability to effectively operate our business may be significantly limited. In addition, we are highly dependent upon the strategic vision and operating experience of Peter Rummell, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Rummell’s existing employment agreement with the Company expires in August 2008. We do not have key-person life insurance on Mr. Rummell. Decline in rental income could adversely affect our financial results. We own a 2.3 million square foot portfolio of commercial real estate rental properties. Our profitability could be adversely affected if: • a significant number of our tenants are unable to meet their obligations to us; • we are unable to lease space at our properties when the space becomes available; and • the rental rates upon a renewal or a new lease are significantly lower than expected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have no unresolved comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding our periodic or current reports. 