Item 1A. Risk FactorsYou should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies and prospects.Risks Relating to our BusinessOur business is concentrated in Northwest Florida. As a result, our long-term financial results are largely dependent on the economic growth of Northwest Florida.The economic growth of Northwest Florida, where most of our land is located, is an important factor in creating demand for our products and services. If the AgReserves Sale is consummated, then our principal sources of future revenue will be (1) sales of land to homebuilders and others in connection with residential housing developments, (2) sales and leasing of commercial real estate, (3) revenues generated through our hotel and other leasing activities that are principally tourism related and (4) future revenue from the Port of St. Joe operations. Consequently demand for our products will largely depend on the growth of the local economy. We believe that the future economic growth of Northwest Florida will largely depend on the ability and willingness of state and local governments, in combination with the private sector, (1) to plan and complete significant infrastructure improvements in the region, such as new transportation hubs, roads, rail, pipeline, medical facilities and schools and (2) to attract companies offering high-quality, high salary jobs to large numbers of new employees. If new businesses and new employees in Northwest Florida do not grow as anticipated then demand for residential and commercial real estate and demand to expand Port of St. Joe would not meet our expectations and our future growth would be adversely affected. 10Table of ContentsWe have significant operations and properties in Florida that could be materially and adversely affected by natural disasters, manmade disasters, severe weather conditions or other significant disruptions.Our corporate headquarters and our properties are located in Florida, where major hurricanes have occurred. Because of its location between the Gulf of Mexico and the Atlantic Ocean, Florida is particularly susceptible to the occurrence of hurricanes. Depending on where any particular hurricane makes landfall, our developments in Florida, especially our coastal properties in Northwest Florida, could experience significant, if not catastrophic, damage. Such damage could materially delay sales in affected communities or lessen demand for products in those communities. Damage could (1) disrupt our resort and vacation rental business if there are extensive repairs to the facilities or (2) lessen demand as a vacation destination. If our corporate headquarters facility is damaged or destroyed, we may have difficulty performing certain corporate and operational functions. In addition to hurricanes, the occurrence of other natural disasters and climate conditions in Florida, such as tornadoes, floods, fires, unusually heavy or prolonged rain, droughts and heat waves, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to develop and sell properties or realize income from our projects. The occurrence of these natural disasters could also have a material adverse effect on our forestry business, if timber inventory is destroyed or unable to be harvested. Furthermore, an increase in sea levels due to long-term global warming could have a material adverse effect on our coastal properties and forestry business. The occurrence of natural disasters and the threat of adverse climate changes could also have a long-term negative effect on the attractiveness of Florida as a location for resort, seasonal and/or primary residences and as a location for new employers that can create high-quality jobs needed to spur growth in Northwest Florida.Additionally, we are susceptible to manmade disasters or disruptions, such as oil spills like the Deepwater Horizon oil spill, acts of terrorism, power outages and communications failures. If a hurricane, natural disaster, manmade disaster or other significant disruption occurs, we may experience disruptions to our operations and properties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial position.Our insurance coverage on our properties may be inadequate to cover any losses we may incur.We maintain insurance on our property, including property, liability, fire, flood and extended coverage. However, we do not insure our timber assets and self-insure home warranty claims. Additionally, our insurance for hurricanes is capped at $50 million per named storm and is subject to deductibles. We use our discretion when determining amounts, coverage limits and deductibles for insurance. These terms are determined based on retaining an acceptable level of risk at a reasonable cost. This may result in insurance coverage that in the event of a substantial loss would not be sufficient to pay the full current market value or current replacement cost of our lost investment. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors also may make it unfeasible to use insurance proceeds to replace a facility after it has been damaged or destroyed. Under such circumstances, we may not receive insurance proceeds or the insurance proceeds we receive may not fully cover business interruptions or losses and our earnings, liquidity, or capital resources could be adversely affected. 11Table of ContentsDelays in recovery or any further downturn of the real estate market in Florida could adversely affect our operations.Demand for real estate is sensitive to changes in economic conditions such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, the availability of financing and interest rate levels, over which we have no control. Currently, unemployment is above historically normal levels and many lenders have limited their willingness to make, and tightened their credit requirements with regard to, residential mortgage loans. From 2008 through 2012, revenues from our residential and commercial real estate segment declined, which has had an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Although the demand for residential and commercial real estate began to increase in 2013, it is still well below historical rates. Florida, as one of the states most affected by the lingering economic downturn, has taken longer to recover than the rest of the nation. Furthermore, our business is especially sensitive to economic conditions in Northwest Florida, where many of our developments are located, and the Southeast region of the United States, which in the past has produced a high percentage of customers for the resort and seasonal products in our Northwest Florida communities. Unemployment, lack of consumer confidence and other adverse consequences of the recent economic recession continue to affect the economies of these two regions. If market conditions do not improve as anticipated or were to worsen, the demand for our real estate products could further decline, negatively impacting our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.Changes in the demographics affecting projected population growth in Florida, particularly Northwest Florida, including a decrease in the migration of Baby Boomers, could adversely affect our business.Florida has experienced strong population growth in the past few decades, particularly during the real estate boom in the first half of the last decade. In recent years, however, Florida’s population growth has been below average compared to recent decades. The decline in the rate of migration into Florida could reflect a number of factors affecting Florida, including weak economic conditions, restrictive credit, the occurrence of hurricanes and increased costs of living. Also, because of the housing collapse across the nation, people interested in moving to Florida may have delayed or canceled their plans due to difficulties selling their existing homes.The success of our primary communities and planned mixed-use and active adult communities will be dependent on strong migration population expansion in our regions of development, primarily Northwest Florida. We also believe that Baby Boomers seeking retirement or vacation homes in Florida will remain important target customers for our real estate products in the future. Florida’s population growth could be negatively affected in the future by factors such as adverse economic conditions, the occurrence of natural or manmade disasters and the high cost of real estate, insurance and property taxes. Furthermore, those persons considering moving to Florida may not view Northwest Florida as an attractive place to live or own a second home and may choose to live in another region of the state. In addition, as an alternative to Florida, other states such as Georgia, North and South Carolina and Tennessee are increasingly becoming retirement destinations and are attracting retiring Baby Boomers and the workforce population who may have otherwise considered moving to Florida. If Florida, especially Northwest Florida, experiences an extended period of slow growth, or even net out-migration, our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition would suffer.Increased supply of homes could adversely impact our ability to sell. The number of homes foreclosed in recent years and forced sales by homeowners under distressed economic conditions contributed to reduced appraisal valuations, potentially resulting in lower sales prices. As a result, the demand for our real estate products could further decline, negatively impacting our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. An adverse outcome of the investigation being conducted by the SEC could have an adverse effect on our business and stock price.In January 2011, the SEC commenced an informal inquiry into our accounting practices for impairment of investment in real estate assets and then notified us in June of 2011 that it had issued a related order of private investigation. We most recently communicated with the SEC regarding this matter in February 2014. We are unable to predict the outcome of the SEC investigation. An adverse outcome of the investigation by the SEC could have an adverse effect on our business and stock price.12Table of ContentsOur future growth is dependent on transactions with strategic partners. We may not be able to successfully (1) attract desirable strategic partners; (2) complete agreements with strategic partners; and/or (3) manage relationships with strategic partners going forward, any of which could adversely affect our business.We are seeking strategic partnerships to develop adult active community or communities, capitalize on the potential of our commercial and industrial opportunities and to maximize the value of our assets. These strategic partnerships may bring development experience, industry expertise, financial resources, financing capabilities, brand recognition and credibility or other competitive assets. We cannot assure, however, that we will have sufficient resources, experience and/or skills to locate desirable partners. We also may not be able to attract partners who want to conduct business in Northwest Florida, our primary area of focus, and who have the assets, reputation or other characteristics that would optimize our development opportunities.Once a strategic partner has been identified, actually reaching an agreement on a transaction may be difficult to complete and may take a considerable amount of time considering that negotiations require careful balancing of the parties’ various objectives, assets, skills and interests. A formal partnership may also involve special risks such as:•our partner may take actions contrary to our instructions or requests, or contrary to our policies or objectives with respect to the real estate investments;•our partner could experience financial difficulties, and•actions by our partner may subject property owned by the partnership to liabilities or have other adverse consequences.A key complicating factor is that strategic partners may have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours or that are influenced by factors unrelated to our business. These competing interests lead to the difficult challenges of successfully managing the relationship and communication between strategic partners and monitoring the execution of the partnership plan. We cannot assure that we will have sufficient resources, experience and/or skills to effectively manage our ongoing relationships with our strategic partners. We may also be subject to adverse business consequences if the market reputation of a strategic partner deteriorates. If we cannot successfully execute transactions with strategic partners, our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial position could be adversely affected.Environmental and other regulations may have an adverse effect on our business.Our properties are subject to federal, state and local environmental regulations and restrictions that may impose significant limitations on our development ability. In most cases, approval to develop requires multiple permits which involves a long, uncertain and costly regulatory process. Our land holdings contain jurisdictional wetlands, some of which may be unsuitable for development or prohibited from development by law. Development approval most often requires mitigation for impacts to wetlands that require land to be conserved at a disproportionate ratio versus the actual wetlands impacted and approved for development. Much of our property is undeveloped land located in areas where development may have to avoid, minimize or mitigate for impacts to the natural habitats of various protected wildlife or plant species. Much of our property is in coastal areas that usually have a more restrictive permitting burden and must address issues such as coastal high hazard, hurricane evacuation, floodplains and dune protection.In addition, our current or past ownership, operation and leasing of real property, and our current or past transportation and other operations, are subject to extensive and evolving federal, state and local environmental laws and other regulations. The provisions and enforcement of these environmental laws and regulations may become more stringent in the future. Violations of these laws and regulations can result in:13Table of Contents•civil penalties;•remediation expenses;•natural resource damages;•personal injury damages;•potential injunctions;•cease and desist orders; and•criminal penalties.In addition, some of these environmental laws impose strict liability, which means that we may be held liable for any environmental damage on our property regardless of fault.Some of our past and present real property, particularly properties used in connection with our previous transportation and papermill operations, were involved in the storage, use or disposal of hazardous substances that have contaminated and may in the future contaminate the environment. We may bear liability for this contamination and for the costs of cleaning up a site at which we have disposed of, or to which we have transported, hazardous substances. The presence of hazardous substances on a property may also adversely affect our ability to sell or develop the property or to borrow funds using the property as collateral.Changes in laws or the interpretation thereof, new enforcement of laws, the identification of new facts or the failure of other parties to perform remediation at our current or former facilities could lead to new or greater liabilities that could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial position.We have had to take significant impairments of the carrying value of our investments in real estate and a decline in real estate values could result in additional impairments, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position.Over the past five years, we have recorded impairment charges of $475.2 million related to real estate investments. If market conditions were to deteriorate, our estimate of undiscounted future cash flows could fall below their carrying value and we could be required to take further impairments, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position.We may not be able to successfully implement our business strategy, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and financial performance.Our future financial performance and success are dependent in large part upon our ability to implement our business strategy successfully. Our business strategy envisions several initiatives, including investing in new opportunities, such as the development of active adult communities, expanding our vacation rental programs, developing new commercial and industrial uses for our land portfolio, entering into strategic alliances and continuing to efficiently contribute to our bottom line performance. We may not be able to successfully implement our business strategy or achieve the benefits of our business plan. If we are not successful in achieving our objectives, our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial position could be negatively affected.14Table of ContentsOur investment in new business opportunities is inherently risky, and could disrupt our ongoing businesses and adversely affect our operations.We have invested and expect to continue to invest in new business opportunities, such as the development of our active adult community and the expansion of port related opportunities at the Port of St. Joe. Such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management from current operations, insufficient revenues to offset liabilities assumed and expenses associated with these new investments including development costs, inadequate return of capital on our investments, and unidentified issues not discovered in our due diligence of such opportunities. Because these new ventures are inherently risky, no assurance can be given that such strategies and offerings will be successful and will not adversely affect our reputation, financial condition, and operating results.If we are not able to generate sufficient cash to maintain and enhance our operations and to develop our real estate holdings, our results of operations, cash flows and financial position could be negatively impacted.We operate in a capital intensive industry and require significant cash to maintain our competitive position. Although we have significantly reduced capital expenditures and operating expenses, we will need significant cash in the future to maintain and enhance our operations and to develop our real estate holdings. We obtain funds for our operating expenses and capital expenditures through cash flow from operations, property sales and financings. Due to the historically low levels of cash generated by our operations, we are continuing to explore alternative methods or strategies for generating additional cash, such as the AgReserves Sale and RiverTown Community Sale. We cannot guarantee, however, that any of these alternative cash sources will be viable, significant or successful. Failure to obtain sufficient cash when needed may limit our development activities, cause us to further reduce our operations or cause us to sell desirable assets on unfavorable terms, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. If our cash flow proves to be insufficient, unanticipated expenses or otherwise, we may need to obtain additional financing from third-party lenders in order to support our plan of operations. Additional funding, whether obtained through public or private debt or equity financing, or from strategic alliances, may not be available when needed or may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all.Our business is subject to extensive regulation and growth management initiatives that may restrict, make more costly or otherwise adversely impact our ability to conduct our operations.Approval to develop real property in Florida entails an extensive entitlements process involving multiple and overlapping regulatory jurisdictions and often requiring discretionary action by local government. This process is often political, uncertain and may require significant exactions in order to secure approvals. Real estate projects in Florida must generally comply with the provisions of the Local Government Comprehensive Planning and Land Development Regulation Act (the “Growth Management Act”) and local land development regulations. In addition, development projects that exceed certain specified regulatory thresholds require approval of a comprehensive Development of Regional Impact, or DRI, application. Compliance with the Growth Management Act, local land development regulations and the DRI process is usually lengthy and costly and can be expected to materially affect our real estate development activities.The Growth Management Act requires local governments to adopt comprehensive plans guiding and controlling future real property development in their respective jurisdictions and to evaluate, assess and keep those plans current. Included in all comprehensive plans is a future land use map which sets forth allowable land use development rights. Since a lot of our land has an “agricultural” or “silviculture” future land use designation, we are required to seek an amendment to the future land use map to develop residential, commercial and mixed-use projects. Approval of these comprehensive plan map amendments is highly discretionary.15Table of ContentsAll development orders and development permits must be consistent with the comprehensive plan. Each plan must address such topics as future land use and capital improvements and make adequate provision for a multitude of public services including transportation, schools, solid waste disposal, sanitation, sewerage, potable water supply, drainage, affordable housing, open space and parks. The local governments’ comprehensive plans must also establish “levels of service” with respect to certain specified public facilities, including roads and schools, and services to residents. In many areas, infrastructure funding has not kept pace with growth, causing facilities to operate below established levels of service. Local governments are prohibited from issuing development orders or permits if the development will reduce the level of service for public facilities below the level of service established in the local government’s comprehensive plan, unless the developer either sufficiently improves the services up front to meet the required level or provides financial assurances that the additional services will be provided as the project progresses. In addition, local governments that fail to keep their plans current may be prohibited by law from amending their plans to allow for new development.Changes in the Growth Management Act or the DRI review process or the interpretation thereof, new enforcement of these laws or the enactment of new laws regarding the development of real property could lead to new or greater liabilities that could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial position.We are dependent upon homebuilders as customers, but our ability to attract homebuilder customers and their ability or willingness to satisfy their purchase commitments may be uncertain.We are highly dependent upon our relationships with homebuilders to be the primary customers for our homesites and to provide construction services at our residential developments. The homebuilder customers that have already committed to purchase homesites from us could decide to reduce, delay or cancel their existing commitments to purchase homesites in our developments. During 2013, we financed two sales to a homebuilder totaling eighty-one units in two of our Northwest Florida communities. If this homebuilder fails to pay its debt to us or delays paying us, it would reduce our anticipated cash flows. Homebuilders also may not view our developments as desirable locations for homebuilding operations, or they may choose to purchase land from distressed sellers. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial position.We are exposed to risks associated with real estate development that could adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.Our real estate development activities entail risks that could adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, including:•construction delays or cost overruns, which may increase project development costs;•claims for construction defects after property has been developed, including claims by purchasers and property owners’ associations;•an inability to obtain required governmental permits and authorizations;•an inability to secure tenants necessary to support commercial projects; and•compliance with building codes and other local regulations.Significant competition could have an adverse effect on our business.A number of residential and commercial developers, some with greater financial and other resources, compete with us in seeking resources for development and prospective purchasers and tenants. Competition from other real estate developers may adversely affect our ability to attract purchasers and sell residential and commercial real estate, sell undeveloped rural land and attract and retain experienced real estate development personnel.16Table of ContentsA number of highly competitive companies participate in the vacation rental industry. On January 1, 2014, we launched St. Joe Club & Resorts, a private membership club that will provide access to a diverse offering of benefits and privileges at certain of our owned and operated resort facilities. In addition, certain facilities will be private clubs and only members of St. Joe Club & Resorts and St. Joe Club & Resorts' registered guests will be eligible to play. Our ability to remain competitive and to attract and retain vacation rental owners and memberships depends on our success in distinguishing the quality and value of our products and services from those offered by others.In addition, the forestry business is highly competitive in terms of price and quality. Wood products are subject to increasing competition from a variety of substitute products, including non-wood and engineered wood products. There can be no assurance we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures we face in the markets in which we operate will not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.The loss of the services of our key management and personnel could adversely affect our business.Our ability to successfully implement our business strategy will depend on our ability to attract and retain experienced and knowledgeable management and other professional staff. There is no assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining key management personnel.Limitations on the access to the airport runway at the new Northwest Florida Beaches International Airport may have an adverse effect on the demand for our West Bay Sector lands adjacent to the new airport.Our land donation agreement with the airport authority and the deed for the airport land provide access rights to the airport runway from our adjacent lands. We subsequently entered into an access agreement with the airport authority that provides access to the airport runway. Under the terms of the access agreement, we are subject to certain requirements of the airport authority, including but not limited to the laws administered by the Federal Aviation Administration (the “FAA”), the Florida Department of Environmental Protection, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and Bay County. Should security measures at airports become more restrictive in the future due to circumstances beyond our control, FAA regulations governing these access rights may impose additional limitations that could significantly impair or restrict access rights.In addition, we are required to obtain environmental permits from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and Florida’s Department of Environmental Protection in order to develop the land necessary for access from our planned areas of commercial development to the airport runway. Such permits are often subject to a lengthy approval process, and there can be no assurance that such permits will be issued, or that they will be issued in a timely manner.We believe that runway access is a valuable attribute of some of our West Bay Sector lands adjacent to the new airport, and the failure to maintain such access, or the imposition of significant restrictions on such access, could adversely affect the demand for such lands and our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial position.Increases in property insurance premiums and decreases in availability of homeowner property insurance in Florida could reduce customer demand for homes and homesites in our developments.Homeowner property insurance companies doing business in Florida have reacted to previous hurricanes by increasing premiums, requiring higher deductibles, reducing limits, restricting coverage, imposing exclusions, refusing to insure certain property owners, and in some instances, ceasing insurance operations in the state. It is uncertain what effect these actions may have on property insurance availability and rates in the state.Furthermore, Florida’s state-owned property insurance company, Citizens Property Insurance Corp., underwrites homeowner property insurance. If there were to be a catastrophic hurricane or series of hurricanes to hit Florida, the exposure of the state government to property insurance claims could place extreme stress on state finances.17Table of ContentsThe high costs of property insurance premiums in Florida could deter potential customers from purchasing a home or homesite in one of our developments or make Northwest Florida less attractive to new employers that can create high quality jobs needed to spur growth in the region, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial position.Failure to maintain the integrity of internal or customer data could result in faulty business decisions, damage of reputation and/or subject us to costs, fines or lawsuits.For a number of years, we have been increasing our reliance on computers and digital technology. Our business requires the collection and retention of large volumes of internal and customer data, including credit card numbers and other personally identifiable information of our employees and customers as such information is entered into, processed, summarized, and reported by the various information systems we use. All of these activities give rise to material cyber risks and potential costs and consequences that cannot be estimated or predicted with any certainty. The integrity and protection of that customer, employee, and company data is critical to us. Our customers have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information, and this information is entitled to protection under a number of regulatory regimes. Our failure to maintain the security of the data which we are required to protect, including via the penetration of our network security and the misappropriation of confidential and personal information, could result in business disruption, damage to our reputation, fines, penalties, regulatory proceedings, and other severe financial and business implications.A decline in consumers’ discretionary spending or a change in consumer preferences could reduce our sales and harm our business.Our resorts and leisure business' sales ultimately depend on consumer discretionary spending, which is influenced by factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions, the availability of discretionary income and credit, weather, consumer confidence and unemployment levels. Any material decline in the amount of consumer discretionary spending could reduce our sales and harm our business. These economic and market conditions, combined with continuing difficulties in the credit markets and the resulting pressures on liquidity, may also place a number of our key customers under financial stress, which would could adversely affect our occupancy rates and our profitability.Our commercial leasing projects may not yield anticipated returns, which could harm our operating results, reduce cash flow, or the ability to sell commercial assets.A component of our business strategy is the development of commercial properties and assets for sale. These developments may not be as successful as expected due to the commercial leasing related risks, as well as the risks associated with real estate development, generally. Additionally, development of commercial projects involves the risk associated with the significant time lag between commencement and completion of the project. This time lag subjects us to greater risks relating to fluctuations in the general economy, our ability to obtain construction or permanent financing on favorable terms, if at all, our ability to achieve projected rental rates, the pace that we will be able to lease new tenants, higher than estimated construction costs (including labor and material costs), and delays in the completion of projects because of, among other factors, inclement weather, labor disruptions, construction delays or delays in receiving zoning or other regulatory approvals, or man-made or natural disasters.18Table of ContentsMortgage financing issues, including lack of supply of mortgage loans, tightened lending requirements and possible future increases in interest rates, could reduce demand for our products.Many purchasers of our real estate products obtain mortgage loans to finance a substantial portion of the purchase price, or they may need to obtain mortgage loans to finance the construction costs of homes to be built on homesites purchased from us. Also, our homebuilder customers depend on retail purchasers who rely on mortgage financing. Many mortgage lenders and investors in mortgage loans have recently experienced severe financial difficulties arising from losses incurred on sub-prime and other loans originated before the downturn in the real estate market. Additionally, the mortgage industry remains under intense scrutiny and continues to face increasing regulation at federal, state, and local levels, such as recent and proposed changes to the Federal Housing Administration’s rules to require increased Borrower FICO scores, increased down payment amounts, and limiting the amount of permitted seller concessions. Because of these problems, the supply of mortgage products has been constrained, and the eligibility requirements for borrowers have been significantly tightened. These problems in the mortgage lending industry could adversely affect potential purchasers of our products, including our homebuilder customers, thus having a negative effect on demand for our products.Despite the current problems in the mortgage lending industry, interest rates for home mortgage loans have generally remained low. Mortgage interest rates could increase in the future, however, which could adversely affect the demand for residential real estate. In addition to residential real estate, increased interest rates and restrictions in the availability of credit could also negatively impact sales of our commercial properties or other land we offer for sale. If interest rates increase and the ability or willingness of prospective buyers to finance real estate purchases is adversely affected, our sales, results of operations, cash flows and financial position may be negatively affected.Tax law changes could make home ownership more expensive or less attractive.Historically, significant expenses of owning a home, including mortgage interest expense and real estate taxes, generally have been deductible expenses for the purpose of calculating an individual’s federal, and in some cases state, taxable income as itemized deductions. The Federal government has been considering eliminating some deductions, or limiting the tax benefit of deductions, with regard to people with incomes above specified levels. As part of the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, enacted on January 1, 2013, beginning in 2013 certain taxpayers will have their itemized deductions limited. Such limits will increase the after-tax cost of owning a home, which is likely to impact adversely the demand for homes and could reduce the prices for which we can sell homes, particularly in higher priced communities.19Table of ContentsIf The Fairholme Funds or Fairholme Capital Management, L.L.C. controls us within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, we may be unable to engage in transactions with potential strategic partners, which could adversely affect our business.The Fairholme Fund (“Fairholme”) (a series of Fairholme Funds, Inc. an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the “Investment Company Act”)) has the right to vote as of December 31, 2013 approximately 25.8% of our outstanding common stock. Fairholme Capital Management, L.L.C. (“Fairholme Capital”), which controls Fairholme, is the investment adviser of accounts that in the aggregate own, as of December 31, 2013, an additional 1.3% of our common stock. Bruce R. Berkowitz, the Managing Member of Fairholme Capital Management, L.L.C., and the President of Fairholme Funds, Inc., is the Chairman of our Board of Directors. Under the Investment Company Act, “control” means the power to exercise a controlling influence over the management or policies of a company, unless such power is solely the result of an official position with such company. Any person who owns beneficially, either directly or through one or more controlled companies, more than 25% of the outstanding voting securities of a company is presumed to control such company. The SEC has considered factors other than ownership of voting securities in determining control, including an official position with the company when such was obtained as a result of the influence over the company. Accordingly, even if Fairholme’s beneficial ownership in us is below 25% of our outstanding voting securities, Fairholme may nevertheless be deemed to control us. The Investment Company Act generally prohibits a company controlled by an investment company from engaging in certain transactions with any affiliate of the investment company or affiliates of the affiliate, subject to limited exceptions. An affiliate of an investment company is defined in the Investment Company Act as, among other things, any company 5% or more of whose outstanding voting securities are directly or indirectly owned, controlled, or held with power to vote, by the investment company, a company directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common control with, the investment company or a company directly or indirectly owning, controlling, or holding with power to vote, 5% or more of the outstanding voting securities of the investment company.We believe that Fairholme is currently affiliated with a number of entities, including Bank of America Corp., Federal National Mortgage Association, Federal Home Loan Corp., Imperial Metals Corporation, Leucadia National Corporation, Sears Holdings Corporation, and American International Group Inc. Due to these affiliations, should Fairholme be deemed to control us, we may be prohibited from engaging in certain transactions with these entities and certain of their affiliates and any future affiliates of Fairholme, unless one of the limited exceptions applies. This could adversely affect our ability to enter into transactions freely and compete in the marketplace. In addition, significant penalties and other consequences may arise as a result of a violation for companies found to be in violation of the Investment Company Act.We may not be able to benefit from our net operating loss carryforwards and changes in our income tax estimates could affect our profitability.In preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements, significant management judgment is required to estimate our income taxes. Our estimates are based on our interpretation of federal and state tax laws. We estimate our actual current tax due and assess temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes. The temporary differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Adjustments may be required by a change in assessment of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes due to audit adjustments by federal and state tax authorities, and changes in tax laws and rates. To the extent adjustments are required in any given period, we include the adjustments in the deferred tax assets and liabilities in our Consolidated Financial Statements. These adjustments could materially impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. 20Table of ContentsIn prior years, we have suffered losses, for tax and financial statement purposes, which generated significant federal and state net operating loss carryforwards. These may be used against future taxable income in future periods; however, we will not receive any tax benefits with regard to tax losses incurred except to the extent we have taxable income in the twenty year net operating loss carryforward period. Based on the timing of reversals of our existing taxable temporary differences and our history of losses, management does not believe that the requirements to realize the benefits of certain of our deferred tax assets have been met; therefore, we have maintained a valuation allowance against a portion of our deferred tax assets in our Consolidated Financial Statements as of December 31, 2013. However, a portion of those reserves will likely be reversed if the AgReserves Sale is consummated. If the AgReserves Sale closes, we may utilize our federal net operating loss carryforwards and a significant portion our state net operating loss carryforwards. As a result, we may be required to pay federal income taxes in cash in the near future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Decreases in the market value of our investments in marketable securities could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.As of December 31, 2013, we have $147.0 million of investments in U.S. treasury securities and corporate debt securities, and the market value of these investments is subject to change from period to period. The issuers of our corporate debt securities are two national retail chains and are non-investment grade. Furthermore, during periods of financial stress, the value of these investments could come under pressure. Decreases in the value of these investments could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.We guarantee debt for our Pier Park North joint venture, and may in the future enter into similar agreements, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.We have agreed to provide certain guarantees in connection with our Pier Park North joint venture, and may in the future agree to similar agreements. Our Pier Park North joint venture has entered into a $41 million construction loan for that matures in February 2016. Pursuant to the construction loan, we have provided the following guarantees: (i) a completion guarantee until substantial completion; (ii) a principal repayment guarantee limited to 33% of the outstanding balance of the loan; (iii) a guarantee covering, among other things, operating deficits and accrued and unpaid interest; and (iv) customary non-recourse covenants covering items like misrepresentation, misappropriation of funds and fraud. If we were to become obligated to perform on any guarantees, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.Our ability to harvest and deliver timber may be subject to limitations which could adversely affect our operations.Weather conditions, timber growth cycles, access limitations and regulatory requirements associated with the protection of wildlife and water resources may restrict harvesting of timberlands. In addition, our timber is subject to damage by fire, insect infestation, disease, prolonged drought, flooding and other natural disasters. Changes in global climate conditions could intensify one or more of these factors. Although damage from such natural causes usually is localized and affects only a limited percentage of the timber, there can be no assurance that any damage affecting our timberlands will in fact be so limited. As is common in the forest products industry, we do not maintain insurance coverage with respect to damage to our timberlands. Our revenues, net income and cash flow from operations are dependent to a significant extent on the pricing of our products and our continued ability to harvest timber at adequate levels.21Table of ContentsIf the RockTenn mill in Panama City were to permanently cease operations, the price we receive for our pine pulpwood may decline, and the cost of delivering logs to alternative customers could increase.In July of 2010, Smurfit-Stone, who was the owner of the Panama City mill, emerged from approximately eighteen months of bankruptcy protection, and during the first quarter of 2011, RockTenn announced its acquisition of Smurfit-Stone. Deliveries made by us during Smurfit-Stone’s bankruptcy proceedings were uninterrupted and payments were made on time. A significant portion of the revenue from our forestry segment is generated pursuant to our RockTenn Supply Agreement, under which we sell delivered wood (trees that we cut and deliver). Under the terms of the RockTenn Supply Agreement, Smurfit-Stone and its successor RockTenn would be liable for any monetary damages as a result of the closure of the mill due to economic reasons for a period of one year. Nevertheless, if the RockTenn mill in Panama City were to permanently cease operations, the price for stumpage and delivered wood may decline, and the cost of delivering logs to alternative customers would increase. As part of the AgReserves Sale, the RockTenn Supply Agreement will be assumed by AgReserves.Risks Relating to the Proposed Sale TransactionsFailure to complete the Proposed Sale Transactions could negatively impact our share price, our future business and financial results.We cannot assure you that the AgReserves Sale will be approved by our shareholders or that the other conditions to the completion of the AgReserves Sale or the conditions to the RiverTown Sale will be satisfied. If the AgReserves Sale or RiverTown Sale (collectively the “Proposed Sale Transactions”) is not completed, we will not receive any of the expected benefits of such Proposed Sale Transactions and we will be subject to risks and/or liabilities, including the following: (i) failure to complete the AgReserves Sale or the RiverTown Sale might be followed by a decline in the market price of our common stock; (ii) pursuant to the AgReserves Sale we may be required, under certain circumstances, to reimburse AgReserves costs and expenses or pay AgReserves a termination fee of approximately $21 million; (iii) certain costs relating to the Proposed Sale Transactions (such as legal, accounting, financial advisory and broker fees) are payable by us whether or not the related Proposed Sale Transactions are completed; (iv) the AgReserves Sale or the RiverTown Sale may make it more difficult for us to maintain our relationships with contractors, customers or employees (including key personnel), whether or not the AgReserves Sale or the RiverTown Sale are consummated; and (v) unexpected costs or unexpected liabilities (including litigation) may arise from either of the Proposed Sale Transactions, whether or not consummated.Upon the consummation of the AgReserves Sale, our business will become more dependent upon the real estate industry and the cyclical nature of our real estate operations could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and stock price.Upon consummation of the AgReserves Sale, our future performance will be dependent upon our ability to grow our other operating segments, including our (1) residential real estate, (2) commercial real estate and (3) resorts, leisure and leasing segments. In the past, timber sales have not been as susceptible to cyclical changes as compared to the real estate industry. Upon the consummation of the AgReserves Sale, our dependence on the real estate industry will increase significantly.The real estate industry is cyclical and can experience downturns based on consumer perceptions of real estate markets and other cyclical factors, which factors may work in conjunction with or be wholly unrelated to general economic conditions. Furthermore, our business is affected by seasonal fluctuations in customers interested in purchasing real estate, with the spring and summer months traditionally being the most active time of year for customer traffic and sales in Northwest Florida. Also, our supply of homesites available for purchase fluctuates from time to time. As a result, our real estate operations are cyclical, which may cause our quarterly revenues and results of operations to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and to differ from the expectations of public market analysts and investors. If this occurs, the trading price of our stock could also fluctuate significantly.22Table of ContentsManagement will have discretion as to the use of the proceeds from the Proposed Sale Transactions and may not use the proceeds effectively.We have not designated the amount of net proceeds we will receive from the Proposed Sale Transactions for any particular purpose. Our management will have discretion in the application of the net proceeds from the Proposed Sale Transactions and could spend the proceeds in ways that do not improve our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition or enhance the value of our common stock. The failure by our management to apply these funds effectively could result in financial losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and cause the price of our common stock to decline. Pending their use, we may invest the net proceeds in a manner that does not produce income or that loses value.We intend to invest the Proposed Sale Transaction's proceeds such that we will not have to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. As a result, we may be unable to make some potentially profitable investments.We have not registered, and we intend to invest the Proposed Sale Transaction's proceeds such that we will not have to register, as an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act. This will require monitoring our portfolio so that (a) we will not have more than 40% percent of total assets (excluding U.S. government securities and cash items) in investment securities or (b) we will meet and maintain another exemption from registration. As a result, we may be (1) unable to make some potentially profitable investments, (2) unable to sell assets we would otherwise want to sell or (3) forced to sell investments in investment securities before we would otherwise want to do so.The Proposed Sale Transactions, whether or not consummated, may adversely affect our business.The Proposed Sale Transactions, whether or not consummated, may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, our business or our relationships with customers, partners, suppliers and employees. Our management’s focus and attention and employee resources may be diverted from operational matters during the pendency of the Proposed Sale Transactions. Additionally, pursuant to the AgReserves Sale, we may be required, in certain circumstances, to reimburse AgReserves’ costs and expenses or pay AgReserves a break-up fee of $21.2 million, and certain costs relating to the Proposed Sale Transactions (such as our legal, accounting, financial advisory and broker fees) are payable by us whether or not either of the Proposed Sale Transactions is completed. Unexpected costs or unexpected liabilities (including litigation) may also arise from the Proposed Sale Transactions, whether or not the Proposed Sale Transactions are consummated. The Proposed Sale Transactions, whether or not consummated, could therefore negatively impact our share price and our future business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.We cannot be sure if or when the Proposed Sale Transactions will be completed.The consummation of each of the Proposed Sale Transactions is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of various conditions, including, with respect to the AgReserves Sale, the approval of our shareholders. Furthermore, Mattamy has the right to terminate the RiverTown Sale, in its sole and absolute discretion, prior to the expiration of the inspection period on February 28, 2014. We cannot guarantee that these closing conditions will be satisfied. If the closing conditions are not satisfied, the Proposed Sale Transactions may not be completed.The anticipated benefits from the Proposed Sale Transactions may not be realized, may take longer to realize than expected, or may cost more to achieve than expected.We believe that the Proposed Sale Transactions will, among other things, help us concentrate on our core business activity of real estate development in Northwest Florida and provide us with significant liquidity and opportunities to create long-term value for our shareholders. We may, however, encounter substantial difficulties in achieving these anticipated benefits, which may not materialize.23Table of ContentsThe Proposed Sale Transactions limit our ability to sell the land expected to be sold to other parties.The Proposed Sale Transactions contain provisions that make it more difficult for us to sell the land expected to be sold to other parties, including no solicitation provisions and provisions requiring us to notify the purchaser(s) of any solicitation or offer made by any third party in connection with the sale of the land expected to be sold or any similar transaction. Additionally, pursuant to the AgReserves Sale, we may be required, in certain circumstances, to reimburse AgReserves’s costs and expenses or pay AgReserves a break-up fee of $21.2 million. These provisions could discourage a third party that might have an interest in acquiring all of or a significant part of the land expected to be sold from considering or proposing such an acquisition.The Proposed Sale Transactions may expose us to contingent liabilities.We have agreed to indemnify AgReserves and certain indemnities against any loss (subject to certain exceptions) incurred by them as a result of the following: (1) a breach by us of certain representations or warranties contained in the AgReserves Sale or any ancillary agreement; (2) any breach of any agreement, term, provision, condition, obligation, or covenant to be performed or satisfied by us pursuant to the AgReserves Sale; (3) any third-party personal injury or tort claims regarding our use, ownership or operation of the land included in the AgReserves Sale (or any party thereof) prior to the closing but excluding assumed liabilities and any released environmental claims; (4) any claim arising from assumed contracts relating to any act or omission prior to the date of closing; and (5) any claim arising from an inaccuracy or material default alleged in any seller estoppel certificate.Subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the RiverTown Sale, we have agreed to indemnify Mattamy from certain losses, including for any pre-closing defaults under certain contracts. Additionally, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the RiverTown Sale, Mattamy is entitled to seek all available remedies against us for any material misrepresentation made by us in our representations and warranties and any default by us as to any of its agreements or matters that are to be performed under the RiverTown Sale, as well as, specific performance in certain circumstances.Significant indemnification claims by AgReserves or Mattamy could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.