Item 1A. Risk Factors The following are what we believe to be the principal risks that could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies and prospects. A continued downturn in the demand for real estate, combined with the increase in the supply of real estate available for sale and declining prices, will continue to adversely impact our business. The United States housing market continues to experience a significant downturn. Florida, one of the hardest hit states, has experienced a substantial, continuing decline in demand in most of its residential real estate markets. The collapse of the housing market contributed to the recent recession in the national economy, which exerted further downward pressure on real estate demand. Significantly tighter lending standards for borrowers are also having a significant negative effect on demand. A record number of homes in foreclosure and forced sales by homeowners under distressed economic conditions are significantly contributing to the high levels of inventories of homes and homesites available for sale. The collapse of real estate demand and high levels of inventories has caused land and other real estate prices to significantly decline. These adverse market conditions have negatively affected our real estate products. Revenues from our residential and commercial real estate segments have drastically declined in the past several years, which has had an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our lack of revenues reflects not only fewer sales, but also declining prices for our residential and commercial real estate products. We have also seen lower demand and pricing weakness in our rural land sales segment. We do not know how long the downturn in the real estate market will last; whether it will worsen or when real estate markets will return to more normal conditions. Unemployment, lack of consumer confidence and other adverse consequences of the recent economic recession could significantly delay a recovery in real estate markets. Our business will continue to suffer until market conditions improve. If market conditions were to worsen, the demand for our real estate products could further decline, negatively impacting our earnings, cash flow, liquidity and financial condition. A further downturn in national or regional economic conditions, especially in Florida, could adversely impact our business. The recent collapse of the housing market and crisis in the credit markets resulted in a recession in the national economy, after which high unemployment, decreased levels of gross domestic product and significantly reduced consumer spending have persisted. During such times, potential customers often defer or avoid real estate purchases due to the substantial costs involved. Furthermore, a significant percentage of our planned residential units are resort and seasonal products, purchases of which are even more sensitive to adverse economic conditions. Businesses and developers are also less willing to invest in commercial projects during a recession. Our real estate sales, revenues, financial condition and results of operations have suffered as a result. Florida, as one of the states hardest hit by the recent recession and lingering economic downturn, could take longer to recover than the rest of the nation. Our business is especially sensitive to economic conditions in Northwest Florida, where all of our developments are located, and the Southeast region of the United States, which in the past has produced a high percentage of customers for the resort and seasonal products in our Northwest Florida communities. We expect the prolonged effects of the recent recession to continue to have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 9 Table of Contents Our business is concentrated in Northwest Florida. As a result, our long-term financial results are largely dependent on the economic growth of Northwest Florida. The economic growth of Northwest Florida, where most of our land is located, is an important factor in creating demand for our products and services. Two important factors in the economic growth of the region are the completion of significant infrastructure improvements and the creation of new jobs. The economic growth of Northwest Florida depends upon state and local governments, in combination with the private sector, to plan and complete significant infrastructure improvements in the region, such as new roads, medical facilities and schools. The future economic growth of Northwest Florida and our financial results may be adversely affected if its infrastructure is not improved. There can be no assurance that new improvements will occur or that existing projects will be completed. Attracting significant new employers that can create new, high-quality jobs is also a key factor in the economic growth of Northwest Florida. Northwest Florida has traditionally lagged behind the rest of Florida in economic growth, and as a result its residents have a lower per capita income than residents in other parts of the state. In order to improve the economy of the region, state and local governments, along with the private sector, must seek to attract large employers capable of paying high salaries to large numbers of new employees. State governments, particularly in the Southeast, and local governments within Florida compete intensely for new jobs. There can be no assurance that efforts to attract significant new employers to locate facilities in Northwest Florida will be successful or that new employees will want to locate their businesses in Northwest Florida. The future economic growth of Northwest Florida and our financial results may be adversely affected if substantial job growth is not achieved. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash to maintain and enhance our operations and to develop our real estate holdings, our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted. We operate in a capital intensive industry and require significant cash to maintain our competitive position. Although we have significantly reduced capital expenditures and operating expenses during the current real estate downturn, we will need significant cash in the future to maintain and enhance our operations and to develop our real estate holdings. We obtain funds for our operating expenses and capital expenditures through cash flow from operations, property sales and financings. Due to the low levels of cash currently generated by our operations, we are continuing to explore alternative methods or strategies for generating additional cash, such as ways to maximize the use of our timber. We cannot guarantee, however, that any of these alternative cash sources will be viable, significant or successful. Failure to obtain sufficient cash when needed may limit our development activities, cause us to further reduce our operations or cause us to sell desirable assets on unfavorable terms, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, and results of operations. If our cash flow proves to be insufficient, due to the continuing real estate downturn, unanticipated expenses or otherwise, we may need to obtain additional financing from third-party lenders in order to support our plan of operations. Additional funding, whether obtained through public or private debt or equity financing, or from strategic alliances, may not be available when needed or may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. The Deepwater Horizon oil spill has had, and future oil spill incidents could have, an adverse impact on our properties, results of operations and stock price. In April 2010, the Deepwater Horizon drilling platform exploded and sank in the Gulf of Mexico off the coast of Louisiana causing a massive oil spill. Millions of barrels of oil were released into the Gulf of Mexico over a period of months causing widespread environmental damage. The ruptured oil well was permanently contained in September 2010. Much uncertainty remains, however, about the extent of the environmental damage from the oil and other pollutants that have been discharged into the Gulf and the duration of the negative effects from the spill. Although the full economic and environmental effects of the oil spill are uncertain at this time, we believe that it has had a negative impact on our properties, results of operations and stock price as well as a delaying effect in the timing of some of our initiatives. Future oil spill incidents, or the prospect of future oil spill incidents, could also negatively affect our properties, results of operations and stock price. 10 Table of Contents To date, federal and state laws have prevented the construction of unsightly drilling platforms off the coast of Florida and have preserved the natural beauty of the state’s coastline and beaches. This natural coastal beauty is an important positive factor in Florida’s tourist-based economy and contributes significantly to the value of our properties in Northwest Florida. If drilling platforms are permitted to be built off the coast of Northwest Florida, potential purchasers may find our coastal properties to be less attractive, or may perceive greater risks from possible future oil spills, which may have an adverse effect on our business. We have significant operations and properties in Florida that could be materially and adversely affected in the event of a hurricane, natural disaster or other significant disruption. The risk of hurricanes could also negatively impact demand for our real estate products. Our corporate headquarters and our properties are located in Florida, where major hurricanes have occurred. Because of its location between the Gulf of Mexico and the Atlantic Ocean, Florida is particularly susceptible to the occurrence of hurricanes. Depending on where any particular hurricane makes landfall, our developments in Florida, especially our coastal properties in Northwest Florida, could experience significant, if not catastrophic, damage. Such damage could materially delay sales in affected communities or could lessen demand for products in those communities. If our corporate headquarters facility is damaged or destroyed, we may have difficulty performing certain corporate and operational functions. Importantly, regardless of actual damage to a development, the occurrence and frequency of hurricanes in Florida and the southeastern United States could negatively impact demand for our real estate products because of consumer perceptions of hurricane risks. For example, the southeastern United States experienced a record-setting hurricane season in 2005, including Hurricane Katrina, which caused severe devastation to New Orleans and the Mississippi Gulf Coast and received prolonged national media attention. Although our properties were not significantly impacted, we believe that the 2005 hurricane season had an immediate negative impact on sales of our resort residential products. Another severe hurricane or hurricane season in the future could have a similar negative effect on our real estate sales. In addition to hurricanes, the occurrence of other natural disasters and climate conditions in Florida, such as tornadoes, floods, fires, unusually heavy or prolonged rain, droughts and heat waves, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to develop and sell properties or realize income from our projects. Furthermore, an increase in sea levels due to long-term global warming could have a material adverse effect on our coastal properties. The occurrence of natural disasters and the threat of adverse climate changes could also have a long-term negative effect on the attractiveness of Florida as a location for resort, seasonal and/or primary residences and as a location for new employers that can create high-quality jobs needed to spur growth in Northwest Florida. Additionally, we are susceptible to manmade disasters or disruptions, such as oil spills, acts of terrorism, power outages and communications failures. If a hurricane, natural disaster or other significant disruption occurs, we may experience disruptions to our operations and properties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and our results of operations. If the new Northwest Florida Beaches International Airport is not successful, we may not realize the economic benefits that we are anticipating from the new airport. We believe that the recent relocation of the Panama City-Bay County International Airport is critically important to the overall economic development of Northwest Florida and our ability to develop the property we own surrounding the airport, as well as our other properties throughout Northwest Florida. As a result, we entered into a strategic alliance agreement with Southwest Airlines to facilitate the commencement of low-fare air service into the new airport. Pursuant to the terms of the agreement, we have agreed to reimburse Southwest Airlines if it incurs losses on its service at the new airport during the first three years of service. The airport must successfully compete with the other airports in the region, including Pensacola, Destin and Tallahassee, and Dothan, Alabama. There can be no assurance that the region can support all of the existing airports. 11 Table of Contents If the airport fails to successfully compete with the other airports in the regions, we may not realize the economic benefits that we are anticipating from the new airport. Furthermore, we could be required to reimburse Southwest, which could adversely affect our results of operations. If Southwest Airlines’ service at the new airport is unsuccessful, the new airport will be impacted and we may not realize the economic benefits that we anticipate from the new airport, or we may be required pursuant to our agreement with Southwest Airlines to reimburse Southwest for some of its losses. Limitations on the access to the airport runway at the new Northwest Florida Beaches International Airport may have an adverse effect on the demand for our West Bay Sector lands adjacent to the new airport and our results of operations. Our land donation agreement with the airport authority and the deed for the airport land provide access rights to the airport runway from our adjacent lands. We subsequently entered into an access agreement with the airport authority that provides access to the airport runway. Under the terms of the access agreement, we are subject to certain requirements of the airport authority, including but not limited to the laws administered by the Federal Aviation Administration (the “FAA”), the Florida Department of Environmental Protection, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Bay County and Panama City. Should security measures at airports become more restrictive in the future due to circumstances beyond our control, FAA regulations governing these access rights may impose additional limitations that could significantly impair or restrict access rights. In addition, we are required to obtain environmental permits from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and Florida’s Department of Environmental Protection in order to develop the land necessary for access from our planned areas of commercial development to the airport runway. Such permits are often subject to a lengthy approval process, and there can be no assurance that such permits will be issued, or that they will be issued in a timely manner. We believe that runway access is a valuable attribute of some of our West Bay Sector lands adjacent to the new airport, and the failure to maintain such access, or the imposition of significant restrictions on such access, could adversely affect the demand for such lands and our results of operations. Changes in the demographics affecting projected population growth in Florida, particularly Northwest Florida, including a decrease in the migration of Baby Boomers, could adversely affect our business. Florida has experienced strong population growth since World War II, including during the real estate boom in the first half of the last decade. In recent years, however, the rate of net migration into Florida has drastically declined. The significant decline in the rate of in-migration could reflect a number of factors affecting Florida, including difficult economic conditions, rising foreclosures, restrictive credit, the occurrence of hurricanes and increased costs of living. Also, because of the housing collapse across the nation, people interested in moving to Florida may have delayed or cancelled their plans due to difficulties selling their existing homes. The success of our primary communities will be dependent on strong in-migration population expansion in our regions of development, primarily Northwest Florida. We also believe that Baby Boomers seeking retirement or vacation homes in Florida will remain important target customers for our real estate products in the future. Florida’s population growth could be negatively affected in the future by factors such as adverse economic conditions, the occurrence of hurricanes or oil spills and the high cost of real estate, insurance and property taxes. Furthermore, those persons considering moving to Florida may not view Northwest Florida as an attractive place to live or own a second home and may choose to live in another region of the state. In addition, as an alternative to Florida, other states such as Georgia, North and South Carolina and Tennessee are increasingly becoming retirement destinations and are attracting retiring Baby Boomers and the workforce population who may have otherwise considered moving to Florida. If Florida, especially Northwest Florida, experiences an extended period of slow growth, or even net out-migration, our business, results of operations and financial condition would suffer. 12 Table of Contents We are dependent upon national, regional and local homebuilders as customers, but our ability to attract homebuilder customers and their ability or willingness to satisfy their purchase commitments may be uncertain considering the current real estate downturn. We no longer build homes in our developments, so we are highly dependent upon our relationships with national, regional and local homebuilders to be the primary customers for our homesites and to provide construction services at our residential developments. Because of the collapse of real estate markets across the nation, including our markets, homebuilders are struggling to survive and are significantly less willing to purchase homesites and invest capital in speculative construction. The homebuilder customers that have already committed to purchase homesites from us could decide to reduce, delay or cancel their existing commitments to purchase homesites in our developments. Homebuilders also may not view our developments as desirable locations for homebuilding operations, or they may choose, in light of current market conditions, to purchase land from distressed sellers. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our business model is dependent on transactions with strategic partners. We may not be able to successfully (1) attract desirable strategic partners; (2) complete agreements with strategic partners, and/or (3) manage relationships with strategic partners going forward, any of which could adversely affect our business. We are actively seeking strategic partners for alliances or joint venture relationships as part of our overall strategy for particular developments or regions. These joint venture partners may bring development experience, industry expertise, financial resources, financing capabilities, brand recognition and credibility or other competitive assets. We cannot assure, however, that we will have sufficient resources, experience and/or skills to locate desirable partners. We also may not be able to attract partners who want to conduct business in Northwest Florida, our primary area of focus, and who have the assets, reputation or other characteristics that would optimize our development opportunities. Once a partner has been identified, actually reaching an agreement on a transaction may be difficult to complete and may take a considerable amount of time considering that negotiations require careful balancing of the parties’ various objectives, assets, skills and interests. A formal partnership with a joint venture partner may also involve special risks such as: • we may not have voting control over the joint venture; • the venture partner may take actions contrary to our instructions or requests, or contrary to our policies or objectives with respect to the real estate investments; • the venture partner could experience financial difficulties, and • actions by a venture partner may subject property owned by the joint venture to liabilities greater than those contemplated by the joint venture agreement or have other adverse consequences. Joint ventures can have a high failure rate. A key complicating factor is that strategic partners may have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours or that are influenced by factors unrelated to our business. These competing interests lead to the difficult challenges of successfully managing the relationship and communication between strategic partners and monitoring the execution of the partnership plan. We cannot assure that we will have sufficient resources, experience and/or skills to effectively manage our ongoing relationships with our strategic partners. We may also be subject to adverse business consequences if the market reputation of a strategic partner deteriorates. If we cannot successfully execute transactions with strategic partners, our business could be adversely affected. If the fair values of our homes, or the undiscounted cash flows of certain other real estate assets were to drop below the book value of those properties, we would be required to further write down the book value of those properties, which would have an adverse effect on our balance sheet and our earnings. If market conditions were to continue to deteriorate, and the fair values for our homes, or the undiscounted cash flows of other properties, were to fall below the book value of these assets we could be required to take further write-downs of the book value of those assets. 13 Table of Contents A securities class action lawsuit is pending against us involving our past public disclosures, and the outcome of this lawsuit and any related derivative lawsuits that may be filed in the future could have an adverse effect on our business and stock price. Two securities class action lawsuits were filed against us and certain of our officers and directors, relating to our past disclosures and alleging, among other things, violations of the securities laws. These two lawsuits have been consolidated into one case. There have also been additional derivative lawsuits filed by shareholders relating to the same matters described in the securities class action suit. We cannot predict the outcome of the pending lawsuit or any future lawsuits. Substantial damages or other monetary remedies assessed against us could have an adverse effect on our business and stock price. An adverse outcome of the investigation being conducted by the SEC could have an adverse effect on our business and stock price. In January 2011, the SEC commenced an informal inquiry into our accounting practices for impairment of investment in real estate assets and then notified us in June of 2011 that it had issued a related order of private investigation. We intend to fully cooperate with the SEC in connection with this matter. We are unable to predict the outcome of the SEC investigation. An adverse outcome of the investigation by the SEC could have an adverse effect on our business and stock price. We are exposed to risks associated with real estate development that could adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Our real estate development activities entail risks that could adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, including: • construction delays or cost overruns, which may increase project development costs; • claims for construction defects after property has been developed, including claims by purchasers and property owners’ associations; • an inability to obtain required governmental permits and authorizations; • an inability to secure tenants necessary to support commercial projects, and • compliance with building codes and other local regulations. Significant competition could have an adverse effect on our business. A number of residential and commercial developers, some with greater financial and other resources, compete with us in seeking resources for development and prospective purchasers and tenants. Competition from other real estate developers may adversely affect our ability to: • attract purchasers and sell residential and commercial real estate; • sell undeveloped rural land; • attract and retain experienced real estate development personnel; and • obtain construction materials and labor. The cyclical nature of our real estate operations could adversely affect our results of operations. The real estate industry is cyclical and can experience downturns based on consumer perceptions of real estate markets and other cyclical factors, which factors may work in conjunction with or be wholly unrelated to general economic conditions. Furthermore, our business is affected by seasonal fluctuations in customers interested in 14 Table of Contents purchasing real estate, with the spring and summer months traditionally being the most active time of year for customer traffic and sales. Also, our supply of homesites available for purchase fluctuates from time to time. As a result, our real estate operations are cyclical, which may cause our quarterly revenues and operating results to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and to differ from the expectations of public market analysts and investors. If this occurs, the trading price of our stock could also fluctuate significantly. Our business is subject to extensive regulation that may restrict, make more costly or otherwise adversely impact our ability to conduct our operations. Approval to develop real property in Florida entails an extensive entitlements process involving multiple and overlapping regulatory jurisdictions and often requiring discretionary action by local government. This process is often political, uncertain and may require significant exactions in order to secure approvals. Real estate projects in Florida must generally comply with the provisions of the Local Government Comprehensive Planning and Land Development Regulation Act (the “Growth Management Act”) and local land development regulations. In addition, development projects that exceed certain specified regulatory thresholds require approval of a comprehensive Development of Regional Impact, or DRI, application. Compliance with the Growth Management Act, local land development regulations and the DRI process is usually lengthy and costly and can be expected to materially affect our real estate development activities. The Growth Management Act requires local governments to adopt comprehensive plans guiding and controlling future real property development in their respective jurisdictions and to evaluate, assess and keep those plans current. Included in all comprehensive plans is a future land use map which sets forth allowable land use development rights. Since most of our land has an “agricultural” land use, we are required to seek an amendment to the future land use map to develop residential, commercial and mixed-use projects. Approval of these comprehensive plan map amendments is highly discretionary. All development orders and development permits must be consistent with the comprehensive plan. Each plan must address such topics as future land use and capital improvements and make adequate provision for a multitude of public services including transportation, schools, solid waste disposal, sanitation, sewerage, potable water supply, drainage, affordable housing, open space and parks. The local governments’ comprehensive plans must also establish “levels of service” with respect to certain specified public facilities, including roads and schools, and services to residents. In many areas, infrastructure funding has not kept pace with growth, causing facilities to operate below established levels of service. Local governments are prohibited from issuing development orders or permits if the development will reduce the level of service for public facilities below the level of service established in the local government’s comprehensive plan, unless the developer either sufficiently improves the services up front to meet the required level or provides financial assurances that the additional services will be provided as the project progresses. In addition, local governments that fail to keep their plans current may be prohibited by law from amending their plans to allow for new development. Changes in the Growth Management Act or the DRI review process or the interpretation thereof, new enforcement of these laws or the enactment of new laws regarding the development of real property could lead to new or greater liabilities that could materially adversely affect our business, profitability or financial condition. Environmental and other regulations may have an adverse effect on our business. Our properties are subject to federal, state and local environmental regulations and restrictions that may impose significant limitations on our development ability. In most cases, approval to develop requires multiple permits which involve a long, uncertain and costly regulatory process. Most of our land holdings contain jurisdictional wetlands, some of which may be unsuitable for development or prohibited from development by law. Development approval most often requires mitigation for impacts to wetlands that require land to be conserved at a disproportionate ratio versus the actual wetlands impacted and approved for development. Much of our property is undeveloped land located in areas where development may have to avoid, minimize or mitigate for impacts to the natural habitats of various protected wildlife or plant species. Much of our property is in coastal areas that usually have a more restrictive permitting burden and must address issues such as coastal high hazard, hurricane evacuation, floodplains and dune protection. 15 Table of Contents Environmental laws and regulations frequently change, and such changes could have an adverse effect on our business. For example, the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) released in January 2010 proposed new freshwater quality criteria for Florida. There is a significant amount of uncertainty about how the proposed freshwater criteria would be implemented, including how they would relate to current state regulations. In addition, the EPA proposes to release new coastal water quality criteria for Florida in 2011. If adopted, and depending on the implementation details, the EPA’s proposed water quality criteria could lead to new restrictions and increased costs for our real estate development activities. In addition, our current or past ownership, operation and leasing of real property, and our current or past transportation and other operations, are subject to extensive and evolving federal, state and local environmental laws and other regulations. The provisions and enforcement of these environmental laws and regulations may become more stringent in the future. Violations of these laws and regulations can result in: • civil penalties; • remediation expenses; • natural resource damages; • personal injury damages; • potential injunctions; • cease and desist orders; and • criminal penalties. In addition, some of these environmental laws impose strict liability, which means that we may be held liable for any environmental damages on our property regardless of fault. Some of our past and present real property, particularly properties used in connection with our previous transportation and papermill operations, were involved in the storage, use or disposal of hazardous substances that have contaminated and may in the future contaminate the environment. We may bear liability for this contamination and for the costs of cleaning up a site at which we have disposed of or to which we have transported hazardous substances. The presence of hazardous substances on a property may also adversely affect our ability to sell or develop the property or to borrow funds using the property as collateral. Changes in laws or the interpretation thereof, new enforcement of laws, the identification of new facts or the failure of other parties to perform remediation at our current or former facilities could lead to new or greater liabilities that could materially adversely affect our business, profitability or financial condition. Increases in property insurance premiums and the decreasing availability of homeowner property insurance in Florida could reduce customer demand for homes and homesites in our developments. Homeowner property insurance companies doing business in Florida have reacted to recent hurricanes by significantly increasing premiums, requiring higher deductibles, reducing limits, restricting coverage, imposing exclusions, refusing to insure certain property owners, and in some instances, ceasing insurance operations in the state. It is uncertain what effect these actions will have on property insurance availability and rates in the state. This trend of decreasing availability of insurance and rising insurance rates could continue if there are severe hurricanes in the future. Furthermore, since the 2005 hurricane season, Florida’s state-owned property insurance company, Citizens Property Insurance Corp., has significantly increased the number of its outstanding policies. If there were to be a catastrophic hurricane or series of hurricanes to hit Florida, the exposure of the state government to property insurance claims could place extreme stress on state finances and may ultimately cause taxes in Florida to be significantly increased. The state may decide to limit the availability of state-sponsored property insurance in the future. 16 Table of Contents The high and increasing costs of property insurance premiums in Florida, as well as the decrease in private property insurers, could deter potential customers from purchasing a home or homesite in one of our developments or make Northwest Florida less attractive to new employers that can create high quality jobs needed to spur growth in the region, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Mortgage financing issues, including lack of supply of mortgage loans, tightened lending requirements and possible future increases in interest rates, could reduce demand for our products. Many purchasers of our real estate products obtain mortgage loans to finance a substantial portion of the purchase price, or they may need to obtain mortgage loans to finance the construction costs of homes to be built on homesites purchased from us. Also, our homebuilder customers depend on retail purchasers who rely on mortgage financing. Many mortgage lenders and investors in mortgage loans have recently experienced severe financial difficulties arising from losses incurred on sub-prime and other loans originated before the downturn in the real estate market. Despite unprecedented efforts by the Federal government to stabilize the nation’s banks, banking operations remain unsettled and the future of certain financial institutions remains uncertain. Because of these problems, the supply of mortgage products has been constrained, and the eligibility requirements for borrowers have been significantly tightened. These problems in the mortgage lending industry could adversely affect potential purchasers of our products, including our homebuilder customers, thus having a negative effect on demand for our products. Despite the current problems in the mortgage lending industry, interest rates for home mortgage loans have generally remained low. Mortgage interest rates could increase in the future, however, which could adversely affect the demand for residential real estate. In addition, any changes in the federal income tax laws which would remove or limit the deduction for interest on home mortgage loans could have an adverse impact on demand for our residential products. In addition to residential real estate, increased interest rates and restrictions in the availability of credit could also negatively impact sales of our commercial properties or other land we offer for sale. If interest rates increase and the ability or willingness of prospective buyers to finance real estate purchases is adversely affected, our sales, revenues, financial condition and results of operations may be negatively affected. We may not achieve the intended effects of our business strategy. In January 2012, we adopted a new real estate investment strategy, which is focused on reducing future capital outlays and employing new risk-adjusted investment return criteria for evaluating the Company’s properties and future investments in such properties. Pursuant to this new strategy, the Company intends to significantly reduce planned future capital expenditures for infrastructure, amenities and master planned community development and reposition certain assets to encourage increased absorption of such properties in their respective markets. If we are not successful in achieving our objectives, our revenues, costs and overall profitability could be negatively affected. Our stock price may decline or fluctuate significantly due to market factors outside of our control. The market price of our common stock has been volatile and may decline or fluctuate significantly in response to many factors, many of which are outside our control, including but not limited to: • actions by institutional shareholders or hedge funds; • speculation in the press or investment community; • the extent of short selling, hedging and other derivative transactions involving shares of our common stock; 17 Table of Contents • publication of research reports and opinions about us or the real estate industry in general; • rumors or dissemination of false or misleading information about us by other parties; • adverse market reaction to our strategic initiatives and their implementation; • additions or departures of key management personnel; • informal or formal inquiries or investigations by the SEC; and • general economic and market conditions. These factors may cause the market price of our common stock to decline regardless of our financial condition, results of operation, business or prospects and could result in substantial losses for our shareholders. If Fairholme Funds, Inc. controls us within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, we may be unable to engage in transactions with potential strategic partners, which could adversely affect our business. Fairholme Funds, Inc. (“Fairholme”) is an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the “Investment Company Act”) that currently beneficially owns approximately 24.98% of our outstanding common stock. Fairholme Capital Management, L.L.C., which controls Fairholme, is the investment advisor of accounts that in the aggregate own an additional 5% of our common stock. Bruce R. Berkowitz, the Managing Member of Fairholme Capital Management, L.L.C., and the President of Fairholme, is the Chairman of our Board of Directors upon filing of this Form 10-K. Under the Investment Company Act, “control” means the power to exercise a controlling influence over the management or policies of a company, unless such power is solely the result of an official position with such company. Any person who owns beneficially, either directly or through one or more controlled companies, more than 25% of the voting securities of a company shall be presumed to control such company. The SEC, however, has considered factors other than ownership of voting securities in determining control, including an official position with the company when such was obtained as a result of the influence over the company. Accordingly, even if Fairholme’s beneficial ownership in us remains below 25%, Fairholme may nevertheless be deemed to control us. The Investment Company Act generally prohibits a company controlled by an investment company from engaging in certain transactions with any affiliate of the investment company or affiliates of the affiliate, subject to limited exceptions. An affiliate of an investment company is defined in the Investment Company Act as, among other things, any company 5% or more of whose outstanding voting securities are directly or indirectly owned, controlled, or held with power to vote, by the investment company, a company directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common control with, the investment company or a company directly or indirectly owning, controlling, or holding with power to vote, 5% or more of the outstanding voting securities of the investment company. We believe that Fairholme is currently affiliated with a number of entities, including CIT Group, Inc., Imperial Metals Corporation, Leucadia National Corporation, MBIA, Inc., Orchard Supply Hardware Stores Corporation and Sears Holdings Corporation. Due to this affiliation, should Fairholme be deemed to control us, we may be prohibited from engaging in certain transactions with these entities and certain of their affiliates and any future affiliates of Fairholme, unless one of the limited exceptions applies. This could adversely affect our ability to enter into transactions freely and compete in the marketplace. In addition, significant penalties apply for companies found to be in violation of the Investment Company Act. If the RockTenn mill in Panama City were to permanently cease operations, the price we receive for our pine pulpwood may decline, and the cost of delivering logs to alternative customers could increase. In November 2010, we entered into a new supply agreement with Smurfit-Stone Container Corporation that requires us to deliver and sell a total of 3.9 million tons of pulpwood through 2017. Smurfit-Stone’s Panama City mill is the largest consumer of pine pulpwood logs within the immediate area in which most of our timberlands are 18 Table of Contents located. In July 2010, Smurfit-Stone emerged from approximately 18 months of bankruptcy protection, and during the first quarter of 2011, it announced its acquisition by RockTenn. Under the terms of the supply agreement, RockTenn will be liable for monetary damages as a result of the closure of the mill due to economic reasons for a period of one year. Nevertheless, if the RockTenn mill in Panama City were to permanently cease operations, the price for our pulpwood may decline, and the cost of delivering logs to alternative customers could increase. Changes in our income tax estimates could affect our profitability. In preparing our consolidated financial statements, significant management judgment is required to estimate our income taxes. Our estimates are based on our interpretation of federal and state tax laws. We estimate our actual current tax due and assess temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes. The temporary differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included in our consolidated balance sheets. Adjustments may be required by a change in assessment of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes due to audit adjustments by federal and state tax authorities, and changes in tax laws and rates. To the extent adjustments are required in any given period; we include the adjustments in the tax provision in our financial statements. These adjustments could materially impact our financial position, cash flow and results of operations. Our insurance coverage on our properties may be inadequate to cover any losses we may incur. We maintain comprehensive insurance on our property, including property, liability, fire, flood and extended coverage. However, there are certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as hurricanes and floods or acts of war or terrorism that may be uninsurable or not economically insurable. We use our discretion when determining amounts, coverage limits and deductibles for insurance. These terms are determined based on retaining an acceptable level of risk at a reasonable cost. This may result in insurance coverage that in the event of a substantial loss would not be sufficient to pay the full current market value or current replacement cost of our lost investment. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors also may make it unfeasible to use insurance proceeds to replace a facility after it has been damaged or destroyed. Under such circumstances, the insurance proceeds we receive may not be adequate to restore our economic position in a property. If an insured loss occurred, we could lose both our investment in and anticipated profits and cash flow from a property, and we would continue to be obligated on any mortgage indebtedness or other obligations related to the property. We are also subject to the risk that such providers may be unwilling or unable to pay our claims when made. Increases in real estate property taxes could reduce customer demand for homes and homesites in our developments. Florida experienced significant increases in property values during the record-setting real estate activity in the first half of this decade. As a result, many local governments have been, and may continue aggressively re-assessing the value of homes and real estate for property tax purposes. These larger assessments increase the total real estate property taxes due from property owners annually. Because of decreased revenues from other sources because of the recession, many local governments have also increased their property tax rates. The current high costs of real estate property taxes in Florida, and future increases in property taxes, could deter potential customers from purchasing a lot or home in one of our developments, or make Northwest Florida less attractive to new employers that can create high-quality jobs needed to spur growth in the region, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 