ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS SLOWER THAN ANTICIPATED GROWTH IN THE BANK'S NEW BANKING CENTERS COULD RESULT IN REDUCED NET INCOME The Company has placed a strategic emphasis on expanding the banking center network of the Bank. The Company opened a full service banking center in Brownsburg, Hendricks County, Indiana in January of 2006, opened a full service banking center in Plainfield, Hendricks County, Indiana in December of 2007, and opened a full service banking center in Avon, Hendricks County, Indiana in January of 2008. Additionally, the Company is currently constructing a full service banking center in Noblesville, Hamilton County, Indiana that is expected to open in the late summer of 2008. Executing this strategy carries risks of slower than anticipated growth in the new banking centers. New banking centers require a significant investment of both financial and personnel resources. Lower than expected loan and deposit growth in the new banking centers could result in lower than expected revenues and net income generated by those investments. Opening new banking centers could result in more additional expenses than anticipated and divert resources from current core operations. INABILITY TO HIRE OR RETAIN CERTAIN KEY PROFESSIONALS, MANAGEMENT AND STAFF COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR REVENUES AND NET INCOME The Company relies on key personnel to manage and operate its business, including major revenue generating functions such as the loan and deposit portfolios. The loss of key staff may adversely affect the Company's ability to maintain and manage these portfolios effectively, which could negatively affect the Company's revenues. In addition, loss of key personnel could result in increased recruiting and hiring expenses, which could cause a decrease in the Company's net income. THE COMPANY IS SUBJECT TO INTEREST RATE RISK The Company's earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon its net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Company's control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest the Company receives on loans and securities and the amount of interest it pays on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect the Company's ability to originate loans and obtain deposits and the fair value of the Company's financial assets and liabilities. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, the Company's net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. THE COMPANY'S ALLOWANCE FOR POSSIBLE LOAN LOSSES MAY BE INSUFFICIENT The Company maintains an allowance for possible loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for possible loan losses charged to expense that represents management's best estimate of probable losses that have been incurred within the existing portfolio of loans. The allowance, in the judgment of management, is necessary to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. The level of the allowance reflects management's continuing evaluation of industry concentrations; specific credit risks; loan loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic, political and regulatory conditions and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for possible loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires management to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. In addition, bank regulatory agencies 28 periodically review the Company's allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for possible loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. If charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for possible loan losses, the Company will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for possible loan losses. Any increases in the allowance for possible loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and, possibly, capital, and may have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. THE COMPANY IS SUBJECT TO ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITY RISK ASSOCIATED WITH LENDING ACTIVITIES A significant portion of the Company's loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, the Company may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, the Company may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require the Company to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property's value or limit the Company's ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase the Company's exposure to environmental liability. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. THE COMPANY IS SUBJECT TO EXTENSIVE GOVERNMENT REGULATION AND SUPERVISION The Company, primarily through the Bank, is subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors' funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. These regulations affect the Company's lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect the Company in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject the Company to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products the Company may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. THE COMPANY'S CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES MAY FAIL OR BE CIRCUMVENTED Management regularly reviews and updates the Company's internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the Company's controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. THE COMPANY'S INFORMATION SYSTEMS MAY EXPERIENCE AN INTERRUPTION OR BREACH IN SECURITY The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the Company's customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or 29 security breach of its information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of the Company's information systems could damage the Company's reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject the Company to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose the Company to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. CHANGES IN TECHNOLOGY COULD BE COSTLY The banking industry is undergoing technological innovation. In order to maintain its competitive position, the Company must react to these innovations and evaluate the technologies to enable it to compete on a cost-effective basis. The cost of such technology, including personnel, may be high in both absolute and relative terms. There can be no assurance, given the fast pace of change and innovation, that the Company's technology will meet or continue to meet its needs. THE TRADING VOLUME IN THE COMPANY'S COMMON STOCK IS LESS THAN THAT OF OTHER LARGER FINANCIAL SERVICES COMPANIES Although the Company's common stock is listed for trading on NASDAQ Global Market, the trading volume in its common stock is less than that of other larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of the Company's common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which the Company has no control. Given the lower trading volume of the Company's common stock, significant sales of the Company's common stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause the Company's stock price to fall. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO PAY DIVIDENDS IN THE FUTURE IN ACCORDANCE WITH PAST PRACTICES The Company may not be able to pay dividends in accordance with past practice. The Company traditionally pays a quarterly dividend to stockholder. The payment of dividends is subject to legal and regulatory restrictions and, therefore, any payment of dividends in the future will depend in large part on the Company's earnings, capital requirements, financial conditions and other factors considered relevant by the Company's board of directors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 