Item 1A. Risk Factors. · The industries in which we operate depend upon general economic conditions and are highly cyclical. Our financial performance depends, in large part, on conditions in the cyclical markets that we serve, such as the automotive and light-duty truck industries, and on the U.S. and global economies generally. Our sales to OEMs and Tier I and Tier II suppliers in the automotive and light-and heavy-duty truck 13 industries accounted for virtually all of our net sales in 2005. Tier II suppliers are direct suppliers to Tier I suppliers of integrated modules, such as engine and suspension modules and brake corner modules. Demand for new vehicles fluctuates in response to overall economic conditions and is particularly sensitive to changes in interest rate levels, consumer confidence and fuel costs. In our largest market, the North American automotive market, reported results from our customers in 2005 reflected higher selling prices than in 2004. However, raw material costs have also been higher resulting in higher sales but lower margins in 2005. There can be no assurance that we will continue to offset such margin pressures in the future. To the extent our production volumes have been positively impacted by OEM new vehicle sales incentives, such at 0% financing and cash rebates, these sales incentives may not be sustained or may cease to favorably impact our sales. For example, 2005 sales for one of our three largest customers declined approximately 6% from prior year results. Throughout the summer of 2005, this customer sold new vehicles at below dealer cost, creating increased demand for new vehicle sales. However, these sale incentives have been discontinued, resulting in a decline in new vehicle sales. Any sustained weakening in our sales volume with any of our three largest customers could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, the recent decline in consumer confidence throughout the U.S. and much of the world continues to create uncertainty in our markets. Any sustained weakness in demand or continued downturn or uncertainty in the economy generally would have a material adverse effect on us. Our sales are also impacted by retail inventory levels and our customers’ production schedules. In the current environment, we cannot predict future automotive production rates and inventory levels and the sustainability of any general economic recovery. In addition, we have experienced historical sales declines during OEMs’ scheduled shutdowns, which usually occur during the third calendar quarter. Continued uncertainty and other unexpected fluctuations may have a material adverse effect upon us. · Our base of customers is concentrated and the loss of business from a major customer, the discontinuance of particular vehicle models or a change in auto consumer preferences or regulations could materially adversely affect us. Because of the relative importance of our largest customers to us and the high degree of concentration of OEMs in the North American automotive industry, our business is exposed to a high degree of risk related to customer concentration. While direct sales to our three largest OEM customers accounted for a large portion of our net sales from continuing operations in 2005, our customers include Tier I and Tier II suppliers, such as Delphi, Dana and Visteon, that serve the large OEMs. Accordingly, while DaimlerChrysler, Ford and General Motors directly accounted for approximately 25.8%, 12.1% and 6.5%, respectively, of our net sales from continuing operations in 2005, we have a material indirect exposure to these and other OEMs due to our significant Tier I and Tier II supplier base. Several of our OEM customers have recently announced plans to further consolidate their number of suppliers. A loss of significant business from, or adverse performance by, any of these OEM customers or our significant Tier I and Tier II suppliers serving these OEM customers would be harmful to us and make it more difficult for us to meet our debt obligations. Delphi and Dana recently filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. bankruptcy code. Should other of our customers take similar action, we could be adversely affected. Further deterioration of the market share held by the three largest domestic automakers could also impact our revenues. Production cuts at these OEMs could also adversely impact our sales to Tier I and Tier II suppliers. The contracts we have entered into with most of our customers provide for supplying the customers’ annual requirements against a blanket purchase order for certain vehicle models, rather than for manufacturing a specific quantity of products. Most of these purchase orders are terminable at will by the customers. Therefore, the loss of a contract or a significant decrease in demand for certain key models or group of related models sold by any of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on us. 14 In addition, our sales are influenced by customer preferences and regulatory changes. A significant portion of our sales have been derived from products used in sports utility vehicles, or SUVs, and light trucks, which have been favorable due to their high metal content. Until recently, these vehicles had experienced positive sales trends for several years. There can be no assurance that sales of these vehicles will not continue to decline. In addition, government regulations, including those related to fuel economy, could impact vehicle content and volume and, accordingly, have a material adverse impact on us. · We may not be able to manage our business as we might otherwise because of our high degree of leverage. We have debt that is substantial in relation to our stockholders’ equity and we expect to incur further debt in the future to finance acquisitions. As of January 1, 2006, we had approximately $862 million of outstanding debt. The degree to which we are leveraged will have important consequences, including the following: · our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, business development efforts or general corporate purposes may be impaired; · a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations will be dedicated to the payment of interest and principal on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available to us for other purposes, including our obligations to pay rent in respect of our significant operating leases; · our operations are restricted by our debt instruments, which contain material financial and operating covenants, and those restrictions will limit, among other things, our ability to borrow money in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, rent expense or other purposes; · indebtedness under our credit facility and the financing cost associated with our accounts receivable securitization facility are at variable rates of interest, which makes us vulnerable to increases in interest rates; · our leverage may place us at a competitive disadvantage as compared with our less leveraged competitors; · our substantial degree of leverage will make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in general economic conditions or in any of our businesses; and · our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate may be limited. Our ability to service our debt and other obligations will depend on our future operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” · Restrictions in our credit facility and other debt limit our ability to take certain actions. Our credit facility, the indentures governing our 11% senior subordinated notes due 2012, our 10% senior notes due 2013 and our 10% senior subordinated notes due 2014 contain covenants that restrict our ability to: · pay dividends or redeem or repurchase capital stock; · incur additional indebtedness and grant liens; 15 · make acquisitions and joint venture investments; · sell assets; and · make capital expenditures. Our credit facility also requires us to comply with financial covenants relating to, among other things, interest coverage and leverage. While we have unutilized capacity under our revolving credit facility and accounts receivable securitization facility as of January 1, 2006, our ability to utilize this liquidity depends upon compliance with financial covenants. Our financial covenants have recently been adjusted in connection with a bank amendment entered into in February 2006. In addition, our accounts receivable securitization facility contains certain covenants similar to those in our credit facility and includes requirements regarding the purchase and sale of receivables. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be able to satisfy any of these covenants in the future or that we will be able to pursue our new business strategies within the constraints of these or our revised covenants. If we cannot comply with the covenants in our debt instruments, we will be in default and unable to access required liquidity from our revolving credit and accounts receivable securitization facilities and unable to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. In addition, our accounts receivable securitization facility contains concentration limits with respect to the percentage of receivables we can sell from a particular customer. If one or more of our customers were to merge with or be acquired by another of our customers, the amount of receivables of the surviving customer that we could sell may not be increased, resulting in a net lowering of the total amount of the receivables we could sell. If the total amount of receivables we could sell were decreased, we could be materially adversely affected. Further, the concentration limits are based on the credit ratings of such particular customer. While we will implement credit hedging strategies to offset this risk, if one or more of our customers were to become insolvent or have its credit ratings downgraded and consequently the amount of receivables of such customer that we could sell were decreased, our business could be materially adversely affected. For example, on May 5, 2005, Standard & Poor’s lowered its credit rating of General Motors Corporation and Ford Motor Company, two of our largest customers. Due to our new accounts receivable securitization facility entered into on April 29, 2005, these rating downgrades did not have a material impact on our borrowing capacity. On November 1, 2005, Moody’s lowered its credit rating of General Motors, one of our largest customers, resulting in a decrease of our borrowing capacity under our accounts receivable securitization facility by approximately $3 million. In addition, Delphi and Dana, two of our customers, became insolvent in October 2005 and March 2006, respectively. Any further insolvencies or rating downgrades of our largest customers may limit our borrowing capacity on our accounts receivable securitization facility, which could materially adversely affect our business. Our ability to comply with our covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. The breach of our covenants could result in an event of default under our credit facility, the indenture governing the 11% senior subordinated notes due 2012, the indenture governing the senior notes due 2013 or other indebtedness, which could cause an event of default under our accounts receivable securitization facility and all or a portion of our lease financing. Such breach would permit the lenders to declare all amounts borrowed thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued interest, and the commitments of the lenders to make further extensions of credit under our credit facility could be terminated. In addition, such breach may cause a termination of our accounts receivable securitization facility and of our various sale-leaseback facilities. If we were unable to secure a waiver from our lenders or repay our credit facility indebtedness, our secured lenders could proceed against their collateral and our lessors could prevent us from using our valuable facilities and equipment that are under lease. We do not presently expect that alternative sources of financing will be available to us under these circumstances or available on attractive terms. We may incur other indebtedness in the future that may contain financial or other covenants more restrictive than those 16 applicable to the credit facility, the indentures governing our 11% senior subordinated notes due 2012, the indenture governing our 10% senior notes due 2013 and the 10% senior subordinated notes due 2014. · If we are unable to meet future capital requirements, our business may be adversely affected. We operate in a capital intensive industry. We have made substantial capital investments from 2001 through 2005 to, among other things, maintain and upgrade our facilities and enhance our production processes. This level of capital expenditures was needed to: · increase production capacity; · develop new programs and technology; · improve productivity; · satisfy customer requirements; and · upgrade selected facilities to meet competitive requirements. We have capital expenditures of approximately $112 million from continuing operations in 2005 and expect to make approximately $70 million in 2006. In addition, as we expand our book of business, we may have to incur other significant expenditures to prepare for and manufacture these products. We believe that we will be able to fund these expenditures through cash flow from operations, borrowing under our credit facility and sales of receivables under our receivables facility or other satisfactory arrangements. Our credit facility contains limitations which could affect our ability to fund our capital expenditures and other needs. We cannot assure you that we will have adequate funds to make all capital expenditures, when required, or that the amount of future capital expenditures will not be materially in excess of our anticipated expenditures. If we are unable to make necessary capital expenditures, our business will be adversely affected. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” · Increases in our raw material or energy costs or difficulties within our supplier base could negatively affect our financial health. Generally, our raw materials requirements are obtainable from various sources and in the desired quantities. While we currently maintain alternative sources for raw materials, our businesses are subject to the risk of price fluctuations and periodic delays in the delivery of certain raw materials and component parts. In particular, we have been adversely impacted by steel costs. Beginning in 2004, there have been significant increases in the global prices of steel, which have had and may continue to have an impact on our business. While the rise in material costs, especially steel, continues to impact our financial results, we have been able to offset most of this increase through negotiated or contractual price recovery from our customers, cost reductions, a decrease in our annual productivity, price reductions given to our customers, scrap sales and steel resourcing efforts. Our ability to fully execute this recovery on a going forward basis is not guaranteed. Although certain raw material costs such as steel have started to decrease in 2005, there is no guarantee that these decreases will continue. Any continued fluctuation in the price of availability of steel could have a material adverse impact on our business. 17 In addition, certain of our suppliers have suffered financial distress, which may materially adversely impact us as well in terms of the potential for interrupted supply, unfavorable payment terms and/or high prices. Specifically, four of our largest suppliers declared bankruptcy since 2004, and we have been forced to renegotiate the terms of certain of our contracts with these suppliers. The additional effects on us from these and other bankruptcies is unknown, but they could result in us paying higher prices, having less favorable payment terms and/or having interrupted supply of parts. See “Business—Materials and Supply Arrangements.” In addition, a failure by our suppliers to continue to supply us with certain raw materials or component parts on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, would have a material adverse effect on us. Our energy costs are a substantial element of our cost structure. To the extent there are energy supply disruptions or material fluctuations in energy costs, our margins could be materially adversely impacted. · Continuing trends among our customers will increase competitive pressures in our business. The markets for our products are highly competitive. Our competitors include driveline component manufacturing facilities of existing OEMs, as well as independent domestic and international suppliers. Certain competitors of our businesses are large companies that have greater financial resources than us. At times, we may be in a position of competing with some of our own customers, such as other Tier I suppliers, which could have adverse consequences. We believe that the principal competitive factors for all of our businesses are product quality and conformity to customer specifications, design and engineering capabilities, product development, timeliness of delivery and price. Virtually all of our customers have policies of seeking price reductions each year. As a result, we have been forced to reduce prices in the initial bidding process, during the terms of contractual arrangements and upon contract renewals. Moreover, certain of our customers have required that we relocate production to countries with lower production costs in order to provide them with additional price reductions. The pressure to provide price reductions has been substantial and is likely to continue. In addition, our competitors may develop products that are superior to our products or may adapt more quickly than us to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. Continuing trends by our customers in many of our markets to limit their number of outside vendors have resulted in increased competition as many manufacturers and distributors have reduced prices to compete more effectively. In addition, financial and operating difficulties experienced by our major customers may result in further pricing pressure. We expect competitive pressures in our markets to remain strong. Such pressures arise from existing competitors, other companies that may enter our existing or future markets and, in certain cases, our customers, which may decide to internalize production of certain items sold by us. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully with our existing competitors or with new competitors. Failure to compete successfully could have a material adverse effect on us. · We rely upon a number of arrangements for our liquidity, which, if limited, could materially and adversely affect our ability to meet our commercial and financial obligations and to grow our business. We have substantial on- and off-balance sheet obligations and significant commercial and financial obligations as well as capital requirements to meet our new business commitments. To meet these obligations and commitments we rely upon a variety of sources of liquidity, particularly our revolving credit facility and our accounts receivable facility. Our liquidity may be adversely affected depending on the timing of such obligations and commitments. The availability of funds under our revolving credit facility and our accounts receivable facility depends upon a number of factors, including covenant compliance, customer concentration, the total amount of receivables available for sale and the nature of our receivables. Our receivables available for sale during the year are impacted by the volume and timing of vehicle production, which includes a shutdown in our North American customer for approximately two weeks in July and one week in December and reduced production in July and August for certain European customers. An adverse change in our liquidity may not only impair our ability to meet our commercial commitments and objectives, but may make it difficult for us to meet our obligations in respect of debt and lease obligations. 18 · We may selectively pursue strategic opportunities like acquisitions, joint ventures and divestitures but we may not be able to successfully do so or realize the intended benefits of such transactions. We continually evaluate potential acquisitions and joint ventures. There can be no assurance that suitable acquisition candidates may be identified and acquired in the future, that the financing or necessary consents for any such acquisitions will be available on satisfactory terms or that we will be able to accomplish our strategic objectives in making any such acquisition. Acquisitions are often undertaken to improve the operating results of either or both of the acquirer and the acquired company, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in this regard or that the expenses that we may incur to implement cost savings plans will not be excessive relative to the anticipated benefits. We will encounter various risks if we acquire other companies, including the possible inability to integrate successfully an acquired business into our operations and unanticipated problems or liabilities, whether or not known at the time of acquisition, some or all of which could materially and adversely affect us. We could incur additional indebtedness in connection with our acquisition strategy and increase our leverage. We may acquire companies and operations in geographic markets in which we do not currently operate. Acquisitions outside of North America will present unique structuring, integration, legal operating and cultural challenges and difficulties and will increase our exposure to risks generally attendant to international operations. In addition, we may from time to time dispose of assets or businesses that no longer match with our strategy for financial reasons. · Our products are subject to changing technology, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to alternative products introduced by competitors. We believe that our customers rigorously evaluate their suppliers on the basis of product quality, price competitiveness, technical expertise and development capability, new product innovation, reliability and timeliness of delivery, product design capability, manufacturing expertise, operational flexibility, customer service and overall management. Our success will depend on our ability to continue to meet our customers’ changing specifications with respect to these criteria. We may, therefore, require significant ongoing and recurring additional capital expenditures and investment in research and development, manufacturing and other areas to remain competitive. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve the technological advances or introduce new products that may be necessary to remain competitive within our business. In addition, any decreasing demand by our customers in favor of plastics could have a material adverse effect. Further, we cannot assure you that any technology development by us can be adequately protected such that we can maintain a sustainable competitive advantage. · We depend on the services of key individuals and relationships, the loss of which would materially harm us. Our success will depend, in part, on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees. In addition, our future success will depend on, among other factors, our ability to attract and retain other qualified personnel. The loss of the services of any of our key employees or the failure to attract or retain employees could have a material adverse effect on us. · We may be subject to work stoppages at our facilities or those of our principal customers, which could seriously impact the profitability of our business. As of January 1, 2006, approximately 50% of our continuing operations work force was unionized. We do not have national agreements in place with any union, and our facilities are represented by a variety of different union organizations. If our unionized workers were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown in the future, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, if a greater percentage of our work force becomes unionized, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. We currently have two facilities 19 with union contracts expiring within the next twelve months. The remaining union facilities have contracts which expire in 2007 and 2008. See “Business—Employees and Labor Relations.” Many of our direct or indirect customers have unionized work forces. Strikes, work stoppages or slowdowns experienced by automotive OEMs or their suppliers could result in slowdowns or closures of assembly plants where our products are included in assembled vehicles. UAW contracts with our three largest customers were renegotiated in 2003 for a term of four years to expire in 2007. In addition, organizations responsible for shipping our customers’ products may be impacted by occasional strikes staged by the Teamsters Union. Any interruption in the delivery of our customers’ products would reduce demand for our products and could have a material adverse effect on us. · Our pension plans are currently underfunded and we may have to make cash payments to the plans, reducing the cash available for liquidity. We sponsor defined benefit pension plans covering certain active and retired employees in the United States, Canada and Europe that are underfunded and will require future cash payments. Additionally, if the performance of the assets in our pension plans does not meet our expectations, or if other actuarial assumptions are modified, our required contributions may be higher than we expect. If our cash flow from operations is insufficient to fund our pension liability, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, seek additional capital or seek to restructure or refinance our indebtedness. On January 2, 2005, our projected benefit obligation, or PBO, exceeded the fair value of plan assets by $121.2 million. During 2005, we made contributions, including employee contributions and benefit payments made directly by Metaldyne, of $22.3 million to the defined benefit plans. The underfunded status at January 1, 2006 was $120.8 million. Our pension expense was $6.0 million and $4.2 million for 2005 and 2004, respectively. For 2006 we expect pension expense to be $8.6 million. See Note 26, Employee Benefit Plans, to the audited consolidated financial statements. · Our strategy may not succeed if anticipated outsourcing fails to occur due to union considerations. Because of economic benefits inherent in outsourcing to suppliers and the costs associated with reversing a decision to purchase products from an outside supplier, automotive OEMs’ commitment to purchasing modules from outside suppliers, particularly on a “just-in-time” basis, are expected to increase. However, under the contracts currently in effect in the United States and Canada between each of DaimlerChrysler, Ford and General Motors with the UAW and the Canadian Auto Workers, or CAW, in order for any of such automotive OEMs to obtain components from external sources that it currently produces, it must first notify the UAW or the CAW of such intention. If the UAW or the CAW objects to the proposed outsourcing, some agreement will have to be reached between the UAW or the CAW and the automotive OEM. Factors that will normally be taken into account by the UAW, the CAW and the automotive OEM include: · whether the proposed new supplier is technologically more advanced than the automotive OEM; · whether the new supplier is unionized; · whether cost benefits exist; and · whether the automotive OEM will be able to reassign union members whose jobs are being displaced to other jobs within the same factories. In the event our predictions concerning such industry trends are not accurate or automotive OEMs are unable to outsource to us, it may have a material adverse effect on us. 20 · A growing portion of our revenue may be derived from international sources, which exposes us to certain risks. Approximately 27% of our sales in 2005 were derived from sales from continuing operations by our subsidiaries located outside of the United States. As part of our business strategy, we intend to expand our international operations through internal growth and acquisitions. For example, we recently announced plans to expand our manufacturing locations in both China and South Korea. In addition, the disposition of our non-core North American Forging business will effectively increase the percentage of sales derived from our subsidiaries located outside of the United States. Significant market share has shifted to foreign OEMs in the SUV and light truck platforms where we derive a significant portion of our sales. Sales outside of the United States, particularly sales to emerging markets, are subject to other various risks which are not present in sales within U.S. markets, including governmental embargoes or foreign trade restrictions such as antidumping duties, changes in U.S. and foreign governmental regulations, the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign local systems, foreign customers may have longer payment cycles than customers in the U.S. more expansive legal rights of foreign unions, tariffs and other trade barriers, taxes, the potential for nationalization of enterprises, foreign exchange risk and other political, economic and social instability. In addition, there are tax inefficiencies in repatriating cash flow from non-U.S. subsidiaries. To the extent such repatriation is necessary for us to meet our debt service or other obligations, this will adversely affect us. · We may incur material losses and costs as a result of product liability and warranty claims that may be brought against us. We may incur material losses and costs as a result of product liability and warranty claims that may be brought against us in the event that the use of our current and formerly manufactured or sold products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury and /or property damage or fails to meet our customer specifications. We may experience material product liability losses in the future or may incur significant costs to defend such claims. Our product liability insurance coverage may not be adequate for any liabilities that may ultimately be incurred or may not continue to be available on terms acceptable to us. In addition, if any of our products are or are alleged to be defective we may be required to participate in a government-required or manufacturer-instituted recall involving such products. In the automotive industry, each vehicle manufacturer has its own policy regarding product recalls and other product liability actions relating to its suppliers. However, as suppliers become more integrally involved in the vehicle design process and assume more of the vehicle assembly functions, vehicle manufacturers are increasingly looking to their suppliers for contribution when faced with product liability claims. A successful claim brought against us in excess of our available insurance coverage or a requirement to participate in a product recall may have a materially adverse effect on our business. In the ordinary course of our business, contractual disputes over warranties can also arise. In the past five years or more, we have not been required to make any material payments in respect of warranty claims. In addition, claims may be asserted against us with respect to former businesses disposed of by us, whether or not we are legally responsible or entitled to contractual indemnification. For example, in June 2002, we divested our controlling interest in TriMas. Certain of TriMas’ subsidiaries have historical contingent and other liabilities, including liabilities associated with their former manufacture of asbestos containing gaskets, for which we are indemnified. In the event of financial difficulty at one of our former businesses or otherwise, claims may be made against us and, to the extent arising from a TriMas business, TriMas may not be in a position to meet its indemnification obligations. 21 · Our business may be materially and adversely affected by compliance obligations and liabilities under environmental laws and regulations. We are subject to numerous and frequently changing federal, state, local and foreign environmental, and health and safety, laws and regulations that: · affect ongoing operations and may increase capital costs and operating expenses in order to maintain compliance with such requirements, and · impose liability relating to contamination at our facilities, and at other locations such as former facilities, facilities where we have sent wastes for treatment or disposal, and other properties to which we (or a company or business for which we are responsible) are linked. Such liability may include, for example, investigation and clean-up of the contamination, personal injury and property damage caused by the contamination, and damages to natural resources. Some of these liabilities may be imposed without regard to fault, and may also be joint and several (which can result in a liable party being held responsible for the entire obligation, even where other parties are also liable). We are legally or contractually responsible or alleged to be responsible for the investigation and remediation of contamination at various sites, and for personal injury or property damages, if any, associated with such contamination. Our subsidiaries have been named as potentially responsible parties under the Federal Superfund law or similar state laws in several sites requiring cleanup related to disposal of wastes generated by them. These laws generally impose liability for costs to investigate and remediate contamination without regard to fault and under certain circumstances liability may be joint and several resulting in one responsible party being held responsible for the entire obligation. Liability may also include damages to natural resources. Our businesses have incurred and likely will continue to incur expenses to investigate and clean up existing and former company-owned or leased property. Additional sites may be identified at which we are a potentially responsible party under the federal Superfund law or similar state laws. We cannot assure you that these or other liabilities will not have a material adverse effect upon us. See “Business—Environmental Matters.” · We are controlled by Heartland, whose interests in our business may be different than ours. Heartland and its affiliates are able to control our affairs in all cases, except for certain actions specified in a shareholders agreement among Heartland, Credit Suisse First Boston Equity Partners, L.P. together with its affiliated funds, or CSFB Private Equity, Masco Corporation, Richard Manoogian and their various affiliates and certain other investors. Under the shareholders agreement, holders of approximately 96% of our outstanding shares of common stock have agreed to vote their shares for directors representing a majority of our board that have been designated by Heartland. You should consider that the interests of Heartland, as well as our other owners, will likely differ from yours in material respects. See Note 30, Related Party Transactions, to the audited consolidated financial statements. · Provisions of the shareholders agreement impose significant operating and financial restriction on our business. Under the shareholders agreement referred to above, specified actions require the approval of representatives of CSFB Private Equity, until such time as we consummate a public common stock offering for at least $100 million in gross proceeds to us. Such actions include certain acquisitions by us, the selection of a chief executive officer, certain debt restructurings and any liquidation or dissolution of us. You should consider that we and our stockholders may be unable to agree with CSFB Private Equity on the implementation of such fundamental transactions and other matters. This sort of disagreement may materially and adversely affect us. In addition, directors designated by Heartland could block actions even if other directors deem them advisable. 22 We undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable. 