ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS DIFFICULT CONDITIONS IN THE CAPITAL MARKETS AND THE ECONOMY GENERALLY MAY MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the capital markets and the economy generally. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption for more than twelve months at unprecedented levels. In many cases, these markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices of, and credit availability to, certain companies without regard to those companies' underlying financial strength. Recently, concerns over inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market and a declining U.S. real estate market have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and the capital and credit markets going forward. These factors, combined with volatile oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have precipitated an economic slowdown and national recession. In addition, the fixed-income markets are experiencing a period of extreme volatility which has negatively impacted market liquidity conditions. Initially, the concerns on the part of market participants were focused on the subprime segment of the mortgage-backed securities market. However, these concerns have since expanded to include a broad range of mortgage-and asset-backed and other fixed income securities, including those rated investment grade, the U.S. and international credit and interbank money markets generally, and a wide range of financial institutions and markets, asset classes and sectors. Factors such as consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of our business. In an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending, the demand for our financial products could be adversely affected. Adverse changes in the economy could affect earnings negatively and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The current mortgage crisis and economic slowdown has also raised the possibility of future legislative and regulatory actions in addition to the recent enactment of EESA and ARRA that could further impact our business. We cannot predict whether or when such actions may occur, or what impact, if any, such actions could have on our business, results of operations and financial condition. THERE CAN BE NO ASSURANCE THAT ACTIONS OF THE U.S. GOVERNMENT, FEDERAL RESERVE AND OTHER GOVERNMENTAL AND REGULATORY BODIES FOR THE PURPOSE OF STABILIZING THE FINANCIAL MARKETS WILL ACHIEVE THE INTENDED EFFECT. In response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions, on October 3, 2008 EESA was signed into law. Pursuant to EESA, the Treasury was granted authority to utilize up to $700 billion to purchase distressed assets from financial institutions or infuse capital into financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets. The Treasury announced the Capital Purchase Program under EESA pursuant to which it has purchased and will continue to purchase senior preferred stock in participating financial institutions such as the Company. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that EESA, including the Capital Purchase Program and the Treasury's Troubled Asset Relief Program, will have on the financial markets or on us. The failure of these programs to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. 31 The federal government, Federal Reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken or are considering taking other actions to address the financial crisis. There can be no assurance as to what impact such actions will have on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility currently being experienced. Such continued volatility could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, or the trading price of our common stock. WE MAY BE REQUIRED TO PAY SIGNIFICANTLY HIGHER FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION PREMIUMS IN THE FUTURE. Recent insured institution failures, as well as deterioration in banking and economic conditions, have significantly increased FDIC loss provisions, resulting in a decline in the designated reserve ratio to historical lows. The FDIC expects a higher rate of insured institution failures in the next few years compared to recent years; thus, the reserve ratio may continue to decline. In addition, EESA temporarily increased the limit on FDIC coverage to $250,000 through December 31, 2013. On May 22, 2009, the Board of Directors of the FDIC voted to levy a special assessment on insured institutions as part of the agency's efforts to rebuild the DIF and help maintain public confidence in the banking system. The final rule established a special assessment of five basis points on each FDIC-insured depository institution's assets, minus its Tier 1 capital, as of June 30, 2009. Additionally, the FDIC adopted a final rule requiring insured depository institutions to prepay their estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. The prepaid assessments for these periods were collected on December 30, 2009, along with the regular quarterly risk-based deposit insurance assessment for the third quarter of 2009. This prepayment does not preclude the FDIC from changing assessment rates or from further revising the risk-based assessment system during the prepayment period or thereafter. As a result, we may also be required to pay significantly higher FDIC insurance assessments premiums in the future. These higher FDIC assessment rates and future special assessments could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. RECENT NEGATIVE DEVELOPMENTS IN THE FINANCIAL INDUSTRY AND THE CREDIT MARKETS MAY SUBJECT US TO ADDITIONAL REGULATION. As a result of the recent global financial crisis, the potential exists for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards to be promulgated, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement orders. Negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets, and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments, may negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and may adversely impact our financial performance. A SIGNIFICANT NUMBER OF THE LOANS IN OUR PORTFOLIO ARE SECURED BY REAL ESTATE, AND A CONTINUED DOWNTURN IN THE ECONOMY WITHIN THE MARKETS WE SERVE COULD SIGNIFICANTLY HURT OUR BUSINESS AND PROSPECTS FOR GROWTH. As of December 31, 2009, real estate loans comprised $494,521,000 or approximately 84.7 percent of our total loan portfolio (excluding loans held for sale) and approximately 61.6 percent of our total assets. Of that amount, $433,661,000 consisted of commercial and residential real estate loans and $60,860,000 consisted of construction real estate loans. The market value of real estate securing our real estate loans can fluctuate significantly in a short period of time as a result of market conditions. Adverse developments affecting real estate values in our primary market areas could increase the credit risk associated with our loan portfolio. 32 In addition, the repayment of commercial real estate loans generally is dependent, in large part, on sufficient income from the properties securing the loans to cover operating expenses and debt service. Economic events or governmental regulations outside of our control or that of the borrower could negatively impact the future cash flow and market values of the affected properties. FURTHER DETERIORATION OF OUR NONPERFORMING LOANS OR AN INCREASE IN THE NUMBER OF NON-PERFORMING LOANS MAY HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR OPERATIONS. Weakening economic conditions in the residential and commercial real estate sectors have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our loan portfolio. The ratio of nonperforming assets and 90 day past due loans to total assets increased to 3.2 percent as of December 31, 2009, from 2.3 percent as of December 31, 2008. It is likely that this ratio will increase over the next several quarters as a result of the general economic environment as well as the progression of certain delinquent loans to loans that are 90 days or more past due. If loans that currently are non-performing further deteriorate or loans that are currently performing become nonperforming, we may need to increase our allowance for loan losses or charge-off those loans. Any increase or charge-off would have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. THE GEOGRAPHIC CONCENTRATION OF OUR MARKETS MAKES OUR BUSINESS HIGHLY SUSCEPTIBLE TO LOCAL ECONOMIC CONDITIONS. Unlike larger banking organizations that are more geographically diversified, our operations are currently concentrated in the Bloomington, Indiana and Central Indiana markets. As a result of this geographic concentration, our financial results depend largely upon economic conditions in these market areas. Deterioration in economic conditions in one or all of these markets could result in one or more of the following: o an increase in loan delinquencies; o an increase in non-performing loans and foreclosures; o a decrease in the demand for our products and services; and o a decrease in the value of collateral for loans, especially real estate, in turn reducing customers' borrowing power, the value of assets associated with problem loans and collateral coverage. To date, the impact of the adverse economic conditions in our Central Indiana market has been severe. As a result, we have experienced asset quality issues in the Central Indiana market, and we expect to continue to experience higher levels of problem assets in this market unless the economy greatly improves. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue in our Central Indiana market, or if our Bloomington, Indiana market suffers increased levels of market disruption and volatility, our problem assets may increase and the demand for our products and services could be adversely affected, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. FUTURE GROWTH OR OPERATING RESULTS MAY REQUIRE THE COMPANY TO RAISE ADDITIONAL CAPITAL BUT THAT CAPITAL MAY NOT BE AVAILABLE OR IT MAY BE DILUTIVE. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. To the extent our future operating results erode capital or we elect to expand through loan growth or acquisition we may be required to raise capital. Our ability to raise capital will depend on conditions in the capital markets, which are outside of our control, and on our financial performance. 33 Accordingly, we cannot be assured of our ability to raise capital when needed or on favorable terms. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, we will be subject to increased regulatory supervision and the imposition of restrictions on our growth and business. These could negatively impact our ability to operate or further expand our operations through acquisitions or the establishment of additional branches and may result in increases in operating expenses and reductions in revenues that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. OUR ALLOWANCE FOR POSSIBLE LOAN LOSSES MAY BE INSUFFICIENT We maintain an allowance for possible loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for possible loan losses charged to expense that represents management's best estimate of probable losses that have been incurred within the existing portfolio of loans. The allowance, in the judgment of management, is necessary to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. The level of the allowance reflects management's continuing evaluation of industry concentrations; specific credit risks; loan loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic, political and regulatory conditions and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for possible loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires management to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for possible loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. If charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for possible loan losses, we will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for possible loan losses. Any increases in the allowance for possible loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and, possibly, capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. SLOWER THAN ANTICIPATED GROWTH IN THE BANK'S NEW BANKING CENTERS COULD RESULT IN REDUCED NET INCOME We have placed a strategic emphasis on expanding the banking center network of the Bank. We opened a full service banking center in Brownsburg, Hendricks County, Indiana in January of 2006, opened a full service banking center in Plainfield, Hendricks County, Indiana in December of 2007, opened a full service banking center in Avon, Hendricks County, Indiana in January of 2008, and opened a full service banking center in Noblesville, Hamilton County, Indiana in September of 2008. Executing this strategy carries risks of slower than anticipated growth in the new banking centers. New banking centers require a significant investment of both financial and personnel resources. Lower than expected loan and deposit growth in the new banking centers could result in lower than expected revenues and net income generated by those investments. Opening new banking centers could result in more additional expenses than anticipated and divert resources from current core operations. INABILITY TO HIRE OR RETAIN CERTAIN KEY PROFESSIONALS, MANAGEMENT AND STAFF COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR REVENUES AND NET INCOME We rely on key personnel to manage and operate our business, including major revenue generating functions such as the loan and deposit portfolios. The loss of key staff may adversely affect our ability to maintain and manage these portfolios effectively, which could negatively affect our revenues. In addition, loss of key personnel could result in increased recruiting and hiring expenses, which could cause a decrease in our net income. WE ARE SUBJECT TO INTEREST RATE RISK Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and 34 regulatory agencies. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits and the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. WE ARE SUBJECT TO ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITY RISK ASSOCIATED WITH LENDING ACTIVITIES A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, the Company may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, we may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property's value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. WE ARE SUBJECT TO EXTENSIVE GOVERNMENT REGULATION AND SUPERVISION We are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors' funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. These regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. OUR CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES MAY FAIL OR BE CIRCUMVENTED Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. OUR INFORMATION SYSTEMS MAY EXPERIENCE AN INTERRUPTION OR BREACH IN SECURITY We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption 35 or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. CHANGES IN TECHNOLOGY COULD BE COSTLY The banking industry is undergoing technological innovation. In order to maintain our competitive position, we must react to these innovations and evaluate the technologies to enable it to compete on a cost-effective basis. The cost of such technology, including personnel, may be high in both absolute and relative terms. There can be no assurance, given the fast pace of change and innovation, that our technology will meet or continue to meet our needs. THE TRADING VOLUME IN OUR COMMON STOCK IS LESS THAN THAT OF OTHER LARGER FINANCIAL SERVICES COMPANIES Although our common stock is listed for trading on NASDAQ Global Market, the trading volume in our common stock is less than that of other larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Given the lower trading volume of our common stock, significant sales of our common stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause our stock price to fall. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO PAY DIVIDENDS IN THE FUTURE IN ACCORDANCE WITH PAST PRACTICES We may not be able to pay dividends in accordance with past practice. We traditionally pay a quarterly dividend to stockholder. The payment of dividends is subject to legal and regulatory restrictions and, therefore, any payment of dividends in the future will depend in large part on our earnings, capital requirements, financial conditions and other factors considered relevant by our Board of Directors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 