ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a significant degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below together with all of the other information contained in this Report, including the financial statements and the related notes, before deciding whether to purchase any shares of our common stock. If any of the following risks occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could materially suffer. In that event, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. We may be unable to gain a substantial share of the market for batteries. We have only one product line, rechargeable polymer lithium-ion batteries. We began marketing our batteries in the Spring of 2004, and only began to report substantial revenue at the end of 2005. There are many companies, large and small, involved in the market for rechargeable batteries. Some of our existing and potential competitors have longer operating histories and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources. It will be difficult for us to establish a reputation in the market so that manufacturers chose to use our batteries rather than those of our competitors. Unless we are able to expand our sales volume significantly, we will not be able to improve the efficiency of our operation. Our business and growth will suffer if we are unable to hire and retain key personnel that are in high demand. Our future success depends on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled engineers, technical, marketing and customer service personnel, especially qualified personnel for our operations in China. Qualified individuals are in high demand in China, and there are insufficient experienced personnel to fill the demand. Therefore we may not be able to successfully attract or retain the personnel we need to succeed. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could cause us to be less competitive. We are continuously designing and developing new technology. We rely on a combination of copyright and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. Unauthorized use of our technology could damage our ability to compete effectively. In China, monitoring unauthorized use of our products is difficult and costly. In addition, intellectual property law in China is less developed than in the United States and historically China has not protected intellectual property to the same extent as it is protected in other jurisdictions, such as the United States. Any resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, and might be unsuccessful. We may have difficulty establishing adequate management and financial controls in China and in complying with U.S. corporate governance and accounting requirements. 6 The People’s Republic of China has only recently begun to adopt the management and financial reporting concepts and practices that investors in the United States are familiar with. We may have difficulty in hiring and retaining employees in China who have the experience necessary to implement the kind of management and financial controls that are expected of a United States public company. If we cannot establish such controls, we may experience difficulty in collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records and instituting business practices that meet U.S. standards. We are also subject to the rules and regulations of the United States, including the SEC, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations of the NASDAQ Stock Market. We expect to incur significant costs associated with our public company reporting requirements, costs associated with applicable corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other rules implemented by the SEC and requirements in connection with the continued listing of our common stock on the NASDAQ Stock Market. If we cannot assess our internal control over financial reporting as effective, or our independent registered public accountants are unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on such assessment, investor confidence and share value may be negatively impacted. Most of our assets are located in China, any dividends or proceeds from liquidation are subject to the approval of the relevant Chinese government agencies. Our assets are predominantly located inside China. Under the laws governing Foreign-invested Entities in China, dividend distribution and liquidation are allowed but subject to special procedures under the relevant laws and rules. Any dividend payment will be subject to the decision of the board of directors and subject to foreign exchange rules governing such repatriation. Any liquidation is subject to both the relevant government agency’s approval and supervision as well the foreign exchange control. This may generate additional risk for our investors in case of dividend payment or liquidation. We have limited business insurance coverage. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products, and do not, to our knowledge, offer business liability insurance. As a result, we do not have any business liability insurance coverage for our operations. Moreover, while business disruption insurance is available, we have determined that the risks of disruption and cost of the insurance are such that we do not require it at this time. Any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster might result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. Our operations are international, and we are subject to significant political, economic, legal and other uncertainties (including, but not limited to, trade barriers and taxes that may have an adverse effect on our business and operations. We manufacture all of our products in China and substantially all of the net book value of our total fixed assets is located there. However, we sell our products to customers outside of China as well as domestically. As a result, we may experience barriers to conducting business and trade in our targeted markets in the form of delayed customs clearances, customs duties and tariffs. In addition, we may be subject to repatriation taxes levied upon the exchange of income from local currency into foreign currency, as well as substantial taxes of profits, revenues, assets or payroll, as well as value-added tax. The markets in which we plan to operate may impose onerous and unpredictable duties, tariffs and taxes on our business and products. Any of these barriers and taxes could have an adverse effect on our finances and operations. 7 Environmental compliance and remediation could result in substantially increased capital requirements and operating costs. Our operating subsidiary, ZQ Power-Tech, is subject to numerous Chinese provincial and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. These laws continue to evolve and are becoming increasingly stringent. The ultimate impact of complying with such laws and regulations is not always clearly known or determinable because regulations under some of these laws have not yet been promulgated or are undergoing revision. Our consolidated business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected if ZQ Power-Tech were required to increase expenditures to comply with any new environmental regulations affecting its operations. We may be required to raise additional financing by issuing new securities with terms or rights superior to those of our shares of common stock, which could adversely affect the market price of our shares of common stock. We may require additional financing to fund future operations, develop and exploit existing and new products and to expand into new markets. We may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, if at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, the percentage ownership of our current shareholders will be reduced, and the holders of the new equity securities may have rights superior to those of the holders of shares of common stock, which could adversely affect the market price and the voting power of shares of our common stock. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt securities, the holders of these debt securities would similarly have some rights senior to those of the holders of shares of common stock, and the terms of these debt securities could impose restrictions on operations and create a significant interest expense for us. The NASDAQ Capital Market may delist our common stock from trading on its exchange, which could limit investors’ ability to effect transactions in our common stock and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. We cannot assure you that our common stock will continue to be listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market in the future. If the NASDAQ Capital Market delists our common stock from trading on its exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences including: · a limited availability of market quotations for our common stock; · a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and · a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. 8 We do not intend to pay any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future and, therefore, any return on your investment in our common stock must come from increases in the fair market value and trading price of our common stock. We have never paid a cash dividend on our common stock. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future and, therefore, any return on your investment in our common stock must come from increases in the fair market value and trading price of our common stock. Our international operations require us to comply with a number of U.S. and international regulations. We need to comply with a number of international regulations in countries outside of the United States. In addition, we must comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, which prohibits U.S. companies or their agents and employees from providing anything of value to a foreign official for the purposes of influencing any act or decision of these individuals in their official capacity to help obtain or retain business, direct business to any person or corporate entity or obtain any unfair advantage. Any failure by us to adopt appropriate compliance procedures and ensure that our employees and agents comply with the FCPA and applicable laws and regulations in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial penalties or restrictions on our ability to conduct business in certain foreign jurisdictions. The U.S. Department of The Treasury’s Office of Foreign Asset Control, or OFAC, administers and enforces economic and trade sanctions against targeted foreign countries, entities and individuals based on U.S. foreign policy and national security goals. As a result, we are restricted from entering into transactions with certain targeted foreign countries, entities and individuals except as permitted by OFAC which may reduce our future growth. All of our assets are located in China and changes in the political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a significant impact upon what business we may be able to conduct in the PRC and accordingly on the results of our operations and financial condition. Our business operations may be adversely affected by the current and future political environment in the PRC. The Chinese government exerts substantial influence and control over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities. Our ability to operate in China may be adversely affected by changes in Chinese laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, raw materials, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. Under the current government leadership, the government of the PRC has been pursuing economic reform policies that encourage private economic activity and greater economic decentralization. There is no assurance, however, that the government of the PRC will continue to pursue these policies, or that it will not significantly alter these policies from time to time without notice. 9 Our operations are subject to PRC laws and regulations that are sometimes vague and uncertain. Any changes in such PRC laws and regulations, or the interpretations thereof, may have a material and adverse effect on our business. Our principal operating subsidiary, ZQ Power-Tech, is considered a foreign invested enterprise under PRC laws, and as a result is required to comply with PRC laws and regulations. Unlike the common law system prevalent in the United States, decided legal cases have little value as precedent in China. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations, including but not limited to the laws and regulations governing our business and the enforcement and performance of our arrangements with customers in the event of the imposition of statutory liens, death, bankruptcy or criminal proceedings. The Chinese government has been developing a comprehensive system of commercial laws. However, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published cases and judicial interpretation and their lack of force as precedents, interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve significant uncertainties. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. We cannot predict what effect the interpretation of existing or new PRC laws or regulations may have on our businesses. If the relevant authorities find us in violation of PRC laws or regulations, they would have broad discretion in dealing with such a violation. The scope of our business license in China is limited, and we may not expand or continue our business without government approval and renewal, respectively. Our principal operating subsidiary, ZQ Power-Tech, is a wholly foreign-owned enterprise organized under PRC law, commonly known as a WFOE. A WFOE can only conduct business within its approved business scope, which ultimately appears on its business license. In order for us to expand our business beyond the scope of our license, we will be required to enter into a negotiation with the authorities for the approval to expand the scope of our business. We cannot assure you that ZQ Power-Tech will be able to obtain the necessary government approval for any change or expansion of our business scope. We may never pay any dividends to our stockholders. We have not paid any cash dividends on shares of our common stock. We currently intend to retain all available funds and future earnings, if any, to support our operations and finance the growth and development of our business. Our board of directors does not intend to distribute dividends in the foreseeable future. The declaration, payment and amount of any future dividends, if any, will be made at the discretion of the board of directors, and will depend upon, among other things, the results of our operations, cash flows and financial condition, operating and capital requirements, and other factors the board of directors considers relevant. There is no assurance that future dividends will be paid, and if dividends are paid, there is no assurance with respect to the amount of any such dividend. 10 Our business development, future performance, strategic plans, and other objectives would be hindered if we lost the services of our Chairman. Fu Zhiguo is the Chief Executive Officer of Advanced Battery Technologies and of our operating subsidiary, ZQ Power-Tech. Mr. Fu is responsible for strategizing not only our business plan but also the means of financing it. Mr. Fu has also, from time to time, provided his personal funds to meet the working capital needs of ZQ Power-Tech. If Mr. Fu were to leave Advanced Battery Technologies or become unable to fulfill his responsibilities, our business would be imperiled. At the very least, there would be a delay in the development of Advanced Battery Technologies until a suitable replacement for Mr. Fu could be retained. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 