Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to factors mentioned elsewhere in this report, the factors contained below, among others, could cause our financial condition and results of operations to be materially and adversely affected and could cause our actual business and financial results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made in this report or presented elsewhere by management from time to time. We may require additional financing to operate our business We currently believe that our existing capital resources, including cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, assets related to discontinued operations, cash expected to be received from holdbacks associated with the sale of our institutional consolidated market data feed business, and available credit under a Secured Convertible Promissory Note issued by us to PICO Holdings, Inc. (“PICO”) in the principal amount of $10.0 million on March 30, 2006 (the “2006 Convertible Note”) are sufficient to fund our operations over the next twelve months. Although we currently believe that our existing capital resources are sufficient, no assurances can be made that this will be so. If we require additional capital resources to continue to fund our operations, there can be no assurances that such capital will be available or available on terms satisfactory to the Company. We may issue additional shares and significantly dilute our stockholders’ ownership percentage Some events over which stockholders have no control could result in the issuance of additional shares of HyperFeed’s common stock, which would dilute our stockholders’ ownership percentage in us. For example, we may issue additional shares of HyperFeed’s common stock to raise additional capital or we may be obligated to issue additional shares of HyperFeed’s common stock upon the conversion of the 2006 Convertible Note. In particular, the 2006 Convertible Note provides that the number of shares that PICO would receive in connection with a conversion of any amounts outstanding under the 2006 Convertible Note would be determined by dividing the total outstanding amount to be converted by the lesser of (i) 80% of the five-day moving average per share price of HyperFeed’s common stock on the date of conversion or (ii) 80% of $1.05 per share. The number of shares of HyperFeed’s common stock issuable upon conversion of the 2006 Convertible Note is not subject to a cap. The number of shares that may be issued in connection with the conversion of the 2006 Convertible Note could increase substantially if the market price of HyperFeed’s common stock decreases during the period the 2006 Convertible Note is outstanding. For example, the number of shares of HyperFeed’s common stock that we would be required to issue upon conversion of $10.0 million of amounts outstanding under the 2006 Convertible Note would be 11,904,762 based upon the last sale price for HyperFeed’s common stock of $1.05 per share, as reported in the consolidated quotation system on March 28, 2006. However, if the price for HyperFeed’s common stock fell to $0.85 per share, we would be obligated to issue 14,705,882 shares upon the conversion of $10.0 million of amounts outstanding under the 2006 Convertible Note. Failure to execute our current business model will adversely affect our business and your investment in us. We expect to face many challenges in building our business around our current business model. In particular, our ability to 10 successfully execute our current business model will be dependent on our ability to maintain and develop advanced ticker plant technologies in a cost effective manner and aggressively license such technologies to the financial services industry. If we fail to successfully execute our current business model, our business and your investment in us will be adversely affected. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience significant period-to-period fluctuations in our revenue and operating results, which may result in volatility in the price of our stock. Our quarterly revenue and operating results have varied significantly in the past and are likely to vary substantially from quarter to quarter in the future. In particular, the execution of our current business model may increase volatility in our quarterly revenue and operating results. Accordingly, period-to-period comparisons should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. In addition, these variations may cause our stock price to fluctuate. If quarterly results fail to meet public expectations, the price of our stock may decline. We have a recent history of operating losses and may not become or remain profitable. We have sustained significant losses in recent years and may not become profitable in the future. If we incur additional losses or fail to achieve profitability in the future, this will hinder our ability to operate our current business and may affect the trading price of HyperFeed’s common stock. Before the gain on the sales of our discontinued operations, net of taxes, we incurred a net loss of $2.7 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003, a net loss of $5.3 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004, and a net loss of $9.8 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $54.8 million. These conditions raise doubt about our ability to operate profitably in the future, however management has plans to continue to fund our operations. See Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We may not be able to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving industry standards, and customer preferences. The financial services industry is constantly changing and evolving. Recent trends in this industry have included consolidated market data feed vendor consolidation, the proliferation of program trading, and the advent of new products from market data sources. Together with the effect of current economic conditions, these factors are influencing financial institutions to get market data feeds directly from each market data source. While we introduced our HTPX model in response to these emerging trends, the financial services industry will likely continue to change and evolve. The success of our business will depend on our ability to successfully foresee, identify, and adapt to evolving trends in the industries in which we operate. In addition, the financial services industry has experienced and is continuing to experience rapid technological advances and developments. We are actively engaged in research and development activities to try to meet our customers’ needs and preferences. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be successful in addressing technological advances and developments on a timely basis or that, if addressed, we will be successful in the marketplace. A delay or failure to address technological advances and developments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, there can be no assurance that technologies developed by others will not render our products and services noncompetitive or obsolete. Our financial performance is highly dependent on the timely and successful introduction of new products and services. Our financial performance depends in large part upon our ability to successfully develop and market next generation and new products and services in a rapidly changing technological and economic environment. If we fail to successfully identify new product opportunities and timely develop and introduce new products that achieve market acceptance, we may lose our market share and our future revenue and earnings may suffer. 11 If we are not able to manage our growth effectively, we may not become profitable. We anticipate that expansion of our business will continue to be required to address potential market opportunities. There can be no assurance that our infrastructure will be sufficiently scalable to manage our experienced growth and any future projected growth. If we are unable to sufficiently enhance and scale our infrastructure to handle this growth, our profitability may suffer. There also can be no assurance that if we continue to expand our operations, management will be effective in expanding our physical facilities or that our systems, procedures or controls will be adequate to support such expansion. Our inability to manage our growth may harm our business. Our products may contain defects, which may result in liability and/or decreased sales. Software products frequently contain errors or failures, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released. Despite our best efforts to test our products, we might experience significant errors or failures in our products, or they might not work with other hardware or software as expected, which could delay the development or release of new products or new versions of our products and adversely affect market acceptance of our products. We might not discover software errors that affect our new or current products or enhancements until after they are deployed, and we may need to provide enhancements to correct such errors. These errors could result in: • harm to our reputation; • lost sales; • delays in commercial release; • product liability claims; • delays in or loss of market acceptance of our products; and • unexpected expenses and diversion of resources to remedy errors. Because competition for highly qualified sales and software development personnel is intense, we may not be able to attract and retain the employees we need to support our planned growth. To execute our growth plan, we have increased the size of our sales force and software development staff. To successfully meet our objectives, we must continue to attract and retain highly qualified sales and software development personnel with specialized skill sets focused on our industry. Competition for qualified sales and software development personnel can be intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in retaining current employees or attracting and retaining new ones. The pool of qualified personnel with experience working with or selling in our market space is limited. Our ability to expand our sales team will depend on our ability to recruit, train and retain top quality people with advanced skills who understand sales in our market space. Because the sale of solutions such as ours is still relatively new, there is a shortage of sales personnel with the experience we need. We have from time to time in the past experienced, and we expect to continue to experience in the future, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications for our business. In addition, it takes time for our new sales personnel to become productive, particularly with respect to obtaining major customer accounts. In many cases, newly hired sales personnel are unable to develop their skills rapidly enough, which results in a relatively high turnover rate and a corresponding increased need to make continual new hires. If we are unable to hire or retain qualified sales and software development personnel, or if newly hired personnel fail to develop the necessary skills or reach productivity slower than anticipated, it would be more difficult for us to sell our solutions, and we may experience a shortfall in revenues and not achieve our planned growth. Any failure to protect our intellectual property rights could impair our ability to protect our proprietary technology and establish our brand. Our success and ability to compete depend in part on our internally developed technology and software applications. We rely on patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws and restrictions in the United States and other jurisdictions, together with contractual restrictions on our employees, strategic partners and customers, to protect our proprietary rights. Any of our trademarks may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative process or litigation. We may not be successful in obtaining patent protection for our products and we may be unable to obtain additional patent protection in the future. In addition, any issued patents may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may be challenged by third parties. Furthermore, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights are uncertain. Effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available to us in every country in which our solution is available. As a result, we cannot assure you that our means of protecting our proprietary rights will be adequate. Furthermore, despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property. Any such infringement or misappropriation could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and prospects for growth. 12 Our publicly-filed reports are subject to review from time to time by the SEC. The reports of publicly-traded companies are subject to review by the SEC from time to time for the purpose of assisting companies in complying with applicable disclosure requirements. SEC reviews may be initiated at any time. While we believe that our previously filed SEC reports comply, and we intend that all future reports will comply in all material respects with the published rules and regulations of the SEC, we could be required to modify, amend or reformulate information contained in prior filings as a result of an SEC review. Any modification, amendment or reformulation of information contained in such reports could be significant and result in material liability to us and have a material adverse impact on the trading price of HyperFeed’s common stock. A principal stockholder is in a position to control matters requiring stockholder vote. PICO owns 80.1% of HyperFeed’s common stock. If PICO elects to convert all or any portion of amounts we borrow under the 2006 Convertible Note into HyperFeed’s common stock, PICO could own a significantly larger proportion of HyperFeed’s common stock. Accordingly, PICO is in a position to control the outcome of matters requiring a stockholder vote, including the election of directors. Such control could have the effect of discouraging, or making more difficult, an unsolicited acquisition of us by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest or otherwise. We rely on software licensing agreements from third parties that could be terminated or allowed to expire. We license software applications from unaffiliated third parties. The termination of these license agreements by unaffiliated third parties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In particular, during the 24 month period following Reuters’ delivery of the TRS software to us, the European Union may modify our license agreement with Reuters if it determines that we are unsuccessful in implementing our HMDP business model or do not become an effective competitor in this market. These license agreements are for initial terms and provide for automatic renewals unless terminated by delivering written notice prior to the renewal date. We believe that Reuters has failed to fulfill its obligations under the license agreement for the TRS and Active8 technologies. We have licensed the source code for the TRS and Active8 technologies from Reuters and Telerate. We believe that Reuters has failed to provide us certain technology that Reuters is required to provide us under the license agreement, and we believe Reuters has taken certain other actions that conflict with Reuters’ obligations under the license agreement. As a result, we did not pay to Reuters the scheduled license fee payment due under the license agreement in January 2006. If we are unable to obtain the completion of Reuters’ obligations under the license agreement, or if the license agreement is terminated, our ability to develop and commercialize our HMDP product offering could be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We compete with companies that have greater financial, technical, and monetary resources than we do, which could result in additional pricing pressures on us and reduce our profitability. We believe the market for ticker plant technologies used to facilitate and manage direct market data feeds in an HTPX model is significant and has expanded due to key trends in the financial services industry. Direct competitors include small consulting firms that sell market data feed servers and in-house development teams, but these firms only compete with HyperFeed on the first level of service (source servers) involving FEPs. Examples of these types of firms are InfoDyne and Wombat Consulting. We do not believe that these firms currently offer ticker plant services such as time/sales, money flow and bid/ask, data management tools, ZLC technologies or SDKs and adaptors. We believe that a multitude of consultancy and software providers exist that can offer one-time solutions that compare with our offerings but, to our knowledge, these consultancy and software providers do not offer the highly configurable software and customized development offered by us. We believe that there are large companies in the financial market data industry that can offer more comprehensive consolidated data feed products. Though these products do not match the speed of receiving data directly from market data sources, they may be more cost effective and offer greater breadth of data. In addition, these firms may develop and launch a product that competes directly with our ticker plant technologies. We believe our primary competitors in this area include Reuters, Thomson Corporation, IDC, and Bloomberg. These competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, and marketing resources and greater name recognition than we do. Our goal is to license our technology to these premiere data providers. Nonetheless, there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve our goal or otherwise compete successfully with our existing competitors or with any new competitors. 13 Our licensing and consulting contracts may subject us to litigation, which may be costly for us to defend. Many of our contracts are for services and software technologies that are critical to the operations of our customers’ businesses. The failure or inability to deliver services and software to our customers’ satisfaction could have a material adverse effect on their operations and could consequently subject us to litigation. Any litigation could cause us to incur legal fees and use management resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our software may infringe on intellectual property rights of others, which may subject us to litigation. We believe that our services and software applications do not infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others and that we have all rights necessary to utilize the intellectual property employed in our business. However, we are subject to the risk of litigation alleging infringement of third-party intellectual property rights. We typically license the software we develop for use by our customers, and we generally agree to indemnify our customers against potential third-party intellectual property rights claims. Any claims could require us to: • spend significant sums in litigation; • pay damages; • develop non-infringing intellectual property; and/or • acquire licenses to the intellectual property that is the subject of asserted infringement. We depend on a limited number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenue and a loss of current major customers would significantly reduce our revenue. A limited number of customers historically have accounted for a substantial portion of our revenue. In the fiscal year ending December 31, 2005, revenue from one customer represented approximately 18% of our consolidated revenue from continuing operations. In the fiscal year ending December 31, 2004, revenue from one customer represented approximately 60% and another approximately 11% of our consolidated revenue from continuing operations. We have experienced significant changes from year to year in the composition of our major customer base and believe this pattern will continue. The loss of or a significant reduction in purchases by current major customers that are not offset by corresponding increases from other current or future customers would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We rely heavily on executive officers who do not have employment contracts. Our success is highly dependent upon the efforts and abilities of our executive officers. The loss of services of one or more of our executive officers or other key personnel for any reason could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Although our executive officers have entered into agreements with us that contain nondisclosure covenants, those agreements do not guarantee their continued employment with us. We continue to recruit financial, technical, and operational personnel. Competition for these people is intense and we may not be able to attract and retain qualified replacements or additional technical or operational personnel. We may not be successful in finding suitable replacements for any senior management personnel who may leave us. Our anti-takeover provisions may not be in the best interests of our stockholders. Our Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws, the Delaware General Corporation Law and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, contain certain provisions that could have the effect of discouraging or making more difficult the acquisition of us by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest or otherwise, even though an acquisition might be economically beneficial to our stockholders. Our anti-takeover provisions include: • only the Board of Directors or an authorized special committee of the Board of Directors may call meetings of stockholders; and • stockholders must comply with certain advance notice procedures to nominate candidates for election as directors and to submit proposals for consideration at stockholders’ meetings. These provisions may make the removal of management more difficult, even in cases where such removal would be favorable to the interests of our stockholders. 14 Item 