Risk Factors Which May Affect Future Results With the exception of historical data, the information contained in this Report, as well as those other documents incorporated by reference herein, may constitute forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the Federal securities laws, including but not limited to the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When used, words such as "anticipate", "believe", "expect", "intend", "may", "might", "plan", "estimate", "project", "should", "will be", "will result" and similar words or phrases which do not relate solely to historical matters or data are intended to identify forward-looking statements. The Company cautions investors that forward-looking statements are based upon management beliefs and assumptions and information currently available to management. As such, forward-looking statements are subject to numerous uncertainties and may be affected by known and unknown risks, trends and factors that are beyond the Company's control. In the event that such risks materialize, trends or factors change, or beliefs or assumptions prove incorrect, the Company's actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied herein. The risk factors which may affect the Company's future results include, but are not limited to, the following: Financial and Administrative Risks The costs of the Company's day-to-day operations are subject to numerous and varied risks including, but not limited to, increases or fluctuations in interest rates, level of Company indebtedness, ability of the Company to maintain sufficient levels of liquidity, failure of the Company to comply with the covenants included in the Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (or obtain needed waivers and amendments to its financing agreements), failure of the Company to obtain equity capital, deterioration of the creditworthiness of significant customers; impact of changes in accounting standards; increases in pension and medical benefit costs; decreases in the Company's stock price, amount and rate of growth of the Company's selling, general and administrative expenses; potential legal proceedings; adverse regulatory developments and the loss of one of more key employees. The Company's primary financing agreements contain various financial covenants, including a restriction limiting the Company's total debt outstanding to a pre-determined multiple of the prior rolling twelve months earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, and restructuring expense (EBITDAR). The Company was in compliance with its covenants as of January 29, 2005, but anticipated violating the covenants at the end of the second quarter of the fiscal year ending January 28, 2006. As a result, in March 2005 the Company began discussing amendments to those covenants with its lenders. On April 7, 2005, the Company's lending syndicate approved an amendment to the Company's credit agreement providing less restrictive financial covenants (beginning with the first quarter of the fiscal year ending January 2006), consenting to the sale of certain non-core assets, and authorizing the release of certain proceeds from the assets sold. The revised financial covenants extend through the fiscal year ending January 2007. Therefore, as a result of the amendment to the credit agreement described above and the additional actions taken by the Company during the fiscal year ended January 29, 2005 and subsequent to the balance sheet date, the Company's Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm has excluded the "Going Concern" explanatory paragraph from their report dated April 14, 2005 that was previously included in the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm's report, dated April 30, 2004, for the prior fiscal year ended January 31, 2004. Notwithstanding this amendment, and although not anticipated, the Company could default in compliance with various of the covenants and provisions of its Credit Agreement. These defaults, if unremediated, could cause the lenders to declare the principal outstanding to be payable immediately. Such an event would create an immediate and material liquidity crisis for the Company. Production and Procurement Risks Following the closure of its Sherrill, New York flatware manufacturing facility, the Company will source substantially all of its products overseas, primarily from third party manufacturers in the Far East. This overseas sourcing subjects the Company to the numerous risks of doing business abroad, including but not limited to, rapid changes in economic or political conditions, civil unrest, political instability, war, terrorist attacks, international health epidemics such as the SARS outbreak, strikes or labor disputes, currency fluctuations, increasing export duties, trade sanctions and tariffs, difficulties or delays in production or shipment of products, variations in product quality and souring of supplier relationships. Marketing and Sales Risks 8 In each of the Company's three markets, Consumer, Foodservice and International, risks impact the effectiveness of marketing plans and the level of sales. These risks include, but are not limited to, general economic conditions in the Company's own markets and related markets, industry production and sales capacity, impact of competitive products and pricing, difficulties or delays in the development of new products, difficulties or delays in the delivery of products to customers, ability to forecast design trends, validity of assumptions related to customer purchasing patterns, market acceptance of new products, product quality and performance issues, ability to maintain high customer service levels, and volume of inventory obsolescence. In addition to the more general risks associated with all three of the Company's markets, the Company's International Division is also subject to the numerous risks of doing business abroad, including but not limited to, rapid changes in economic or political conditions, civil unrest, political instability, war, terrorist attacks, international health epidemics such as the SARS outbreak, strikes or labor disputes, currency fluctuations, increasing export duties and trade sanctions and tariffs. Company Information. The Company maintains a website at www.oneida.com. On the "Investor Information" section of this website the Company makes available without cost its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and other public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company has filed these materials. The Company is not including the information contained on the Company's website as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K or any other report that the Company files with or furnishes to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Copies of any of these materials are also available in print. For print copies, stockholders should submit written requests to Oneida Ltd., Investor Relations Department, 163-181 Kenwood Avenue, Oneida, New York 13421. 