ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently know to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. Please see page 22 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional discussion of these forward-looking statements. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Financial and Administrative Risks The costs of the Company’s day-to-day operations are subject to numerous and varied risks including, but not limited to, successful conclusion of its Chapter 11 proceeding, increases or fluctuations in interest rates, level of Company indebtedness, ability of the Company to maintain sufficient levels of liquidity, failure of the Company to comply with the covenants included in the DIP Agreement (or obtain needed waivers and amendments to its financing agreements), failure of the Company to obtain equity capital, deterioration of the creditworthiness of significant customers; impact of changes in accounting standards; increases in medical benefit costs; amount and rate of growth of the Company’s selling, general and administrative expenses; amount of professional fees incurred in connection with the Chapter 11 proceeding, potential legal proceedings; adverse regulatory developments and the loss of one of more key employees. The Company’s viability is dependent upon the confirmation of the Plan by the Bankruptcy Court. If the Company is unable to achieve approval of the Plan, it will need to raise additional capital, obtain covenant waivers from its existing lenders or seek additional investors. Due to the uncertainty associated with the confirmation of the Plan, there can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in any or all of these endeavors, and failure may affect the Company’s ability to continue to operate its business. Impairment charges for goodwill and indefinite life intangibles could adversely affect the Company’s earnings. The Company tests for impairment of goodwill and indefinite life intangibles in accordance with SFAS No. 142 in the third quarter each year, or more often in certain circumstances where impairment indicators arise. To the extent that the Company experiences goodwill and/or indefinite life intangibles impairment charges in the future, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Production and Procurement Risks The Company sources substantially all of its products overseas, primarily from third party manufacturers in the Far East. The overseas sourcing of product subjects the Company to the numerous risks of doing business abroad, including but not limited to, rapid changes in economic or political conditions, civil unrest, political instability, war, terrorist attacks, international health 9 epidemics such as the SARS outbreak, strikes or labor disputes, currency fluctuations, increasing export duties, trade sanctions and tariffs, difficulties or delays in production or shipment of products, variations in product quality and souring of supplier relationships. In addition, the Company is exposed to raw material supply shortages and corresponding price increases. In addition, the Company’s reliance on manufacturing sources within China, in particular, is subject to risk that could affect the Company’s ability to procure products. Various commercial and legal practices within China are under review by the United States Government and the World Trade Organization. The Company is unable to predict what actions may be taken in retaliation to China’s practices. Accordingly, the ability to conduct business with vendors located in China is subject to political uncertainties, the financial impact is not estimatible. Marketing and Sales Risks In each of the Company’s three markets, Consumer, Foodservice and International, risks impact the effectiveness of marketing plans and the level of sales. These risks include, but are not limited to, general economic conditions in the Company’s own markets and related markets, industry production and sales capacity, impact of competitive products and pricing, difficulties or delays in the development of new products, difficulties or delays in the delivery of products to customers, ability to forecast design trends, validity of assumptions related to customer purchasing patterns, market acceptance of new products, product quality and performance issues, ability to maintain high customer service levels, and extent of inventory obsolescence. In addition to the more general risks associated with all three of the Company’s markets, the Company’s International Division is also subject to the numerous risks of doing business abroad, including but not limited to, rapid changes in economic or political conditions, civil unrest, political instability, war, terrorist attacks, international health epidemics such as the SARS outbreak, strikes or labor disputes, currency fluctuations, increasing export duties and trade sanctions and tariffs. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 