Item 1A. Risk FactorsGlowpoint’s business faces numerous risks, including those set forth below or those described elsewhere in this Form 10-K Annual Report or in our other filings with the SEC. The risks described below are not the only risks that we face, nor are they -6-necessarily listed in order of significance. Other risks and uncertainties may also affect our business. Any of these risks may have a material adverse effect on Glowpoint’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.Risks Related to Our BusinessOur business activities may require additional financing that might not be obtainable on acceptable terms, if at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and our ability to operate going forward.Although there can be no assurance, our management believes that based on our current plan there are sufficient capital resources from existing levels of cash and operations, including our revolving loan facility, to finance our operational requirements through at least March 31, 2014. Our capital requirements continue to depend on numerous factors, including the timing of revenues, the expense involved in development of our systems and products, realizing cost reductions on our technology, capital improvements and the cost involved in protecting our proprietary rights. If we are unable to maintain profitability, or if unforeseen events occur that would require additional funding, we may need to raise capital or incur debt to fund our operations. We would expect to seek such capital through sales of additional equity or debt securities and/or loans from financial institutions, but there can be no assurance that funds will be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all, and any sales of such securities may be dilutive to investors. Failure to obtain financing or obtaining financing on unfavorable terms could result in a decrease in our stock price and could have a material adverse effect on future operating prospects, or require us to significantly reduce operations.We may fail to comply with covenants contained in our agreements with our Lenders. The Company is currently in compliance with all of its financial covenants under its October 1, 2012 loan agreements with Comerica Bank and Escalate Capital Partners SBIC I, L.P, as amended. The company recently amended its covenants under such loan agreements to more accurately reflect the Company's financial capabilities and anticipated operations. In the future, if the Company were to violate any of its covenants under its loan agreements, and it were unable to further amend its loan agreements, any such violations could cause an acceleration of the indebtedness under the loan agreements. An acceleration of the indebtedness under the loan agreements would have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. We have a history of substantial net losses and we may incur future net losses, which may cause a decrease in our stock price.While we generated net income for fiscal year 2012 and 2011, we reported a substantial loss from operations in all prior years since 2000. We cannot assure you that we will achieve revenue growth or profitability or generate positive cash flow on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. If we do not remain profitable in the future, the value of our common stock may be adversely impacted and we could have difficulty obtaining funds to continue our operations.Our success is highly dependent on the evolution of our overall market and on general economic conditions.The market for video communication services is evolving rapidly. Although certain industry analysts project significant growth for this market, their projections may not be realized. Our future growth depends on acceptance and adoption of video communications. There can be no assurance that the market for our services will grow, that our services will be adopted, that customers will desire higher quality or that businesses will purchase our suite of managed video services. If we are unable to react quickly to changes in the market, if the market fails to develop or develops more slowly than expected, or if our services do not achieve market acceptance, then we are unlikely to remain profitable. Additionally, current economic conditions may cause a decline in business and consumer spending which could adversely affect our business and financial performance.We are exposed to the credit and other counterparty risk of our customers in the ordinary course of our business.Our customers have varying degrees of creditworthiness and we may not always be able to fully anticipate or detect deterioration in their creditworthiness and overall financial condition, which could expose us to an increased risk of nonpayment under our contracts with them. In the event that a material customer or customers default on their payment obligations to us, discontinue buying services from us or use their buying power with us to lower our revenue, this could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.Our future plans could be adversely affected if we are unable to attract or retain key personnel.We have attracted a highly skilled management team and specialized workforce. Our future success is dependent in part on attracting and retaining qualified management and technical personnel. Our inability to hire qualified personnel on a timely basis, -7-or the departure of key employees, could materially and adversely affect our business development and therefore, our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition.We may have difficulty managing our growth.If we successfully increase our sales substantially, we expect to hire more employees and expand our operations. This growth may place a strain on our management, our operations and our systems. Our ability to manage this growth will depend upon our ability to broaden our management team and our ability to attract, hire and retain skilled employees. Our success will also depend on the ability of our officers and key employees to continue to implement and improve our operational, financial and other systems, to manage multiple customer relationships concurrently, and to hire, train and manage our employees. Our future success is dependent upon growth. If we cannot scale our business appropriately or otherwise adapt to this growth, this could adversely affect our results of operations.If our actual liability for sales and use taxes and regulatory fees is different from our accrued liability, it could have a material impact on our financial condition.Sales and use taxes and regulatory fees are supposed to be, or are routinely, collected from customers and remitted to the applicable authorities in certain circumstances. All of our tax positions are subject to audit. While we believe all of our estimates and assumptions are reasonable and will be sustained upon audit, actual liabilities and credits may differ. If so, it may impact our financial condition negatively if we underestimated our liability.Our failure to obtain or maintain the right to use certain intellectual property may negatively affect our business.Our future success and competitive position depends in part upon our ability to obtain and maintain certain proprietary intellectual property to be used in connection with our services. While we are not currently engaged in any intellectual property litigation, we could become subject to lawsuits in which it is alleged that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of others or we could commence lawsuits against others who we believe are infringing upon our rights. Our involvement in intellectual property litigation could result in significant expense to us, adversely affecting the development of sales of the challenged product and diverting the efforts of our technical and management personnel, whether or not such litigation is resolved in our favor.In the event of an adverse outcome as a defendant in any such litigation, we may, among other things, be required to: pay substantial damages; cease the development, use or sale of services that infringe upon other patented intellectual property; expend significant resources to develop or acquire non-infringing intellectual property; discontinue the use or incorporation of infringing technology; or obtain licenses to the infringing intellectual property. We cannot ensure that we would be successful in such development or acquisition or that such licenses would be available upon reasonable terms. Any such development, acquisition or license could require the expenditure of substantial time and other resources and could have a negative effect on our business and financial results.An adverse outcome as plaintiff, in addition to the costs involved, may, among other things, result in the loss of the intellectual property (such as a patent) that was the subject of the lawsuit by a determination of invalidity or unenforceability, significantly increase competition as a result of such determination, and require the payment of penalties resulting from counterclaims by the defendant.We may not be able to protect the rights to our intellectual property.Failure to protect our existing intellectual property rights may result in the loss of our exclusivity or the right to use our technologies. If we do not adequately ensure our freedom to use certain technology, we may have to pay others for rights to use their intellectual property, pay damages for infringement or misappropriation and/or be enjoined from using such intellectual property. We rely on patent, trade secret, trademark and copyright law to protect our intellectual property. Some of our intellectual property is not covered by any patent or patent application. As we further develop our services and related intellectual property, we expect to seek additional patent protection. Our patent position is subject to complex factual and legal issues that may give rise to uncertainty as to the validity, scope and enforceability of a particular patent. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that: any of the patents owned by us or other patents that other parties license to us in the future will not be invalidated, circumvented, challenged, rendered unenforceable or licensed to others; any of our pending or future patent applications will be issued with the breadth of claim coverage sought by us, if issued at all; or any patents owned by or licensed to us, although valid, will not be dominated by a patent or patents to others having broader claims. Additionally, effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable, limited or not applied for in certain foreign countries.-8-We also seek to protect our proprietary intellectual property, including intellectual property that may not be patented or patentable, in part by confidentiality agreements. We cannot ensure that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach or that such persons will not assert rights to intellectual property arising out of these relationships.We depend upon our network providers and facilities infrastructure.Our success depends upon our ability to implement, expand and adapt our network infrastructure and support services to accommodate an increasing amount of video traffic and evolving customer requirements at an acceptable cost. This has required and will continue to require that we enter into agreements with providers of infrastructure capacity, equipment, facilities and support services on an ongoing basis. We cannot ensure that any of these agreements can be obtained on satisfactory terms and conditions. We also anticipate that future expansions and adaptations of our network infrastructure facilities may be necessary in order to respond to growth in the number of customers served.We depend upon suppliers and have limited sources for some services.We rely on other companies to supply some components of our network infrastructure and the means to access our network. Some of the products and services that we resell and certain components that we require for our network are available only from limited sources. We could be adversely affected if such sources were to become unavailable to us on commercially reasonable terms. We cannot ensure that, on an ongoing basis, we will be able to obtain third-party services cost-effectively and on the scale and within the time frames that we require, if at all. Failure to obtain or to continue to make use of such third-party services would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our network could fail, which could negatively impact our revenues.To an extent, our success depends upon our ability to deliver reliable, high-speed access to our channels' and customers' data centers and upon the ability and willingness of our telecommunications providers to deliver reliable, high-speed telecommunications service through their networks. Our network and facilities, and other networks and facilities providing services to us, are vulnerable to damage, unauthorized accessor cessation of operations from human error and tampering, breaches of security, fires, earthquakes, severe storms, power losses, telecommunications failures, software defects, intentional acts of vandalism including computer viruses, and similar events. The occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problems at the network operations center, key sites at which we locate routers, switches and other computer equipment that make up the backbone of our service offering and hosted infrastructure, or at one or more of our partners’ data centers, could substantially and adversely impact our business. We cannot ensure that we will not experience failures or shutdowns relating to individual facilities or even catastrophic failure of the entire network or hosted infrastructure. Any damage to, or failure of, our systems or service providers could result in reductions in, or terminations of, services supplied to our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.Our network depends upon telecommunications carriers who could limit or deny us access to their network or fail to perform, which would have a material adverse effect on our business.We rely upon the ability and willingness of certain telecommunications carriers and other corporations to provide us with reliable high-speed telecommunications service through their networks. If these telecommunications carriers and other corporations decide not to continue to provide service to us through their networks on substantially the same terms and conditions (including, without limitation, price, early termination liability, and installation interval), if at all, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, many of our service level objectives are dependent upon satisfactory performance by our telecommunications carriers. If they fail to so perform, it may have a material adverse effect on our business.We operate in a highly competitive market and many of our competitors have greater financial resources and established relationships with major corporate customers.The video communications industry is highly competitive. A number of telecommunications carriers and other corporations, including AT&T, Verizon, British Telecom/BT Conferencing, Level 3 Communications, Cisco and Hewlett-Packard, have entered into the video communications market. Many of these organizations have substantially greater financial and other resources than us, furnish some of the same services provided by us, and have established relationships with major corporate customers that have policies of purchasing directly from them. We believe that as the demand for video communications systems continues to increase, additional competitors, many of which may have greater resources than us, will continue to enter the video communications market.There is limited market awareness of our Glowpoint services.-9-Our future success will be dependent in significant part on our ability to generate demand for our Glowpoint managed video services. To this end, our direct marketing and indirect sales operations must increase market awareness of our service offering to generate increased revenue. Our products and services require a sophisticated sales effort targeted at the senior management of our prospective customers. All new hires will require training and take time to achieve full productivity. We cannot be certain that our new hires will become as productive as necessary or that we will be able to hire enough qualified individuals or retain existing employees in the future. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in our efforts to market and sell our products and services, and if we are not successful in building market awareness and generating increased sales, future results of operations will be adversely affected.As we expand our Glowpoint managed services, any system failures or interruptions may cause loss of customers.Our success depends, in part, on the seamless, uninterrupted operation of our Glowpoint managed service offering. As we continue to expand these services, and as the complexity and volume continue to increase, we will face increasing demands and challenges in managing them. Any prolonged failure of these services or other systems or hardware that cause significant interruptions to our operations could seriously damage our reputation and result in customer attrition and financial loss.Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer.In the ordinary course of providing video communications services, we transmit sensitive and proprietary information of our customers. The secure transmission of this information is critical to our operations. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information being transmitted could be accessed, publicly disclosed or stolen. Any such disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, disrupt our operations and damage our reputation, which could adversely affect our business.We may be unable to adequately respond to rapid changes in technology.The market for our Glowpoint managed video services is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and frequent product introductions. The introduction of products and services embodying new technology and the emergence of new industry standards may render our existing managed video services obsolete and unmarketable if we are unable to adapt to change. A significant factor in our ability to grow and to remain competitive is our ability to successfully introduce new products and services that embody new technology, anticipate and incorporate evolving industry standards and achieve levels of functionality and price acceptable to the market. If our managed video services are unable to meet expectations or unable to keep pace with technological changes in the video communication industry, our managed video services could eventually become obsolete. We may be unable to allocate the funds necessary to upgrade our managed video services as improvements in video communication technologies are introduced. In the event that other companies develop more advanced service offerings, our competitive position relative to such companies would be harmed.We incur significant accounting and other control costs that impact our financial condition.As a publicly traded corporation, we incur certain costs to comply with regulatory requirements. If regulatory requirements were to become more stringent or if controls thought to be effective later fail, we may be forced to make additional expenditures, the amounts of which could be material. Some of our competitors are privately owned so their comparatively lower accounting and control costs can be a competitive disadvantage for us. Should our sales decline or if we are unsuccessful at increasing prices to cover higher expenditures for internal controls and audits, our costs associated with regulatory compliance will rise as a percentage of sales.We rely on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue, and the loss of any one of those customers, or several of our smaller customers, could materially harm our business.A significant portion of our revenue is generated from a limited number of customers. For the year ended December 31, 2012, two major customer / wholesale partners represented approximately 25% of our revenue. Although the composition of our significant customers will vary from period to period, we expect that most of our revenue will continue, for the foreseeable future, to come from a relatively small number of customers. Consequently, our financial results may fluctuate significantly from period-to-period based on the actions of one or more significant customers. A customer may take actions that affect us for reasons that we cannot anticipate or control, such as reasons related to the customer's financial condition, changes in the customer's business strategy or operations, the introduction of alternative competing products, or as the result of the perceived quality or cost-effectiveness of our products. Our agreements with these customers may be canceled if we materially breach the agreement or for -10-other reasons outside of our control such as insolvency or financial hardship that may result in a customer filling for chapter 11 bankruptcy court protection against unsecured creditors. In addition, our customers may seek to renegotiate the terms of current agreements or renewals. The loss of or a reduction in sales or anticipated sales to our most significant or several of our smaller customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We experience material disconnections of our services and may not be able to replace the lost revenue by sales to our current customers or by adding significant new customers.Historically, we have experienced both significant disconnections of services and also reductions in the prices of our services. In order to realize anticipated revenues and cash flows, we endeavor to obtain long-term commitments from new customers, as well as expand our relationships with current customers. This need is made more critical as the company experiences disconnections of services, which may occur if we materially breach the agreement or for other reasons outside of our control such as insolvency or financial hardship that may result in a customer filing for chapter 11 bankruptcy court protection against unsecured creditors. The disconnection of services by our significant customers or by several of our smaller customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Service contract durations and termination liabilities are defined within the terms and conditions of our services to our customers. The average contract term length for our current customers that are under contract is approximately 21 months and changes as we add, remove, or renew contracts with customers. Termination of services in our existing agreements require a minimum of 30 days notice and are subject to early termination penalties equal to the amount of accrued and unpaid charges including the remaining term length multiplied by any fixed monthly fees. The standard form of service agreement with Glowpoint includes an auto-renewal clause for a minimum of 12 months at the end of each term if the customer does not choose to terminate service at that time. Certain customers and partners negotiate master agreements with custom termination liabilities that differ from our standard form of service agreement. Approximately 36% of our current revenues are subject to master agreements with termination rights and liabilities that range from a minimum of 3 to 12 months early termination penalties in the event of early termination prior to contract expiration. Our failure to properly manage the distribution of our services could result in a loss of revenues.We currently sell our services both directly to customers and through channel partners. Successfully managing the interaction of our direct and indirect sales channels to reach various potential customers for our services is a complex process. Each sales channel has distinct risks and costs, and therefore, our failure to implement the most advantageous balance in the sales model for our services could adversely affect our revenue and profitability.If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential stockholders may not be confident in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the price of our common stock.Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to include in our annual report on Form 10-K our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Although we believe that we currently have adequate internal control procedures in place, we cannot be certain that our internal controls over financial reporting will remain effective. If we cannot adequately maintain the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, we may be subject to liability and/or sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results and the market price of our common stock.Risks Relating To Our SecuritiesOur common stock is thinly traded and subject to volatile price fluctuations.Our common stock is thinly traded, and it is therefore susceptible to wide price swings. Our common stock is traded on the NYSE MKT under the symbol “GLOW.” Thinly traded stocks are more susceptible to significant and sudden price changes and the liquidity of our common stock depends upon the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers. We cannot ensure that you will be able to find a buyer for your shares. We cannot ensure that an organized public market for our securities will develop or that there will be any private demand for the common stock. We could also fail to satisfy the standards for continued exchange listing, such as standards having to do with a minimum share price, the minimum number of public shareholders or the aggregate market value of publicly held shares. Any holder of our securities should regard them as a long-term investment and should be prepared to bear the economic risk of an investment in our securities for an indefinite period.Penny stock regulations may impose certain restrictions on the marketability of our securities.-11-The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price (as defined) less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Our common stock is presently subject to these regulations which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell such securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors (generally those with assets in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000, or $300,000 together with their spouse). For transactions covered by these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchase of such securities and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to the purchase. Additionally, for any transaction involving a “penny stock,” unless exempt, the rules require the delivery, prior to the transaction, of a risk disclosure document mandated by the SEC relating to the “penny stock” market. The broker-dealer must also disclose the commission payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and, if the broker-dealer is the sole market maker, the broker-dealer must disclose this fact and the broker-dealer’s presumed control over the market. Finally, monthly statements must be sent disclosing recent price information for the “penny stock” held in the account and information on the limited market in “penny stocks.” Consequently, the “penny stock” rules may restrict the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and may negatively affect the ability of purchasers of our shares of common stock to sell such securities.Future operating results may vary from quarter to quarter, and we may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors at any given time.We have experienced, and may continue to experience, significant quarterly fluctuations in operating results. Factors that cause fluctuation in our results of operations include our services mix, development time line and the rate at which customers accept our services offerings. Accordingly, it is possible that in one or more future quarters our operating results will be adversely affected and fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. If this happens, the trading price of our common stock may decline.Sales of substantial amounts of common stock in the public market could reduce the market price of our common stock and make it more difficult for us and our stockholders to sell our equity securities in the future.Resale into the public market of a significant number of shares issued in prior financings could depress the trading price of our common stock and make it more difficult for our stockholders to sell equity securities in the future. In addition, to the extent other restricted shares become freely available for sale, whether through an effective registration statement or under Rule 144 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), or if we issue additional shares that might be or become freely available for sale, our stock price could decrease.Although the sale of these additional shares to the public might increase the liquidity of our stockholders’ investments, the increase in the number of shares available for public sale could drive the price of our common stock down, thus reducing the value of your investment and perhaps hindering our ability to raise additional funds in the future.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.