Item 1A. Risk Factors. Glowpoint’s business faces numerous risks, including those set forth below or those described elsewhere in this Form 10-K Annual Report or in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The risks described below are not the only risks that we face, nor are they necessarily listed in order of significance. Other risks and uncertainties may also affect our business. Any of these risks may have a material adverse effect on Glowpoint’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Risks Relating To Our Securities We need future capital to refinance our existing obligations and for working capital. If we are able to raise additional capital, it may dilute our existing stockholders or restrict our ability to operate our business. If we are unable to refinance our existing obligations, it would have a material adverse effect on the Company. Our working capital requirements continue to be significant. To date, we have been dependent primarily on the net proceeds of private placements of convertible debt and equity securities. Our 10% Senior Secured Convertible Notes (“10% Notes”) issued in March and April 2006 in aggregate principal amount of $6,180,000, together with additional notes issued to satisfy the quarterly interest payments (“10% Interest Notes”), mature in September 2007. We are currently evaluating options with regard to the 10% Notes and 10% Interest Notes. Options include renegotiating the terms and maturity date and issuing new debt or equity to repay the 10% Notes and 10% Interest Notes. If we are unable to renegotiate the maturity of the 10% Notes and 10% Interest Notes or issue new securities on favorable terms to repay them, it would have a material adverse effect on the Company and we would not have sufficient funds to continue as a going concern. Furthermore, our working capital requirements depend and will continue to depend on numerous factors, including the timing of revenues, the expense involved in development of our products, realizing cost reductions on our technology, and the cost involved in protecting our proprietary rights. Accordingly, assuming we are able to refinance or renegotiate the maturity of the 10% Notes and the 10% Interest Notes, the proceeds from our recent financing and our other existing capital resources may not be sufficient to fund our future operations. We currently have no committed sources of, or other arrangements with respect to, additional financing. If additional working capital is required, it may dilute our existing stockholders or restrict our ability to run our business. Our financial statements are prepared assuming we are a going concern. The accompanying financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from being unable to raise the necessary additional capital, renegotiate or refinance the 10% Notes, and realize projected operational savings. Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared assuming that we will continue as a going concern. Since inception, we have incurred recurring operating losses and negative operating cash flows, including a net loss attributable to common shareholders of $11,137,000 and negative operating cash flows of $4,694,000 for the year ended December 31, 2006. At December 31, 2006 we had cash and cash equivalents of $2,153,000, a working capital deficit of $11,868,000, and an accumulated deficit of $172,623,000. Additionally, the 10% Notes and the 10% Interest Notes mature in September 2007. The foregoing factors, among others, raise substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. In 2006, we implemented a corporate restructuring plan designed to reduce certain operating, sales and marketing and general and administrative costs (see Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements for further information). We raised capital in March and April of 2006, but continue to sustain losses and negative operating cash flows. Assuming we realize all of the savings from our restructured operating activities, assuming we are able to negotiate favorable terms with the authorities regarding our sales and use taxes and regulatory fees (see Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements for further information) and assuming we are able to renegotiate or refinance the 10% Notes and the 10% Interest Notes (see Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements for further information), we believe that our available capital as of December 31, 2006 will enable us to continue as a going concern during 2007. There are no assurances, however, that those assumptions will be realized. The accompanying financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from this uncertainty. The potential adjustments that might result include: 18 · Substantial disposition of assets outside the ordinary course of business; · Externally forced revisions of our operations or similar actions; and · Restructuring of our debt or a reorganization of our business. We have reported weaknesses in our internal controls for financial reporting. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential stockholders may not be confident in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the price of our common stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed. We may be required to issue more shares of common stock upon adjustment of the conversion price of our outstanding Series B convertible preferred stock and the 10% Notes or the exercise price of our outstanding warrants, resulting in dilution of our existing stockholders. The conversion or exercise of some or all of our outstanding preferred stock, 10% Notes, options and warrants will dilute the ownership interests of our stockholders. If we sell common stock or common stock equivalents at a price per share that is below the then-applicable conversion price of our outstanding Series B convertible preferred stock, the 10% Notes and/or below the then-applicable exercise price of certain of our outstanding warrants, then the conversion price or exercise price, as the case may be, of such securities may adjust downward and, as a result, the amount of shares of common stock issuable upon conversion or exercise of such securities would increase. As a result of the foregoing, we may be required to issue more shares of common stock than previously anticipated which would result in the dilution of our existing stockholders. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock in the public market could reduce the market price of our common stock and make it more difficult for us and our stockholders to sell our equity securities in the future. Under the terms of the prior financings, including the Note and Warrant Purchase Agreement in March/April 2006 and the Common Stock Purchase Agreement in February 2004, a substantial number of shares of our common stock must be registered for resale. Resale of a significant number of these shares into the public market, once registered, could depress the trading price of our common stock and make it more difficult for our stockholders to sell equity securities in the future. In addition, to the extent other restricted shares become freely available for sale, whether through an effective registration statement or under Rule 144 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), or if we issue additional shares that might be or become freely available for sale, our stock price could decrease. Although the sale of these additional shares to the public might increase the liquidity of our stockholders’ investments, the increase in the number of shares available for public sale could drive the price of our common stock down, thus reducing the value of your investment and perhaps hindering our ability to raise additional funds in the future. 19 We do not believe the Series B warrants are exercisable. If our position is challenged and we do not prevail, there will be significant dilution. In connection with our March/April 2006 financing, we issued Series B warrants to purchase 6,180,000 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $0.01 per share. The Series B warrants only become exercisable if we fail to achieve positive operating income in the fourth quarter of 2006, excluding certain restructuring and non-cash charges identified in such warrant. While we reported positive operating income, excluding those restructuring and non-cash charges identified on Schedule A to the Series B warrants, as amended, for the fourth quarter of 2006 and do not believe the Series B warrants are exercisable, there can be no assurance that the Series B warrant holders will not challenge our results. In the event of a challenge and an adverse outcome against us, 6,180,000 shares of common stock may be issued for one cent per share and there will be significant dilution. We do not intend to pay any dividends on our common stock. We have not declared and paid any dividends on our common stock and we do not intend to declare and pay any dividends on our common stock. Earnings, if any, will be re-invested in our business. We have dividend payment obligations on our Series B convertible preferred stock which has priority in the payment of the dividends over our common stock. We expect our future operating results to vary from quarter to quarter, and increase the likelihood that we may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors at any given time. We expect our revenues and operating results to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. In addition, the Company will be required to incur interest expense until conversion of the 10% Notes or Series B preferred stock into common stock at the time of, and to the extent of, such conversion. We also expect that our operating results could vary significantly from quarter to quarter based on changes to the estimated fair value of the derivative liabilities related to the Series A warrants, the conversion feature of the 10% Notes and the 2004 Financing. The derivative liabilities are calculated using the Black-Scholes formula and such estimates are revalued at each balance sheet date, with changes in value at some time recorded as other income or other expense. As a result of each of the foregoing, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenues, interest expense and operating results may not be meaningful. In addition, due to our stage of development, we cannot predict our future revenues or results of operations accurately. It is possible that in one or more future quarters our operating results will fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. If this happens, the trading price of our common stock may decline. Our common stock is thinly traded and subject to volatile price fluctuations. Our common stock is thinly traded, and it is therefore susceptible to wide price swings. Our common stock is not traded or authorized for quotation on any exchange or on NASDAQ. However, bid prices for our common stock appear from time to time in the Pink Sheets under the symbol “GLOW.PK.” The Pink Sheets is a quotation service for over-the-counter securities that is maintained by Pink Sheets LLC, a private company. Thinly traded, illiquid stocks are more susceptible to significant and sudden price changes than stocks that are widely followed by the investment community and actively traded on an exchange or NASDAQ. The liquidity of our common stock depends upon the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers. We cannot assure you that you will be able to find a buyer for your shares. Regional broker/dealers facilitate trades of our common stock, matching interested buyers and sellers. In the future, if we successfully list the common stock on a securities exchange or obtain NASDAQ trading authorization, we will not be able to assure you that an organized public market for our securities will develop or that there will be any private demand for the common stock. We could also fail subsequently to satisfy the standards for continued exchange listing or NASDAQ trading, such as standards having to do with a minimum share price, the minimum number of public shareholders or the aggregate market value of publicly held shares. Any holder of our securities should regard them as a long-term investment and should be prepared to bear the economic risk of an investment in our securities for an indefinite period. 20 We may be subject to litigation resulting from common stock volatility and other factors, which may result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources and could have a negative effect on our business and results of operations. The stock market has, from time to time, experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Many factors caused, and may in the future cause, the market price for our common stock to decline, perhaps substantially, including (without limitation) demand for our common stock, technological innovations by competitors or in competing technologies, investor perception of our industry or our prospects, or general technological or economic trends. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been the subject of securities class action litigation. As a result, we may be involved in a securities class action litigation in the future. Such litigation often results in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources and could have a negative effect on our business and results of operation. Penny stock regulations may impose certain restrictions on the marketability of our securities. The Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”) has adopted regulations which generally define “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price (as defined) less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Our common stock is presently subject to these regulations which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell such securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors (generally those with assets in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000, or $300,000 together with their spouse). For transactions covered by these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchase of such securities and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to the purchase. Additionally, for any transaction involving a “penny stock”, unless exempt, the rules require the delivery, prior to the transaction, of a risk disclosure document mandated by the Commission relating to the “penny stock” market. The broker-dealer must also disclose the commission payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and, if the broker-dealer is the sole market maker, the broker-dealer must disclose this fact and the broker-dealer’s presumed control over the market. Finally, monthly statements must be sent disclosing recent price information for the “penny stock” held in the account and information on the limited market in “penny stocks”. Consequently, the “penny stock” rules may restrict the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and may negatively affect the ability of purchasers of our shares of common stock to sell such securities. Risks Related to Our Business Our history of substantial net losses may continue indefinitely and may make it difficult to fund our operations. Glowpoint was formed by the merger of All Communications Corporation and View Tech, Inc. in May 2000. We reported a substantial loss from operations in 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006. We cannot assure you that we will achieve revenue growth or profitability or generate positive cash flow on a quarterly or annual basis in the future, or at all. If we do not become profitable in the future, the value of our common stock may be adversely impacted and we could have difficulty obtaining funds to continue our operations. Our success is highly dependent on the evolution of our overall market. The market for video communication services is evolving rapidly. Although certain industry analysts project significant growth for this market, their projections may not be realized. Our Glowpoint network service utilizes IP (H.323) standards and provide high quality video communications. As a result, our future growth, if any, will depend on a desire for higher quality video communications and the continued trend of businesses to migrate to IP-based standards and away from the older, less reliable Integrated Services Digital Network (“ISDN”) technology. Additionally, our future growth depends on acceptance and adoption of video communications. There can be no assurance that the market for our services will grow, that our services will be adopted, that customers will desire higher quality, or that businesses will use IP-based videoconferencing equipment or our IP subscriber network. If we are unable to react quickly to changes in the market, if the market fails to develop, or develops more slowly than expected, or if our services do not achieve market acceptance, then we are unlikely to become or remain profitable. 21 Our future plans could be adversely affected if we are unable to attract or retain key personnel. We have attracted a highly skilled management team and specialized workforce. Our future success is dependant in part on attracting and retaining qualified management and technical personnel. Our inability to hire qualified personnel on a timely basis, or the departure of key employees, could materially and adversely affect our business development and therefore, our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. We may have difficulty managing our growth. If we successfully increase our sales substantially, we expect to hire more employees and expand our operations. This growth may place a strain on our management, our operations and our systems. Our ability to manage this growth will depend upon our ability to broaden our management team and our ability to attract, hire and retain skilled employees. Our success will also depend on the ability of our officers and key employees to continue to implement and improve our operational, financial and other systems, to manage multiple customer relationships concurrently, and to hire, train and manage our employees. Our future success is dependent upon growth. If we cannot scale our business appropriately or otherwise adapt to this growth, a key part of our strategy may not be successful. Our gross revenue may decline significantly during 2007 due to the planned decline of our ISDN resale business, attributable in part to the cessation of a customer contract. We resell ISDN and other services to Tandberg, from whom we acquired our ISDN resale business in April 2004 (formerly known as “NuVision”). While we resell ISDN services to many customers, in the year ended December 31, 2006, approximately 50% of our resold ISDN revenues, or $1,265,000, were from Tandberg, which is approximately 6.5% of our total gross revenues. Pursuant to the terms of the April 2004 purchase, as amended, Tandberg was contractually obligated to exclusively purchase certain enumerated services from us through January 31, 2007. While Tandberg has informed us that it will continue to purchase services from us after January 31, 2007, Tandberg does intend to transfer its business from Glowpoint, which may occur at any time. Because this revenue is our lowest margin revenue, however, we expect our overall gross margin percentage to increase once we lose this gross revenue. Additionally, we are actively considering whether to sell, transfer or just discontinue our ISDN resale business. If our actual liability for sales and use taxes and regulatory fees is different from our accrued liability, it could have a material impact on our financial condition. Sales and use taxes and regulatory fees are supposed to be, or are routinely, collected from customers and remitted to the applicable authorities in certain circumstances. Historically, we were not properly collecting and remitting all such taxes and regulatory fees and, as a result, have accrued a liability. We used estimates when accruing our sales and use tax and regulatory fee liability, including interest and penalties, and assumed, among other things, various credits we expect to receive from taxing authorities and/or our underlying service providers. All of our tax positions are subject to audit and a number of taxing authorities have already scheduled audits to commence in 2007. While we believe all of our estimates and assumptions are reasonable and will be sustained upon audit, actual liabilities and credits may differ significantly. If so, it may materially impact our financial condition, negatively if we underestimated our liability or positively if we overestimated our liability. Our failure to obtain or maintain the right to use certain intellectual property may negatively affect our business. Our future success and competitive position depends in part upon our ability to obtain or maintain certain proprietary intellectual property to be used in connection with our services. This may be achieved in part by prosecuting claims against others who we believe are infringing on our rights and by defending claims of intellectual property infringement by our competitors. While we are not currently engaged in any intellectual property litigation, we could become subject to lawsuits in which it is alleged that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of others or we could commence lawsuits against others who we believe are infringing upon our rights. Our involvement in intellectual property litigation could result in significant expense to us, adversely affecting the development of sales of the challenged product or intellectual property and diverting the efforts of our technical and management personnel, whether or not such litigation is resolved in our favor. 22 In the event of an adverse outcome as a defendant in any such litigation, we may, among other things, be required to: pay substantial damages; cease the development, use or sale of services that infringe upon other patented intellectual property; expend significant resources to develop or acquire non-infringing intellectual property; discontinue the use or incorporation of infringing technology; or obtain licenses to the infringing intellectual property. We cannot assure you that we would be successful in such development or acquisition or that such licenses would be available upon reasonable terms. Any such development, acquisition or license could require the expenditure of substantial time and other resources and could have a negative effect on our business and financial results. An adverse outcome as plaintiff, in addition to the costs involved, may, among other things, result in the loss of the intellectual property (such as a patent) that was the subject of the lawsuit by a determination of invalidity or unenforceability, significantly increase competition as a result of such determination, and require the payment of penalties resulting from counterclaims by the defendant. We may not be able to protect the rights to our intellectual property Failure to protect our existing intellectual property rights may result in the loss of our exclusivity or the right to use our technologies. If we do not adequately ensure our freedom to use certain technology, we may have to pay others for rights to use their intellectual property, pay damages for infringement or misappropriation and/or be enjoined from using such intellectual property. We rely on patent, trade secret, trademark and copyright law to protect our intellectual property. Some of our intellectual property is not covered by any patent or patent application. As we further develop our services and related intellectual property, we expect to seek additional patent protection. Our patent position is subject to complex factual and legal issues that may give rise to uncertainty as to the validity, scope and enforceability of a particular patent. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that: any of the patents owned by us or other patents that other parties license to us in the future will not be invalidated, circumvented, challenged, rendered unenforceable or licensed to others; any of our pending or future patent applications will be issued with the breadth of claim coverage sought by us, if issued at all; or any patents owned by or licensed to us, although valid, will not be dominated by a patent or patents to others having broader claims. Additionally, effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable, limited or not applied for in certain foreign countries. We also seek to protect our proprietary intellectual property, including intellectual property that may not be patented or patentable, in part by confidentiality agreements. We cannot assure you that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach or that such persons will not assert rights to intellectual property arising out of these relationships. We depend upon our network providers and facilities infrastructure. Our success depends upon our ability to implement, expand and adapt our national network infrastructure and support services to accommodate an increasing amount of video traffic and evolving customer requirements at an acceptable cost. This has required and will continue to require that we enter into agreements with providers of infrastructure capacity, equipment, facilities and support services on an ongoing basis. We cannot assure you that any of these agreements can be obtained on satisfactory terms and conditions. We also anticipate that future expansions and adaptations of our network infrastructure facilities may be necessary in order to respond to growth in the number of customers served. We depend upon suppliers and have limited sources of supply for some services. We rely on other companies to supply some components of our network infrastructure and the means to access our network. Some of the products and services that we resell and certain components that we require for our network are available only from limited sources. We could be adversely affected if such sources were to become unavailable to us on commercially reasonable terms. We cannot assure you that, on an ongoing basis, we will be able to obtain third-party services cost-effectively and on the scale and within the timeframes we require, or at all. Failure to obtain or to continue to make use of such third-party services would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 23 Our network could fail, which could negatively impact our revenues. Our success depends upon our ability to deliver reliable, high-speed access to our partners’ data centers and upon the ability and willingness of our telecommunications providers to deliver reliable, high-speed telecommunications service through their networks. Our network and facilities, and other networks and facilities providing services to us, are vulnerable to damage, unauthorized access, or cessation of operations from human error and tampering, breaches of security, fires, earthquakes, severe storms, power losses, telecommunications failures, software defects, intentional acts of vandalism including computer viruses, and similar events, particularly if the events occur within a high traffic location of the network or at one of our data centers. The occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problems at the network operations center, key sites at which we locate routers, switches and other computer equipment that make up the backbone of our network infrastructure, or at one or more of our partners’ data centers, could substantially and adversely impact our business. We cannot assure you that we will not experience failures or shutdowns relating to individual facilities or even catastrophic failure of the entire network. Any damage to or failure of our systems or service providers could result in reductions in, or terminations of, services supplied to our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our network depends upon telecommunications carriers who could limit or deny us access to their network or fail to perform, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. We rely upon the ability and willingness of certain telecommunications carriers and other corporations to provide us with reliable high-speed telecommunications service through their networks. If these telecommunications carriers and other corporations decide not to continue to provide service to us through their networks on substantially the same terms and conditions (including, without limitation, price, early termination liability, and installation interval), if at all, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and ability to even provide service. Additionally, many of our service level objectives are dependent upon satisfactory performance by our telecommunications carriers. If they fail to so perform, it may have a material adverse effect on our business. We compete in a highly competitive market and many of our competitors have greater financial resources and established relationships with major corporate customers. The video communications industry is highly competitive. A number of telecommunications carriers and other corporations, including AT&T, Verizon Business/MCI, Sprint, Cisco and Hewlett-Packard, have entered into the video communications industry. Many of these organizations have substantially greater financial and other resources than us, furnish some of the same services provided by us, and have established relationships with major corporate customers that have policies of purchasing directly from them. We believe that as the demand for video communications systems continues to increase, additional competitors, many of which may have greater resources than us, will continue to enter the video communications market. Our Glowpoint managed video services have limited market awareness. Our Glowpoint video communications offering was introduced in December 2000 and was only a small part of our operations until the sale of our video solutions business in September 2003. Our future success will be dependent in significant part on our ability to generate demand for our Glowpoint managed video services and professional services. To this end, our direct marketing and indirect sales operations must increase market awareness of our service offering to generate increased revenue. Our products and services require a sophisticated sales effort targeted at the senior management of our prospective customers. All new hires will require training and will take time to achieve full productivity. We cannot be certain that our new hires will become as productive as necessary or that we will be able to hire enough qualified individuals or retain existing employees in the future. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in our efforts to market and sell our products and services, and if we are not successful in building market awareness and generating increased sales, future results of operations will be adversely affected. 24 As we expand our Glowpoint network and its use, any system failures or interruptions in our network may cause loss of customers. Our success depends on the seamless, uninterrupted operation of our Glowpoint network and on the management of traffic volumes and route preferences over our network. As we continue to expand our network to increase both its capacity and reach, and as traffic volume continues to increase, we will face increasing demands and challenges in managing our capacity and traffic management systems. Any prolonged failure of our network or other systems or hardware that causes significant interruptions to our operations could seriously damage our reputation and result in customer attrition and financial loss. We may be unable to adequately respond to rapid changes in technology. The market for our Glowpoint network and related services is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and frequent product introductions. The introduction of products and services embodying new technology and the emergence of new industry standards may render our existing managed video services obsolete and unmarketable if we are unable to adapt to change. A significant factor in our ability to grow and to remain competitive is our ability to successfully introduce new products and services that embody new technology, anticipate and incorporate evolving industry standards and achieve levels of functionality and price acceptable to the market. If our managed video services are unable to meet expectations or unable to keep pace with technological changes in the video communication industry, our managed video services could eventually become obsolete. We may be unable to allocate the funds necessary to upgrade our managed video services as improvements in video communication technologies are introduced. In the event that other companies develop more technologically advanced networks, our competitive position relative to such companies would be harmed. We incur significant accounting and other control costs that impact our financial condition. As a publicly traded corporation, we incur certain costs to comply with regulatory requirements. If regulatory requirements were to become more stringent or if controls thought to be effective later fail, we may be forced to make additional expenditures, the amounts of which could be material. Some of our competitors are privately owned so their accounting and control costs can be a competitive disadvantage for us. Should our sales decline or if we are unsuccessful at increasing prices to cover higher expenditures for internal controls and audits, our costs associated with regulatory compliance will rise as a percentage of sales. Other issues and uncertainties may include: · New accounting pronouncements or changes in accounting policies; and · Legislation or other governmental action that detrimentally impacts our expenses or reduces sales by adversely affecting our customers. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 