Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 1B. Unresolved Staff comments Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6. Selected Financial Data Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9 A. Controls and Procedures Item 9 B. Other Information Part III Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services Part IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules PART 1 Forward-Looking Statements The discussion of certain matters in this report may constitute "forward- looking statements" as defined in section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, and section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which includes statements such as projections, plans, objectives and assumptions about the future, and such forward-looking statements are subject to the safe harbor created by these sections. Although the Corporation and the Bank have based their plans and projections on certain assumptions, there can be no assurances that such assumptions will be correct, or that their plans and projections can be achieved. Actual results, amounts and events may differ significantly from those expected to occur, and many factors, risks and uncertainties might cause such a difference, including economic conditions, changes in interest rates, competition from other financial institutions and other factors discussed in this report. For a discussion of these factors, risks and uncertainties, see Item 1A, "Risk Factors." Northern Empire Bancshares does not undertake, and specifically disclaims, any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or developments. ITEM 1. Business Available Information The Corporation electronically files the following reports with the SEC: Form 10-K (annual report), Form 10-Q (quarterly report), and Form 8-K (current report). The Corporation may also file additional reports and/or forms with the SEC. The SEC maintains an internet website,www.sec.gov., at which all electronic filings can be accessed. Information regarding the Corporation and the Bank may be found at the Bank's website, www.snbank.com. A direct link to Northern Empire Bancshares' reports filed with the SEC is located under "Investor Relations" section on the website. Paper copies of the reports filed with the SEC may also be obtained free of charge by contacting Jane Baker at the Corporation at 3558 Round Barn Blvd., Suite 300, Santa Rosa, California 95403 or by telephone (707) 591-9000. History and General Northern Empire Bancshares (the "Corporation") was incorporated as a California corporation on June 8, 1982 for the purpose of becoming a bank holding company of Sonoma National Bank (the "Bank"). On April 27, 2000, the Corporation made an election to become a financial holding company pursuant to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999. The Corporation's executive offices are located at 3558 Round Barn Blvd., Santa Rosa, California, and its telephone number is (707) 591-9000. The Corporation's sole subsidiary is the Bank and its activities are the commercial banking activities engaged in through the Bank and some lending through loan participations with the Bank. As a financial holding company, the Corporation may in the future invest in subsidiaries which are permissible for a financial holding company, subject to the required approvals of the Federal Reserve Board. However, the Corporation has no present plans to make any such additional investments and there can be no assurance that it will do so in the future. The Bank was organized as a national banking association on March 27, 1984 and commenced operations on January 25, 1985. It currently has eleven banking offices operating in Sonoma, Marin and Contra Costa Counties, California. During 2005, the Bank received approval from the Comptroller of the Currency ("Comptroller") to open its twelfth branch. The Bank has entered into a lease agreement for this new branch, which is to be located inside Safeway in downtown Healdsburg. This branch is scheduled to open during late Spring 2006. As a national bank, the Bank is subject to supervision, regulation and regular examination by the Comptroller. The deposits of the Bank are insured by the Bank Insurance Fund, which is administered by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The Bank is a member of the Federal Reserve System and, as such, is subject to applicable provisions of the Federal Reserve Act and the regulations thereunder. See, "Supervision and Regulation." The Bank engages in the general commercial banking business. It accepts checking and savings deposits, offers money market deposit accounts and certificates of deposit, makes secured and unsecured commercial, construction, other installment and term loans, and offers other customary banking services. The Bank makes commercial loans guaranteed by the Small Business Administration (SBA), which may be sold in the secondary market. The Bank does not offer trust services directly, and does not presently intend to do so, but offers such services, when requested, through its correspondent banks. Within the Loan Department are groups of lenders which specialize in commercial, construction and SBA lending. SBA loans are funded by the Bank and then the Bank may, at its option, sell the portion of the loan guaranteed by the SBA (generally 75% to 85% of the total loan amount, depending on the purpose and term of the loan). When a SBA loan is sold, the Bank retains the unguaranteed portion of that loan and the right to service the loan. Income from loan sales is recorded in non-interest income. The SBA program is subject to budgetary restrictions and other revisions by the government which could have a negative impact on the Bank's profit. See, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and results of Operation, Non-Interest Income." The Bank is designated as a "Preferred Lender" by the SBA. This means that it may fund a loan without credit review and underwriting performed by the SBA. Market Area The Bank's primary market area and source of most of its loan business is Sonoma County, the greater Bay Area in California, and Arizona (mainly in the area surrounding Phoenix). The Bank has expanded its lending territory for construction loans, commercial real estate loans and loans made under the programs of the SBA. The Bank has loan production facilities in Phoenix, Arizona and San Rafael, Sacramento, and Walnut Creek, California. The primary market area for deposit business is Sonoma and Marin Counties. There has been recent expansion into Contra Costa County with the opening of branches in Walnut Creek and Concord during 2005. Competition The banking business in California generally, and specifically in the market area served by the Bank, is highly competitive with respect to both loans and deposits, and is dominated by major banks which have offices operating throughout California. Among the advantages such major banks have over the Bank are their ability to finance wide-ranging advertising campaigns and to allocate their investment assets to regions of highest yield and demand. In addition, many of the major banks operating in the Bank's service area offer specialized services, such as trust and international banking services, which the Bank does not offer directly. By virtue of their greater total capitalization, the major banks also have substantially higher lending limits than the Bank has. The Bank competes for loans and deposits with these major banks, as well as with other independent banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, mortgage companies, insurance companies and other lending institutions. As of June 30, 2005, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation reported that there are approximately 22 banks with operations in Sonoma County, approximately 20 banks with operations in Marin County and approximately 33 banks with operations in Contra Costa County. The entry of independent banks or the expansion of major banks in the Bank's service area may adversely affect the Bank's ability to compete. Savings and loans, credit unions and money market funds have provided significant competition for banks with respect to deposits. Other entities, both governmental and private, seeking to raise capital through the issuance and sale of debt or equity securities, also provide competition for the Bank in the acquisition of deposits. The trend of federal and state legislation has significantly increased competition between banks and other financial institutions for both loans and deposits and is expected to continue to do so in the future. In particular, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act enacted in 1999 authorizes affiliations among banks, insurance companies and securities firms and has increased competition among financial institutions with respect to all types of financial products and services. Changes in technology and the pace of consolidation among financial services providers also contribute to the increasingly competitive environment. The earnings and growth of the Bank are affected not only by local market conditions and general economic conditions, but also by government monetary and fiscal policies. Such policies influence the growth of loans, investments and deposits and also affect interest rates charged on loans and paid on deposits. The nature and impact of future changes in such policies on the business and earnings of the Bank cannot be predicted. As of June 30, 2005, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation reported that there are approximately 123 banking offices and offices of savings and loan associations in the Sonoma County market area and a substantially greater number of such offices in the greater Bay Area, including offices of major chain banks, of smaller independent banks and savings and loan associations. The Bank attempts to compete by offering personalized and specialized services to its customers. In the Sonoma County market area, the Bank's promotional activities emphasize the advantages of doing business with a locally owned, independent institution attuned to the particular needs of the community, and as such, the Bank maintains a 9% market share. As the Bank's entrance into the Marin and Contra Costa counties is relatively recent, the market share in those communities is ..4% and .08%, respectively. When making SBA loans, the Bank experiences strong competition from other SBA lenders throughout California and Arizona. Most of our local SBA competitors also have Preferred Lender status from the SBA, and they are at times, more willing to offer more attractive rates or terms on SBA loans than the Bank can. We expect this trend to continue. SBA lending will continue as a primary focus of the Bank but there can be no assurance that the Bank will continue to increase its SBA loan portfolio or continue to make or sell a significant number of SBA loans. Further information, including certain statistical information, concerning the Bank and the Corporation is provided at "Item 7-Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation". Employees At December 31, 2005 the Bank had 150 full-time and 35 part-time employees. Supervision and Regulation Banks and bank holding companies are subject to extensive supervision and regulation under both federal and state laws and regulations. The primary purpose of these laws and regulations is the protection of depositors, consumers and the federal deposit insurance fund, and not the protection of shareholders. The following description summarizes the regulatory environment and some of the laws to which the Corporation and the Bank are subject. The summary is not intended to be a discussion of all applicable laws and regulations and is qualified in its entirety by reference to specific statutes and regulations. The laws and regulations applicable to banks and bank holding companies are constantly changing and evolving and new laws and regulations are frequently introduced. The banking business is also affected by the policies and interpretations of regulatory authorities. It is not possible to predict the impact of future changes in the regulatory environment on the business and operations of the Corporation and the Bank. The Corporation The Corporation is a bank holding company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 and is subject to supervision by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System ("Board"). As a bank holding company, the Corporation must obtain the approval of the Board before it may acquire all or substantially all of the assets of any bank, or ownership or control of the voting shares of any bank if, after giving effect to such acquisition of shares, the Corporation would own or control more than 5% of the voting shares of such bank. Prior approval of the Board is also required for the merger or consolidation of the Corporation and another bank holding company. Effective April 27, 2000, the Corporation made an election to become a "financial holding company" pursuant to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. See "Financial Services Modernization," below. The Board has the authority to examine the Corporation and the Bank periodically. The Board has a policy for risk-focused supervision of small bank holding companies that do not engage in significant non-banking activities. The focus of examinations under the policy is on whether the Corporation has in place systems to manage the risks it takes on in its business. In analyzing risk, the Board looks at the financial condition of the Corporation and the Bank, management, compliance with laws and regulations, inter-company transactions and any new or contemplated activities. The Corporation and any subsidiary which it may acquire or organize in the future are deemed to be affiliates of the Bank within the meaning set forth in the Federal Reserve Act and are subject to that Act. This means, for example, that there are limitations on loans by the Bank to affiliates, on investments by the Bank in any affiliate's stock and on the Bank's taking any affiliate's stock as collateral for loans to any borrower. All affiliate transactions must satisfy certain limitations and otherwise be on terms and conditions that are consistent with safe and sound banking practices. In this regard, the Bank generally may not purchase from any affiliate a low-quality asset (as that term is defined in the Federal Reserve Act). Also, transactions by the Bank with an affiliate must be on substantially the same terms as would be available for non-affiliates. The Corporation and the Bank are prohibited from engaging in certain tie- in arrangements in connection with the extension of credit. For example, the Bank generally may not extend credit on the condition that the customer obtain some additional service from the Bank or the Corporation, or refrain from obtaining such service from a competitor. The Corporation's common shares are registered under Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Corporation files annual, quarterly and current reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and it is subject to other requirements of the Exchange Act and the Securities and Exchange Commission regulations thereunder. (a) Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. President Bush signed the Sarbanes- Oxley Act of 2002 into law on July 30, 2002. This new legislation establishes a comprehensive framework that affects the corporate governance and reporting requirements of companies that file reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission and provides accounting oversight of the accounting firms that audit them. Among other things, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act: limits the scope of consulting services that auditors can offer their reporting company audit clients; imposes a range of new criminal penalties for fraud and other wrongful acts and extends the period during which certain types of lawsuits can be brought against a company or its insiders; expands certain disclosure requirements for reporting companies and requires the maintenance of internal controls and procedures and disclosures regarding those controls and procedures; requires officer certifications of a reporting company's financial statements in quarterly, annual and other reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission; and creates an accounting oversight board that is empowered to set auditing quality control and ethics standards. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires the Securities and Exchange Commission to adopt regulations to implement certain of its requirements. Numerous regulations have been adopted to date and others are expected to be adopted in the future. (b) USA Patriot Act of 2001. The USA Patriot Act of 2001 contains new anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws, in addition to the laws and regulations theretofore in effect. The USA Patriot Act requires, among other things, certain additional due diligence and record keeping practices for financial institutions that administer or maintain private bank accounts for non-U.S. persons and imposes standards for verifying customer identification at account opening. The statutory requirements are implemented by regulations issued by the U.S. Department of the Treasury. (c) Financial Services Modernization. Major financial services modernization legislation was enacted in 1999, known as the Gramm-Leach- Bliley Act ("1999 Act"). This legislation removed barriers that theretofore separated banks, securities firms and other types of financial institutions. The 1999 Act established a new type of holding company, a "financial holding company," that may engage in "financial activities" not permitted to bank holding companies and that have the authority to affiliate with companies engaged in such activities. "Financial activities" are to be determined by the Board in coordination with the Secretary of the Treasury, and may include activities that are financial in nature, incidental to an activity that is financial in nature, or complimentary to a financial activity and that do not pose a safety and soundness risk. The 1999 Act enumerates activities considered financial in nature (in addition to those already permitted to bank holding companies), including underwriting insurance or annuities, or acting as an insurance or annuity principal, agent or broker; providing investment or financial advice; underwriting, dealing in or making markets in securities; and merchant banking (subject to certain limitations). A holding company may elect to be treated as a financial holding company, and engage in these activities, provided that its subsidiary depository institutions are well-capitalized, well-managed and have received at least a satisfactory rating in the last Community Reinvestment Act examination. National banks may also engage in many of these activities through a new structure, the "financial subsidiary," subject to substantially the same capital, management and CRA requirements, and state-chartered banks are given similar authority. The Act also provides for functional regulation of financial services firms, which means that securities activities are to be regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, insurance activities by state insurance regulators, and banking activities by the appropriate bank regulatory agencies. The 1999 Act has resulted or is expected to result in new or revised regulations for such matters as (1) newly authorized activities for bank holding companies and financial holding companies, (2) financial privacy, (3) customer protections for bank insurance sales, (4) the Community Reinvestment Act, (5) overseas activities of bank holding companies, (6) bank derivatives transactions and intra-day credit, (7) activities allowed in national bank operating subsidiaries, and (8) broker-dealer registration requirements for bank sales of new hybrid products. (d) Dividends Payable by the Corporation Holders of Common Stock of the Corporation are entitled to receive dividends as and when declared by the Board of Directors out of funds legally available therefore under the laws of the State of California. Under California law, the Corporation is prohibited from paying dividends unless: (a) the amount of its retained earnings immediately prior to the dividend payment equals or exceeds the amount of the dividend; or (b) immediately after giving effect to the dividend (i) the sum of its assets would be at least equal to 125 percent of its liabilities and (ii) its current assets would be at least equal to its current liabilities, or, if the average of its earnings before taxes on income and before interest expense for the two preceding fiscal years was less than the average of its interest expense for the two preceding fiscal years, at least equal to 125 percent of its current liabilities. The Board of Governors has advised bank holding companies that it believes that payment of cash dividends in excess of current earnings from operations is inappropriate and may be cause for supervisory action. As a result of this policy, banks and their holding companies may find it difficult to pay dividends out of retained earnings from historical periods prior to the most recent fiscal year or to take advantage of earnings generated by extraordinary items such as sales of buildings or other large assets in order to generate profits to enable payment of future dividends. Further, the Board of Governors' position that holding companies are expected to provide a source of managerial and financial strength to their subsidiary banks potentially restricts a bank holding company's ability to pay dividends. The Corporation's ability to pay dividends on its Common Stock is subject to the rights of senior security holders and lenders, which will include the holders of preferred stock in the future if preferred stock is issued. Dividend payments will also be dependent upon its separate liquidity needs. See Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition." In that regard, Federal and state statutes, regulations and policies impose restrictions on the payment of management fees and cash dividends by the Bank to the Corporation. The Bank As a national banking association, the Bank is subject to the National Bank Act and to supervision, regulation and regular examination by the Comptroller of the Currency ("Comptroller"). It is also a member of the Federal Reserve System and, as such, is subject to applicable provisions of the Federal Reserve Act and regulations issued pursuant thereto. The deposits of the Bank are insured up to the maximum legal limits by the Bank Insurance Fund ("BIF"), which is managed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC"), and the Bank is therefore subject to applicable provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act and regulations of the FDIC. The Bank is also subject to applicable provisions of California law, insofar as they do not conflict with or are not pre-empted by Federal law. The statutes and regulations administered by these agencies govern most aspects of the Bank's business, including required reserves against deposits, loans, investments, dividends, deposit insurance premiums mergers and acquisitions, the establishment of new branches and other banking facilities, disclosure obligations to depositors and borrower and customer privacy. (a) Supervision and Examinations. Federal law mandates frequent examinations of all banks, with the costs of examinations to be assessed against the bank being examined. In the case of the Bank, its primary regulator is the Comptroller. The Comptroller has a community bank risk-assessment system, which consists of examination procedures that focus on the various types of risks that national banks face. The Comptroller measures each individual bank's exposure to certain risks, assesses the controls the bank has adopted in response to the risks it faces and the measures it takes to monitor those risks. The Comptroller evaluates nine categories of risk: credit, interest rate, liquidity, price, foreign exchange, transaction, compliance, strategic and reputation. These nine risks are measured and the direction of the risk is also analyzed. The FDIC has "back up" enforcement power over the Bank under Federal law. The FDIC is authorized to conduct examinations of insured institutions that represent a heightened risk to the deposit insurance funds when the FDIC determines that such an examination is necessary. By agreement with other federal regulatory agencies, the FDIC is also given access to supervisory information held by the federal agencies and the right to participate in examinations. The Federal banking regulatory agencies have substantial enforcement powers over the depository institutions that they regulate. Civil and criminal penalties may be imposed on such institutions and persons associated with those institutions for violations of any law or regulation. The amount of the penalty depends on whether the violation is part of a pattern or causes a loss to the financial institution. Enforcement powers also include the power to enjoin "unsafe or unsound practices," the issuance of a cease-and-desist order that can be judicially enforced, the issuance of directives to increase capital and the issuance of formal and informal agreements. (b) Prompt Corrective Action. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 ("FDICIA") requires the banking agencies to take corrective action against certain financial institutions, based upon the financial institutions' compliance with the various capital measurements. The capital requirements and the definitions of the various measures of capital are described below under the heading "Capital Regulations and Dividends." The following chart sets forth the various categories of capital compliance. In order to be considered in the well or adequately capitalized categories, a financial institution must meet all the requirements for that category. An institution will be considered undercapitalized or significantly or critically undercapitalized if it meets any of the requirements for that category. Ratio Category Total Risk-Based Tier 1 Risk-Based Leverage Well Capitalized* 10% or above 6% or above 5% or above Adequately Capitalized 8% or above 4% or above 4% or above** Undercapitalized Less than 8% Less than 4% Less than 4% Significantly Undercapitalized Less than 6% Less than 3% Less than 3% Critically Undercapitalized - - 2% or less * In addition, the institution must not be subject to any written capital order or directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level. ** 3% instead of 4% if the institution has the highest rating under the CAMEL rating system. FDICIA also permits the banking agencies essentially to downgrade an institution to the next lower category (but not into the category of critically undercapitalized) if it determines that the institution is in an unsafe or unsound condition, or is engaging in an unsafe or unsound practice. An institution that has received a less-than-satisfactory rating in its most recent examination report for assets, management, earnings or liquidity may be deemed to be engaged in an unsafe and unsound practice. Except for a finding based on a less-than-satisfactory rating, the institution is entitled to prior written notice and an opportunity to respond to its regulator's finding that it is in an unsafe or unsound condition or is engaging in such practices. Based on its capital position at December 31, 2005, the Bank is considered well capitalized. As noted above, an undercapitalized financial institution is subject to certain corrective action by the appropriate agency, depending on the category it falls into. All undercapitalized institutions are required to submit a capital plan within 45 days after the institution becomes undercapitalized. Also, such an institution's asset growth is restricted and it must obtain the prior approval of its federal regulator before it acquires any company, sets up any new branch or engages in any new line of business. The banking agency is required to monitor closely the condition of the bank and its compliance with its plan, and to review periodically the plan and the supervisory restrictions on the bank to assure they are appropriate. In addition, the regulator is authorized by statute to take the certain corrective actions and order certain limitations on the bank's activities if necessary to carry out the purposes of the statute. If an institution is categorized as being significantly undercapitalized, or is undercapitalized and fails to submit a capital plan, its banking regulator is required to take increasingly severe enforcement actions against such institution. The regulator must require recapitalization through a sale of stock or a merger, restrict affiliate transactions and restrict the interest rates the bank may offer on deposits, (unless it finds that doing so would not further the purpose of the section). In addition, such an institution may not pay a bonus to a senior executive officer or increase the pay of any executive officer without the prior written approval of its federal regulator. An institution that is critically undercapitalized is subject to mandatory restrictions that are even more severe, and seizure within time limits designated by statute. In general, the federal regulator is required to seize an institution within 90 days of its becoming critically undercapitalized, unless the regulator can document that another course of action will better achieve the purposes of this section. The FDIC is required to restrict the activities of a critically undercapitalized institution, beyond the degree of limitations specified above for institutions that are significantly undercapitalized. (c) Brokered Deposits. FDICIA places limits on brokered deposits and extends the limits to any bank that is not "well capitalized" or is notified that it is in "troubled condition." Previously, the limitations applied only to troubled banks. A well capitalized institution (which generally includes an institution that is considered well capitalized for purposes of the prompt corrective action regulations discussed above) may still accept brokered deposits without restriction, unless it has been informed by its appropriate Federal regulatory agency that it is in "troubled condition." All other insured depository institutions are prohibited from accepting brokered deposits unless a waiver is obtained from the FDIC. If a waiver is obtained, the interest paid on such deposits may not exceed the rate paid for deposits in its normal market area, or the national rate as determined in the FDIC's regulation. If a depository institution solicits deposits by offering interest rates significantly higher than rates being offered in its market area, it is deemed under FDICIA to be a deposit broker. Therefore, depending on its capital category, it may be prohibited from such practice, or need a prior waiver from the FDIC in order to offer such rates. The FDIC's regulations specify that an institution that is not well capitalized may offer rates that exceed the prevailing effective rates offered in the normal market area only if the institution obtains a waiver, but the institution may not offer rates more than 75 basis points above such prevailing rates. The Bank is at this time considered well capitalized and not in a "troubled condition," and it is not, therefore, subject to the brokered deposit limitations. (d) Risk-Based Deposit Insurance Assessments. In addition, FDICIA requires the FDIC to develop and implement a system to account for risks attributable to different categories and concentrations of assets and liabilities in assessing deposit insurance premiums. Under this system, each bank's deposit insurance premium assessment is calculated based on a risk-based assessment program and the FDIC may increase or decrease the assessment rate schedule on a semi-annual basis. Capital Regulations and Dividends The Board requires member banks and bank holding companies to maintain adequate capital and has adopted capital leverage guidelines for evaluating the capital adequacy of bank holding companies. The Comptroller has also adopted a similar minimum leverage regulation, requiring national banks to maintain at least a minimum capital to asset ratio. The Board's guidelines and the Comptroller's regulations require the banks and bank holding companies subject to them to achieve and maintain a Tier 1 capital to total asset ratio of at least three percent (3.0%) to five percent (5.0%), depending on the condition and rate of growth of the bank or holding company. Tier 1 or core capital is defined to consist primarily of common equity, retained earnings, and certain qualified perpetual preferred stock. These minimum leverage ratio requirements limit the ability of the banking industry, including the Corporation and the Bank, to leverage assets. The Federal Reserve Board also uses risk-based capital guidelines to evaluate the capital adequacy of member banks and bank holding companies. Under these guidelines, assets are categorized according to risk and the various categories are assigned risk weightings. Assets considered to present less risk than others require allocation of less capital. In addition, off-balance sheet and contingent liabilities and commitments must be categorized and included as assets for this purpose. Under these guidelines, the Corporation is required to maintain total capital of at least 8.00% of risk-adjusted assets, and half of that minimum total capital must consist of Tier 1 capital as defined above. The Comptroller has also adopted risk-based capital guidelines applicable to national banks, such as the Bank, that are similar to the Federal Reserve's risk-based capital guidelines. At this time, the Bank is required to maintain total capital of at least 8.00% of risk-adjusted assets. The capital totals of the Corporation and the Bank, as of December 31, 2005, exceeded the amounts of capital required under the regulatory guidelines to be well capitalized as shown in Footnote 13 to the Financial Statements, entitled Regulatory Capital Requirements, Item 8. Under the risk-based capital rules, when the agencies assess the capital adequacy of a bank, they must take into account the effect on that bank's capital that would occur if interest rates moved up or down. The purpose of this requirement is to ensure that banks with high levels of interest rate risk have enough capital to cover the loss exposure. The risk-based guidelines and the leverage ratio do not have a significant effect on the Corporation and the Bank at this time because both the Corporation and the Bank meet their respective required ratios. The effect the requirements may have in the future is uncertain. The risk- based capital guidelines may affect the allocation of the Bank's assets between various types of loans and investments. If the Bank continues to grow with its present asset composition, it may be required to raise additional capital. The required capital ratios have increased in significance under FDICIA, as described above. The ratios now affect a bank's ability to utilize brokered deposits and its deposit insurance premium rates, and they can result in regulatory enforcement action. See, above, "The Bank." As required by FDICIA, the Federal banking agencies now take credit risk concentrations and an individual institution's ability to manage such concentrations into account when they assess a bank's capital adequacy. Non-traditional investments and activities, such as the use of derivatives, are also taken into account in assessing capital requirements. The agencies can adjust the standards for risk-based capital on a case by case basis to take such risks into account, but there is no formula that a bank can use prior to evaluation by the agency to determine how credit concentration or nontraditional activities will affect its capital requirements. Regulatory restrictions and other information guidelines with respect to the payment of dividends by the Bank are contained in Item 5, "Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters.", below. Impact of Monetary Policies Banking is a business in which profitability depends on rate differentials. In general, the difference between the interest rate received by the Bank on loans extended to its customers and securities held in the Bank's investment portfolio and the interest rate paid by the Bank on its deposits and its other borrowings comprise the major portion of the Bank's earnings. To the extent that the Bank is not able to compensate for increases in the cost of deposits and other borrowings with greater income from loans, securities and fees, the net earnings of the Bank will be reduced. The interest rates paid and received by the Bank are highly sensitive to many factors which are beyond the control of the Bank, including the influence of domestic and foreign economic conditions. The earnings and growth of the Bank are also affected by the monetary and fiscal policy of the United States government and its agencies, particularly the Board. These agencies can and do implement national monetary policy, which is used in part to curb inflation and combat recession. Among the instruments of monetary policy used by these agencies are open market transactions in United States Government securities, changes in the discount rates of member bank borrowings and changes in reserve requirements. The actions of the Board have had a significant effect on lending by banks, investments and deposits, and such actions are expected to continue to have a substantial effect in the future. However, the nature and timing of any further changes in such polices and their impact on the Bank cannot be predicted. Public Interest Laws, Consumer and Lending Laws In addition to the other laws and regulations discussed herein, the Bank is subject to numerous consumer and public interest laws and regulations that are designed to protect customers in transactions with banks. While the list set forth below is not exhaustive, these laws and regulations include the Community Reinvestment Act, Truth in Lending Act, the Truth in Savings Act, the Electronic Funds Transfer Act, the Expedited Funds Availability Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, the Bank Secrecy Act, the Right to Financial Privacy Act and the Americans with Disabilities Act. These laws and regulations mandate certain disclosure requirements and regulate the manner in which financial institutions must deal with customers when taking deposits, making loans, collecting loans and providing other services. The Bank must comply with the applicable provisions of these laws and regulations as part of its ongoing customer relations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations can subject the Bank to various penalties, including but not limited to enforcement actions, injunctions, fines or criminal penalties, punitive damages to consumers and the loss of certain contractual rights. Environmental Regulation Federal, state and local regulations regarding the discharge of materials into the environment may have an impact on the Corporation and the Bank. Under Federal law, liability for environmental damage and the cost of cleanup may be imposed upon any person or entity who is an owner or operator of contaminated property. State law provisions, which were modeled after Federal law, impose substantially similar requirements. Both Federal and state laws were amended in 1996 to provide generally that a lender who is not actively involved in operating the contaminated property will not be liable to clean up the property, even if the lender has a security interest in the property or becomes an owner of the property through foreclosure. The Economic Growth and Regulatory Paperwork Reduction Act of 1996 (the "Economic Growth Act"), discussed in more detail below, includes protection for lenders from liability under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 ("CERCLA"). The Economic Growth Act adds a new section to CERCLA to specify the actions a lender may take with respect to lending and foreclosure activities without incurring environmental clean-up liability or responsibility. Typical contractual provisions regarding environmental issues in the loan documentation and due diligence inspections will not lead to lender liability for clean-up, and a lender may foreclose on contaminated property, so long as it merely maintains the property and moves to divest it at the earliest possible time. Under California law, a lender generally will not be liable to the State Attorney General for the cost associated with cleaning up contaminated property unless the lender realized some benefit from the property, failed to divest the property promptly, caused or contributed to the release of the hazardous materials or made the loan primarily for investment purposes. The extent of the protection provided by both the Federal and state lender protection statutes will depend on their interpretation by the administrative agencies and courts, and the Corporation cannot predict whether it will be adequately protected for the types of loans made by the Bank. In addition, the Corporation and the Bank are still subject to the risks that a borrower's financial position will be impaired by liability under the environmental laws and that property securing a loan made by the Bank may be environmentally impaired and not provide adequate security for the Bank. California law provides some protection against the second risk, by establishing certain additional, alternative remedies for a lender in the situation where the property securing a loan is later found to be environmentally impaired. Primarily, the law permits the lender in such a case to pursue remedies against the borrower other than foreclosure under the deed of trust. The Bank attempts to protect its position against the remaining environmental risks by performing prudent due diligence. Environmental questionnaires and information on use of toxic substances are requested as part of its underwriting procedures. The Bank lends based upon its evaluation of the collateral, net worth of the borrower and the borrower's capacity for unforeseen business interruptions or risks. New and Pending Legislation Certain legislative and regulatory proposals that could affect the Corporation, the Bank and the banking business in general are pending or have been introduced, before the United States Congress, the California State Legislature, and Federal, state and local government agencies. Such legislative and regulatory proposals include proposals regarding expansion of consumer protection, privacy and disclosure requirements, increases in the premiums for deposit insurance, restructuring of the bank regulatory agencies, and expansion of the powers of other financial institutions that compete with banks, among others. It is not known to what extent, if any, these proposals will be enacted or remain in force or what effect such legislation would have on the structure, regulation and competitive relationship of financial institutions. It is likely, however, that many of these proposals would subject the Corporation and the Bank to increased regulation, disclosure and reporting requirements and would increase competition to the Bank and its cost of doing business. In addition to pending legislative changes, the various banking regulatory agencies frequently propose rules and regulations to implement and enforce already existing legislation. It cannot be predicted whether or in what form any such legislation or regulations will be enacted or the effect that such legislation or regulations may have on the Bank's business. It is likely, however, that many of these proposals would subject the Corporation and the Bank to increased regulation, disclosure and reporting requirements and would increase competition to the Bank and its cost of doing business. ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Many factors, risks and uncertainties could cause the actual results, amounts or events to differ materially from those the Corporation and the Bank expect to achieve or occur, and investors should carefully consider these as well as all of the other information in this Report in making an investment decision. If any of the factors, risks, and uncertainties, described below, were to occur, the financial condition of the Company and the Bank could be materially and adversely affected, impacting the value of the Company's shares. There may also be additional risks and uncertainties which could adversely affect the Company and the Bank. Changes in economic conditions and decline in the value of real estate collateral. At December 31, 2005, $1.1 billion, or 97.9% of the Bank's loans, including real estate loans and a majority of the Bank's SBA loans, were secured by real estate as the principal source of collateral. A worsening of economic conditions, a decline in real estate values and/or rising interest rates would have an adverse effect on the value of real estate securing these loans and would have an adverse effect on the financial condition of the Bank. The banking authorities have recently proposed a Guidance, entitled Concentrations in Commercial Real Estate Lending, Sound Risk Management Practices, which will apply, if adopted, to institutions, like the Bank which have a high concentration of real estate and related loans in their portfolio. The proposed Guidance provides that such institutions may be required in the future to maintain higher capital ratios than other institutions with lower such concentrations. If the proposed Guidance is adopted, the Bank will be subject to increased regulatory oversight and guidance. While the Company and the Bank are well capitalized under current policies of the banking authorities, they could become subject to higher capital requirements under the proposed Guidance. Changes in Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) borrowing policies. The Bank relies upon the FHLB for a large portion of the funding which is collateralized by loan assets. Based upon the current policies of the FHLB we believe the advances are renewable. Changes in the requirements of the FHLB could materially affect the Bank's business and financial statements, and changes in the rates or duration of advances could make them less advantageous to the Bank. Changes in the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) program. The Bank makes a significant portion of its commercial loans through the U.S. Small Business Administration program, which guarantees a portion of such loans, and the Bank generates income through the sale of such loans. Changes in the Small Business Administration program could have an adverse effect on the Bank's business and specifically on its ability to generate income through the sale of SBA loans. Changes in the market interest rates and volatility of rate sensitive loans and deposits. Changes in interest rates impact the demand for new loans, loan prepayment speeds, the rates received on loans and securities and the rates paid on deposits and borrowings. Significant fluctuations in interest rates may have an adverse effect on the business, financial condition and results of operations of the Corporation and the Bank. Competitive pressures in the banking industry. The banking business is highly competitive, and competition among financial institutions for all types of financial products and services is expected to increase. The ability of the Bank to compete in the future will depend on the nature and level of future competition. Declines in the national or regional economy. A worsening of economic conditions could reduce the demand for loans, cause credit quality deterioration and/or result in a decline in the value of real estate collateral securing a substantial portion of the Bank's loans. Any of these factors could have an adverse impact on the Bank's financial condition. Changes in accounting standards by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) or other standard- setting bodies. Such changes could affect the manner in which the Corporation and the Bank are required to account for and report income, expenses, reserves, or a merger or acquisition, if any and could materially affect the Corporation's business and financial statements. Changes in the legislative and regulatory environment. Banks and bank holding companies are subject to extensive supervision and regulation. The banking business is also affected by the monetary and fiscal policies of the United States government and the Federal Reserve Board. The future regulatory environment may significantly affect the Bank's business. Operational risks including data processing system failures or fraud. Uncertainty regarding the economic outlook resulting from the continuing war on terrorism and foreign hostilities, as well as actions taken or to be taken by the U.S. or other governments as a result of further acts or threats of terrorism. Investors are cautioned to consider these and other risks and uncertainties. ITEM 1B Unresolved Staff Comments None. 