Item 1A. Risk FactorsInvestors should carefully consider the risks set forth below and all other information contained in this report and other documents we file with the SEC. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we have identified as material, but are not the only risks and uncertainties facing us. Our business is also subject to general risk and uncertainties that affect many other companies, such as market conditions, geopolitical events, changes in laws or accounting rules, fluctuations in interest rates, terrorism, wars or conflicts, major health concerns, natural disasters or other disruptions of expected economic or business conditions. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business, including our results of operations, liquidity and financial conditions.Business RisksFailure to successfully implement our strategy in the Healthcare sector, or if successfully implemented, failure to realize the benefits expected from the strategy, may adversely affect our business, sales, results of operations, cash flow and liquidity.In December 2012, Brady acquired Precision Dynamics Corporation (“PDC”) to establish a base for our healthcare strategy. In fiscal 2014, PDC represented 12.5% of our total sales from continuing operations. Sales declined approximately 2% at PDC in fiscal 2014 and the healthcare industry continues to be in a state of change with the uncertainty relating to government healthcare reforms. During fiscal 2014, we recorded impairment charges of $148.6 million, primarily related to the goodwill and other intangible assets in the PeopleID reporting unit, which consists primarily of the PDC business. The Company’s strategy to grow this business includes: key account focus offering customers a broad range of products to meet their complete identification needs, development and launch of proprietary new products, full continuum of care in the healthcare industry, and international sales penetration. There is a risk that the Company will not be able to return the business to growth and grow the business consistently, the strategy will fail, or the business will face increased levels of competition and pricing pressure. If these risks materialize, their effects could adversely impact our business, sales, results of operations, cash flow and liquidity. Failure to successfully implement our Workplace Safety strategy, or if successfully implemented, failure to realize the benefits expected from the strategy, may adversely affect our business, sales, results of operations, cash flow and liquidity.In fiscal 2014, the Workplace Safety segment represented 32.6% of our total sales from continuing operations. Beginning in the second quarter of fiscal 2012, the WPS segment experienced deterioration in sales and profits due to a reduction in direct catalog mailings, increased e-commerce competition, and pricing adjustments. While traditional direct marketing channels such as catalogs are important means of selling WPS products, an increasing number of customers are purchasing products on the Internet. The Company's strategy to grow this business includes: increased volume of catalog mailings, expanded e-commerce presence, further developed pricing capabilities, growing the customer base, and the expansion of products offered. The rate of sales decline in fiscal 2014 lessened each quarter and the segment returned to positive organic growth of 0.9% in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014 as the strategy began to take hold. There is a risk that the Company will not continue to successfully implement this strategy, or if successfully implemented, not realize its expected benefits, due to the continued levels of increased competition and pricing pressure brought about by the Internet. There is also a risk that the Company may not be able to permanently reverse the downward trends in this business and return the segment to historic levels of sales and profits. If these risks materialize, their effects could adversely impact our business, sales, results of operations, cash flow and liquidity. Failure to compete effectively or remain competitive may have a negative impact on our business, sales, results of operations, cash flow and liquidity.We actively compete with companies that produce and market the same or similar products, and in some instances, with companies that sell different products that are designed for the same end user. Additionally, we continue to face competition through the Internet in our entire business. Competition may force us to reduce prices or incur additional costs to remain competitive. We compete on the basis of price, customer support, product innovation, product offering, product quality, expertise, production capabilities, and for multinational customers, our global footprint. Present or future competitors may develop and introduce new and enhanced products, offer products based on alternative technologies and processes, accept lower profit, have greater financial, technical or other resources, or lower production costs or other pricing advantages. Any of these could put us at a disadvantage by threatening our share of sales or reducing our profit margins, which could adversely impact our results of operations, cash flow and liquidity. Additionally, throughout our global business, distributors and customers may seek lower cost sourcing opportunities, which could result in a loss of business that may adversely impact our business, sales, results of operations, cash flow and liquidity. Failure to successfully complete our facility consolidation plans may adversely impact our business, sales, results of operations, cash flow and liquidity.We continue to implement measures to reduce our cost structure, simplify our business structure, and standardize our processes. In fiscal 2013, we incurred approximately $26 million in restructuring costs associated with the reorganization of the 7Table of ContentsCompany along global product lines, which included the standardization of business systems and a restructuring of the global workforce. At the end of fiscal 2013 and into fiscal 2014, our focus turned to the consolidation of facilities, which resulted in approximately $15 million of restructuring expense in fiscal 2014. Facility consolidation activities will extend into fiscal 2015 as we slowed certain consolidation activities to ensure the highest levels of quality and delivery throughout the transition. Successfully completing the facilities consolidations is critical to our future competitiveness and to improve profitability. Facility consolidations will result in a higher concentration of operations in certain locations. Risks related to facility consolidations include poor execution impacting customer service, customer acceptance of these changes, inability to implement standard processes and systems, resource allocation among competing priorities, employee disruption and turnover, inability to manufacture and supply products in the event of a material casualty event at one of our principal facilities, and additional or higher than anticipated charges related to these actions. These actions to reduce our cost structure and the charges related to these actions could have a material adverse impact on our business, sales, results of operations, cash flow and liquidity.Deterioration of or instability in the global economy and financial markets may adversely affect our business, sales, results of operations, cash flow and liquidity. Our business and operating results could be affected by global economic conditions. In fiscal 2013, our business was negatively impacted by the weak economy in Europe, Australia and Brazil. In fiscal 2014, Brazil continued to weaken. When global economic conditions deteriorate or economic uncertainty continues, customers and potential customers may experience deterioration of their businesses, which may result in the delay or cancellation of plans to purchase our products. Our sensitivity to economic cycles and any related fluctuations in the businesses of our customers or potential customers could have a material adverse impact on our business, sales, results of operations, cash flow and liquidity.Our failure or the failure of third-party service providers to protect our sites, networks and systems against security breaches, or otherwise to protect our confidential information, may substantially harm our business, sales, results of operations, cash flow and liquidity. Our business systems collect, maintain, transmit and store data about our customers, vendors and others, including credit card information and personally identifiable information, as well as other confidential and proprietary information. We also employ third-party service providers that store, process and transmit proprietary, personal and confidential information on our behalf. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties in an effort to securely transmit confidential and sensitive information, including credit card numbers. Our security measures, and those of our third-party service providers, may not detect or prevent all attempts to hack our systems, denial-of-service attacks, viruses, malicious software, break-ins, phishing attacks, social engineering, security breaches or other attacks and similar disruptions that may jeopardize the security of information stored in or transmitted by our sites, networks and systems or that we or our third-party service providers otherwise maintain. We and our service providers may not have the resources or technical sophistication to anticipate or prevent all types of attacks, and techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to or sabotage systems change frequently and may not be known until launched against us or our third-party service providers. In addition, security breaches can also occur as a result of non-technical issues, including intentional or inadvertent breaches by our employees or by persons with whom we have commercial relationships. Although we maintain privacy, data breach and network security liability insurance, we cannot be certain that our coverage will be adequate for liabilities actually incurred or that insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all. Any compromise or breach of our security measures, or those of our third-party service providers, could adversely impact our ability to conduct business, violate applicable privacy, data security and other laws, and cause significant legal and financial exposure, adverse publicity, and a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could have an adverse and material effect on our business, sales, results of operations, cash flow and liquidity.The global nature of our business exposes us to foreign currency fluctuations that could adversely affect sales, results of operations, cash flow, and liquidity.Approximately 50% of our sales are derived outside the United States. Sales and purchases in currencies other than the U.S. dollar expose us to fluctuations in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar, and may adversely affect our financial statements. Increased strength of the U.S. dollar will increase the effective price of our products sold in currencies other than U.S. dollars into other countries. Decreased strength of the U.S. dollar could adversely affect the cost of materials, products, and services purchased overseas. Our sales and expenses are translated into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes, and the strengthening or weakening of the U.S. dollar could result in unfavorable translation effects. In addition, certain of our subsidiaries may invoice customers in a currency other than its functional currency, which could result in unfavorable translation effects on sales, results of operations, cash flow and liquidity.8Table of ContentsFailure to develop new products or gain acceptance of new products could adversely impact our sales, results of operations, cash flow and liquidity.Development of proprietary products is a driver of core growth and reasonable gross profit margins both currently and in the future, particularly within our ID Solutions segment. Therefore, we must continue to develop new and innovative products, as well as acquire and retain the necessary intellectual property rights in these products. We continue to invest in the development and marketing of new products. These expenditures do not always result in products that will be accepted by our customers. Failure to develop successful new products may also cause customers to buy from a competitor or may cause us to lower our prices in order to compete. If we fail to make innovations, if we launch products with quality problems, or if customers do not accept our new products, then our sales, results of operations, cash flows, and liquidity could be adversely affected.Inability to identify, complete, and integrate acquisitions and grow acquired companies, may adversely impact our sales, results of operations, cash flow and liquidity.Our historical growth has included acquisitions, and our future growth strategy may include acquisition opportunities. For example, in fiscal 2013 the Company acquired PDC, a manufacturer of identification products primarily for the healthcare sector, for $301.2 million. We have not met the sales growth synergies identified at the time of the PDC acquisition, which, in addition to other factors, resulted in the Company recording impairment charges of $148.6 million during fiscal 2014, primarily related to the goodwill and other intangible assets in the PeopleID reporting unit, which consists primarily of the PDC business. Failure to achieve these synergies for PDC or other acquired companies may adversely impact our sales, results of operations, cash flow and liquidity. We may not focus on acquisitions as part of our growth strategy, or if we do, we may not be able to identify acquisition targets or successfully complete acquisitions in the future due to the absence of quality companies in our target markets, economic conditions, or price expectations from sellers. If we do not complete additional acquisitions, our growth may be limited.Acquisitions place significant demands on management, operational, and financial resources. Recent and future acquisitions will require integration of operations, sales and marketing, information technology, finance, and administrative operations, which could decrease the time available to focus on our other growth strategies. We cannot assure that we will be able to successfully integrate acquisitions, that these acquisitions will operate profitably, or that we will be able to achieve the desired sales growth or operational success. Our sales, results of operations, cash flow, and liquidity could be adversely affected if we do not successfully integrate the newly acquired businesses, or if our other businesses suffer due to the increased focus on the acquired businesses. Demand for our products may be adversely affected by numerous factors, some of which we cannot predict or control. This could adversely affect our sales, results of operations, cash flow and liquidity.Numerous factors may affect the demand for our products, including:•Future financial performance of major markets served•Consolidation in the marketplace, allowing competitors and customers to be more efficient and more price competitive•Future competitors entering the marketplace•Decreasing product life cycles •Changes in customer preferencesIf any of these factors occur, the demand for our products could suffer, and this could adversely impact our sales, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.A large customer loss could significantly affect sales, results of operations, cash flow, and liquidity.While we have a broad customer base and no individual customer represents 5% or more of total sales, we conduct business with several large customers and distribution companies. Our dependence on these customers makes relationships with them important. We cannot guarantee that these relationships will be retained in the future. Because these large customers account for a significant portion of sales, they may possess a greater capacity to negotiate reduced prices. If we are unable to provide products to our customers at the quality and prices acceptable to them, some of our customers may shift their business to competitors or may substitute another manufacturer's products. If one of the large customers consolidates, is acquired, or loses market share, the result of that event may have an adverse impact on our business. The loss of or reduction of business from one or more of these large customers could have a material adverse impact on our sales, results of operations, cash flows, and liquidity.We depend on key employees and the loss of these individuals could have an adverse effect on our operations.Our success depends to a large extent upon the continued services of our key executives, managers and other skilled employees. Over the past two fiscal years, we have experienced the loss of several key executives. We cannot ensure that we will be able to retain our key executives, managers and employees. The departure of our key personnel without adequate replacement could disrupt our business operations. Additionally, we need qualified managers and skilled employees with technical and industry 9Table of Contentsexperience to operate our business successfully. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified individuals or our costs to do so increase significantly, our operations could be materially adversely affected. Divestitures could negatively impact our business and contingent liabilities from divested businesses could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and liquidity. We continually assess the strategic fit of our existing businesses and may divest businesses that we determine do not align with our strategic plan, or that are not achieving the desired return on investment. For example, over the last three fiscal years, we have divested our Etimark, Brady Medical, and Varitronics businesses, and our Asia Die-Cut and Balkhausen Die-Cut businesses. Divestitures pose risks and challenges that could negatively impact our business. For example, when we decide to sell a business or assets, we may be unable to do so on satisfactory terms and within our anticipated time-frame, and even after reaching a definitive agreement to sell a business, the sale is typically subject to satisfaction of pre-closing conditions which may not be satisfied. In addition, the impact of the divestiture on our revenue and net earnings may be larger than projected, which could distract management, and disputes may arise with buyers. Also, we have retained responsibility for and have agreed to indemnify buyers against some contingent liabilities related to a number of businesses that we have recently sold. The resolution of these contingencies has not had a material adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flow and liquidity, but we cannot be certain that this favorable pattern will continue.We are a global company headquartered in the United States. We are subject to extensive regulations by U.S. and non-U.S. governmental and self-regulatory entities at various levels of the governing bodies. Failure to comply with laws and regulations could adversely affect our sales, results of operations, cash flow and liquidity.Our operations are subject to the risks of doing business domestically and globally, including the following:•Delays or disruptions in product deliveries and payments in connection with international manufacturing and sales•Political and economic instability and disruptions•Imposition of duties and tariffs•Import, export and economic sanction laws•Current and changing governmental policies, regulatory, and business environments •Disadvantages from competing against companies from countries that are not subject to U.S. laws and regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act •Local labor market conditions•Regulations relating to climate change, air emissions, wastewater discharges, handling and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes•Regulations relating to health, safety and the protection of the environment•Specific country regulations where our products are manufactured or sold•Laws and regulations that apply to companies doing business with the government, including audit requirements of government contracts related to procurement integrity, export control, employment practices, and the accuracy of records and recording of costsFurther, these laws and regulations are constantly evolving and it is impossible to accurately predict the effect they may have upon our sales, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.We cannot provide assurance that our internal controls and compliance systems will always protect us from acts committed by employees, agents or business partners that would violate U.S. and/or non-U.S. laws, including the laws governing payments to government officials, bribery, fraud, anti-kickback and false claims rules, competition, export and import compliance, money laundering and data privacy. Any such improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations in the U.S. and in other jurisdictions, could lead to substantial civil or criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties and related shareholder lawsuits, could damage our reputation, and could adversely impact our results of operations, cash flow and liquidity. Product liability claims could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and reputation.Our business exposes us to potential product liability risk, as well as warranty and recall claims that are inherent in the design, manufacture, sale and use of our products. We sell products in industries such as aerospace, defense, healthcare, chemical, and energy where the impact of product liability risk is high. To date, we have not incurred material costs related to these types of claims. However, in the event our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected and we are subject to such claims above the amount of insurance coverage, outside the scope of our coverage, or for which we do not have coverage, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as well as our reputation, could be materially and adversely affected. 10Table of ContentsFinancial/Ownership RisksFailure to execute our strategies could result in impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets, which may negatively impact earnings and profitability. We have goodwill of $515.0 million and other intangible assets of $91.0 million as of July 31, 2014, which represents 48.3% of our total assets. During fiscal 2014, we recorded impairment charges of $148.6 million, primarily related to the goodwill and other intangible assets in the PeopleID reporting unit. During fiscal 2013, we recorded impairment charges of $204.4 million primarily related to goodwill in the WPS Americas and IDS APAC reporting units. We evaluate goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently if impairment indicators are present, based upon the fair value of each reporting unit. We assess the impairment of other intangible assets on an annual basis, or more frequently if impairment indicators are present, based upon the expected future cash flows of the respective assets. These valuations include management's estimates of sales, profitability, cash flow generation, capital structure, cost of debt, interest rates, capital expenditures, and other assumptions. Significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, inability to achieve sales projections or cost savings, inability to effectively integrate acquired businesses, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets or in entity structure, and divestitures may adversely impact the assumptions used in the valuations. If the estimated fair value of our reporting units changes in future periods, we may be required to record an impairment charge related to goodwill or other intangible assets, which would reduce earnings and profit in such period.Changes in tax legislation or tax rates could adversely affect results of operations and financial statements. Additionally, audits by taxing authorities could result in tax payments for prior periods.We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and in many non-U.S. jurisdictions. As such, our earnings are subject to risk due to changing tax laws and tax rates around the world. At any point in time, there are a number of tax proposals at various stages of legislation throughout the globe. While it is impossible for us to predict whether some or all of these proposals will be enacted, it likely would have an impact on our earnings.Our tax filings are subject to audit by U.S. federal, state and local tax authorities and by non-U.S. tax authorities. If these audits result in payments or assessments that differ from our reserves, our future net earnings may be adversely impacted.We review the probability of the realization of our deferred tax assets on a quarterly basis based on forecasts of taxable income in both the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. As part of this review, we utilize historical results, projected future operating results, eligible carry-forward periods, tax planning opportunities, and other relevant considerations. Adverse changes in profitability and financial outlook in both the U.S. and/or foreign jurisdictions, or changes in our geographic footprint may require changes in the valuation allowances in order to reduce our deferred tax assets. Such changes could result in a material impact on earnings.Our annual cash needs could require us to repatriate cash to the U.S. from foreign jurisdictions, which may result in tax charges. For example, in fiscal 2014, we repatriated cash to the U.S. in connection with the sale of the Die Cut businesses, which resulted in a tax charge of $4.0 million in continuing operations. In fiscal 2013, we repatriated cash to the U.S. in connection with the acquisition of PDC, which resulted in a tax charge of $26.6 million.Substantially all of our voting stock is controlled by members of the Brady family, while our public investors hold non-voting stock. The interests of the voting and non-voting shareholders could differ, potentially resulting in decisions that unfavorably affect the value of the non-voting shares.Substantially all of our voting stock is controlled by Elizabeth P. Pungello, one of the Directors, and William H. Brady III, both of whom are descendants of the Company's founder. All of our publicly traded shares are non-voting. Therefore, Ms. Pungello and Mr. Brady have control in most matters requiring approval or acquiescence by shareholders, including the composition of our Board of Directors and many corporate actions. Such concentration of ownership may discourage a potential acquirer from making a purchase offer that our public shareholders may find favorable, which in turn could adversely affect the market price of our common stock or prevent our shareholders from realizing a premium over our stock price. Furthermore, this concentration of voting share ownership may adversely affect the trading price for our non-voting common stock because investors may perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies whose voting stock is controlled by a limited number of shareholders.Failure to meet certain financial covenants required by our debt agreements may adversely affect our assets, results of operations, cash flows, and liquidity.As of July 31, 2014, we had $263.2 million in outstanding indebtedness. In addition, based on the availability under our credit facilities as of July 31, 2014, we had the ability to incur an additional $404.4 million under our revolving credit agreement. Our current revolving credit agreement and long-term debt obligations also impose certain restrictions on us. Refer to Management's 11Table of ContentsDiscussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A") within Item 7 for more information regarding our credit agreement and long-term debt obligations. If we breach any of these restrictions or covenants and do not obtain a waiver from the lenders, then subject to applicable cure periods, the outstanding indebtedness (and any other indebtedness with cross-default provisions) could be declared immediately due and payable, which could adversely affect our assets, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.