Item 1A. Risk Factors Before making an investment decision with respect to the Company’s stock, you should carefully consider the risks set forth below and all other information contained in this report. If any of the events contemplated by the following risks actually occur, then the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, or liquidity could be materially adversely affected. The Company’s operating results, cash flows, and liquidity are susceptible to uncertainties arising from the length and severity of the current worldwide economic downturn, as well as the timing and strength of the subsequent recovery. The global economic downturn has negatively impacted the Company’s sales volumes and results of operations. All of the segments and most of the major product lines, channels, and markets served by the Company, have experienced significant declines in the current global economic downturn. As a result of the slowing economy, the credit market crisis, declining consumer and business confidence, increased unemployment, reduced levels of capital expenditures, fluctuating commodity prices, bankruptcies, and other challenges affecting the global economy, customers may experience deterioration of their businesses, cash flow shortages, and difficulty obtaining financing. As a result, customers already have reduced or canceled orders and may continue to delay, cancel or further reduce their orders. In addition customers’ ability to pay their invoices may be reduced resulting in increased past due receivables or bad debt. Further, the Company’s vendors may be experiencing similar conditions, which may impact their ability to fulfill their obligations leading to longer days sales outstanding. Although governments around the world are enacting various economic stimulus programs, there can be no assurance as to the timing or effectiveness of such programs. If the worldwide economic downturn continues for a significant period or there is further deterioration in the global economy, the Company’s results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In response to the severe downturn, the Company has reduced its worldwide workforce by approximately 25%. This may cause disruptions in our operations, customer service, quality, and profitability. Market demand for the Company’s products may be susceptible to fluctuations in the economy that may cause volatility in its results of operations, cash flows, and liquidity. Sales of the Company’s products may be susceptible to changes in general economic conditions, namely general downturns in the regional economies in which the Company competes. The Company’s business in the facility & safety identification and wire identification product lines tend to vary with the nominal GDP of the local economies in which the Company manufactures and sells. As a result, in periods of economic contraction, the business is likely to decline. In the current economic downturn, the Company’s business has contracted severely, well in excess of GDP. In addition, the significant drop in non-residential construction has impacted the Company’s MRO business. In the precision die-cut and high performance label product lines, the Company may be adversely affected by reduced demand for products due to downturns in the global economy as this is a more volatile business. This can result in higher degrees of volatility in the Company’s net sales, results of operations, cash flows, and liquidity. These more volatile markets include, but are not limited to, mobile telecommunication devices, hard disk drives and electronics in personal computers and other electronic devices. 11 Table of Contents Uncertainties in the global economy may put pressure on the Company’s ability to maintain compliance with its debt covenants. The Company’s debt and revolving loan agreements require it to maintain certain financial covenants. The June 2004, February 2006, and March 2007 debt agreements require the Company to maintain a ratio of debt to the trailing twelve months earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”), as defined in the debt agreements, of not more than a 3.5 to 1.0 ratio (leverage ratio). The October 2006 revolving loan agreement requires the Company to maintain a ratio of debt to trailing twelve months EBITDA, as defined by the debt agreement, of not more than a 3.0 to 1.0 ratio. Additionally, the revolving loan agreement requires the trailing twelve months earnings before interest and taxes (“EBIT”) to interest expense of not less than a 3.0 to 1.0 ratio (interest expense coverage). The debt agreements also require the aggregate net book value of the assets sold or otherwise disposed of by the Company and its subsidiaries in all dispositions, as defined in the agreement, in any fiscal year of the Company shall not exceed 15% of consolidated tangible net worth. Depending on the severity and duration of the current global economic crisis, uncertainties in the market may put pressure on the Company’s ability to maintain compliance with its covenants. The Company may experience unforeseen tax consequences. The Company periodically reviews the probability of the realization of its deferred tax assets based on forecasts of taxable income in both the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. As part of this review, the Company utilizes historical results, projected future operating results, eligible carry forward periods, tax planning opportunities, and other relevant considerations. Adverse changes in profitability and financial outlook in both the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions, or changes in its geographic footprint may require changes in the valuation allowances to reduce its deferred tax assets or increase tax payments. Such changes could result in material non-cash expenses in the period in which the changes are made and could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations or financial condition. Income tax regulations may change, thus negatively impacting the Company’s future operating results. The Company conducts business internationally. As a result, its financial results may be negatively impacted by changes in international taxation rules in the United States. If United States international tax law changes are enacted as currently outlined (for example, if the tax on deferred income generated outside the U.S. were enacted), it may have a significant negative impact on the Company’s reported financial results and cash flows from operations. The Company may be adversely impacted by an inability to identify, complete and integrate acquisitions. A large part of the Company’s growth since fiscal 2003 has come through acquisitions and a key component of its growth strategy is based upon acquisitions. The Company may not be able to identify acquisition targets or successfully complete acquisitions in the future due to the absence of quality companies, economic conditions, or price expectations from sellers. If the Company is unable to complete additional acquisitions, its growth may be limited. Additionally, as the Company grows through acquisitions, it will continue to place significant demands on its management, operational and financial resources. Since the beginning of fiscal year 2004, the Company has acquired 28 companies. These recent and future acquisitions will require integration of sales and marketing, information technology, finance and administrative operations and information of the newly acquired business. The successful integration of acquisitions will require substantial attention from its management and the management of the acquired businesses, which could decrease the time management has to serve and attract customers. The Company cannot assure that it will be able to successfully integrate these recent or any future acquisitions, that these acquisitions will operate profitably or that it will be able to achieve the financial or operational success expected from the acquisitions. The Company’s financial condition, cash flows and operational results could be adversely affected if it does not successfully integrate the newly acquired businesses or if its other businesses suffer on account of the increased focus on the newly acquired businesses. 12 Table of Contents If the Company fails to develop new products or its customers do not accept the new products it develops, the Company’s business could be affected adversely. Development of proprietary products is key to the success of the Company’s core growth and high gross margins now and in the future. Therefore, the Company must continue to develop new and innovative products and acquire and retain the necessary intellectual property rights in these products on an ongoing basis. If it fails to make innovations, launches products with quality problems, or the market does not accept its new products, then the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and liquidity could be adversely affected. The Company continues to invest in the development and marketing of new products. These expenditures do not always result in products that will be accepted by the market. Failure to develop successful new products may also cause its customers to buy from a competitor or may cause the Company to lower its prices in order to compete. This could have an adverse impact on the Company’s profitability. The Company operates in competitive markets and may be forced to cut its prices or incur additional costs to remain competitive, which may have a negative impact on its profitability. The Company faces substantial competition throughout its entire business, but particularly in the precision die-cut business. Competition may force the Company to cut its prices or incur additional costs to remain competitive. The Company competes on the basis of production capabilities, engineering and R&D capabilities, materials expertise, its global footprint, customer service and price. Present or future competitors may have greater financial, technical or other resources, lower production costs or other pricing advantages, any of which could put the Company at a disadvantage in the affected business by threatening its market share in some markets or reducing its profit margins. Additionally, in some of its other businesses, the Company’s distributors/customers may seek lower cost sourcing opportunities, which could cause a loss of business that may adversely impact the Company’s revenues. Foreign currency fluctuations could adversely affect the Company’s sales, profits, and cash balances. More than 60 percent of the Company’s revenues are derived outside the United States. As such, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can have an adverse impact on its sales and profits as amounts that are measured in foreign currency are translated back to U.S. dollars. Any increase in the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to the value of the local currency will adversely affect operating results from the Company’s foreign operations when translated into U.S. dollars. Similarly, any decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to the value of the local currency will increase operating results in the Company’s foreign operations when translated into U.S. dollars. During fiscal year 2009, the strengthening U.S. dollar versus the majority of other currencies decreased sales by approximately $73.2 million. As of July 31, 2009, approximately 79% of the Company’s cash and cash equivalents were held outside the United States. As a result, fluctuations in foreign currency can have an adverse impact on the Company’s cash balances. Any increase in the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to the value of various foreign currencies will have a negative impact on cash balances when translated into U.S. dollars. Weakening of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies will have a positive impact on cash balances when foreign currencies are translated into U.S. dollars. The Company’s goodwill or other intangible assets may become impaired, which may negatively impact its results of operations. The Company has a substantial amount of goodwill and other intangible assets on its balance sheet as a result of its acquisitions. As of July 31, 2009, the Company had $751.2 million of goodwill on its balance sheet, representing the excess of the total purchase price for its acquisitions over the fair value of the net assets it acquired, and $115.8 million of other intangible assets, primarily representing the fair value of the customer relationships, patents and trademarks it acquired in its acquisitions. At July 31, 2009, goodwill and other intangible assets represented approximately 54.8% of its total assets. The Company evaluates goodwill at least annually for impairment based on the fair value of each operating segment. It assesses the impairment of other intangible assets at least annually based upon the expected future cash flows of the respective assets. These valuations include management’s estimates of sales, profitability, cash flow generation, capital structure, cost of debt, interest rates, capital expenditures, and other assumptions. A worldwide economic downturn, credit crisis, or uncertainty in the 13 Table of Contents markets the Company serves can adversely impact the assumptions in these valuations. If the estimated fair values of the Company’s operating segments change in future periods, it may be required to record an impairment charge related to goodwill or other intangible assets, which would have the effect of decreasing its earnings in such period. The Company has a concentration of business with several large key customers and distributors and loss of one or more of these customers could significantly affect the Company’s results of operations, cash flows, and liquidity. Several of the Company’s large key customers in the precision die-cut business together comprise a significant portion of its revenues. The Company’s largest customer represents approximately 6% of its net sales. Additionally, the Company does business with several large distribution companies. The Company’s dependence on these large customers makes its relationships with these customers important to its business. The Company cannot guarantee that it will be able to maintain these relationships and retain this business in the future. Because these large customers account for a significant portion of the Company’s revenues, they possess relatively greater capacity to negotiate a reduction in the prices the Company charges for its products. If the Company is unable to provide products to its customers at the quality and prices acceptable to them or adapt to technological changes, some of its customers may in the future elect to shift some or all of this business to competitors or to substitute other manufacturer’s products. If one of the Company’s key customers consolidates, is acquired by another company or loses market share, the result of that event may have an adverse impact on the Company’s business. The loss of or reduction of business from one or more of these large key customers could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and liquidity. The Company increasingly conducts a sizable amount of its manufacturing outside of the United States, which may present additional risks to its business. As a result of its strong growth in developing economies, particularly in Asia, a significant portion of the Company’s sales are attributable to products manufactured outside of the United States. More than half of the Company’s approximately 6,800 employees and more than half of its manufacturing locations are outside of the United States. The Company’s international operations are generally subject to various risks including political, economic and societal instability, the imposition of trade restrictions, local labor market conditions, the effects of income taxes, and differences in business practices. The Company may incur increased costs and experience delays or disruptions in product deliveries and payments in connection with international manufacturing and sales that could cause loss of revenue. Unfavorable changes in the political, regulatory and business climate in countries where the Company has operations could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. The Company depends on its key personnel and the loss of these personnel could have an adverse effect on the Company’s operations. The Company’s success depends to a large extent upon the continued services of its key executives, managers and other skilled personnel. The Company cannot ensure that it will be able to retain its key officers and employees. The departure of key personnel without adequate replacement could severely disrupt business operations. Additionally, the Company needs qualified managers and skilled employees with technical and manufacturing industry experience to operate its business successfully. If it is unable to attract and retain qualified individuals or the costs to do so increase significantly, the Company’s operations would be materially adversely affected. Due to the severe economic downturn, the Company reduced its workforce by approximately 25%. While the Company believes it can adequately operate the business at current staffing levels, sudden changes in demand may be difficult to react to with a reduced workforce. Additionally, the potential impact of a serious virus such as H1N1 may affect the Company’s workforce and its ability to operate the business successfully. The Company may be unable to successfully implement anticipated changes to its information technology system. The Company is in the process of upgrading certain portions of its information technology. Part of this upgrade includes continued implementations of SAP and additional functionality for financial systems. The Company expects that these migrations will enable it to more effectively and efficiently manage its operations and further improve business processes. The Company is also in the process of upgrading its 14 Table of Contents e-business and sales force applications in fiscal 2010. The Company expects these upgrades will enable improvements of its on-line business and increase productivity. The Company’s failure to successfully manage these improvements as scheduled could cause it to incur unexpected costs or to lose customers or sales, which could have a material adverse effect on its financial results. An increase in the Company’s level of indebtedness could adversely affect its financial health and make it vulnerable to adverse economic conditions. Any increase in the Company’s level of indebtedness, which historically has occurred to finance acquisitions and for other general corporate purposes, could have adverse consequences, such as: • it may be difficult for the Company to fulfill its obligations under its credit or other debt agreements; • it may be more challenging or costly to obtain additional financing to fund future growth; • the Company may be more vulnerable to future interest rate fluctuations; • the Company may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flows to service its debt, thereby reducing the amount of cash available to fund new product development, capital expenditures, working capital and other general corporate activities; • it may place the Company at a competitive disadvantage relative to its competitors that have less debt; and • it may limit the Company’s flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in its business. Environmental, health and safety laws and regulations could adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company’s facilities and operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations relating to air emissions, wastewater discharges, the handling of hazardous materials and wastes, manufacturing and disposal of certain materials, and regulations otherwise relating to health, safety and the protection of the environment. The Company’s products may also be governed by regulations in the countries where they are sold. As a result, the Company may need to devote management time or expend significant resources on compliance, and has incurred and will continue to incur capital and other expenditures to comply with these regulations. Any significant costs may have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Further, these laws and regulations are constantly evolving and it is impossible to predict accurately the effect they may have upon the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The Company’s businesses are subject to regulation; failure to comply with those regulations could adversely affect its financial condition, results of operations and reputation. In addition to the environmental regulations noted above, the Company’s businesses are subject to extensive regulation by U.S. and non-U.S. governmental and self-regulatory entities at the federal, state and local levels, including the following: The Company is required to comply with various import laws and export control and economic sanctions laws, which may affect its transactions with certain customers, business partners and other persons and dealings with or between its employees and subsidiaries. In certain circumstances, export control and economic sanctions regulations may prohibit the export of certain products, services and technologies, and in other circumstances the Company may be required to obtain an export license before exporting the controlled item. The Company also has agreements relating to the sale of products to government entities or supply products to companies who resell these products to government entities and are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with the government. The laws governing government contracts differ from the laws governing private contracts. The Company is also subject to investigation and audit for compliance with the requirements governing government contracts, including requirements related to procurement integrity, export 15 Table of Contents control, employment practices, the accuracy of records and the recording of costs. A failure to comply with these requirements might result in suspension of these contracts and suspension or debarment from government contracting or subcontracting. The Company may be unable to successfully complete its restructuring plans to reduce costs and increase efficiencies in its businesses and, therefore, it may not achieve projected financial statement benefits. The Company continues to initiate several measures to address its cost structure and projected operational and market requirements. Successful implementation of such initiatives is critical to the Company’s future competitiveness and its ability to improve profitability. Further actions to reduce the Company’s cost structure and the charges related to these actions may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 