Item 1A. Risk Factors Investors should carefully consider the risks set forth below and all other information contained in this report and other documents we file with the SEC. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we have identified as material, but are not the only risks and uncertainties facing us. Our business is also subject to general risk and uncertainties that affect many other companies, such as market conditions, geopolitical events, changes in laws or accounting rules, fluctuations in interest rates, terrorism, wars or conflicts, major health concerns, natural disasters or other disruptions of expected economic or business conditions. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business, including our results of operations, liquidity and financial conditions. Deterioration of or instability in the global economy and financial markets may adversely affect our business and financial statements. Our business and operating results have been and will continue to be affected by global economic conditions. When global economic conditions deteriorate or economic uncertainty continues, customers and potential customers may experience deterioration of their businesses, which may result in the delay or cancellation of plans to purchase our products. In particular, the European debt crisis and the instability and uncertainty relating to the Euro could adversely impact our financial results. Our sensitivity to economic cycles and any related fluctuations in the businesses of our customers or potential customers may have a material effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial conditions. 6 Table of Contents E-commerce increases price transparency and may adversely affect our business and financial statements. A portion of our Direct Marketing business platform is transitioning from traditional channels to e-commerce. Historically, competitors were experts in direct marketing database management. The competitive landscape is changing with the evolution of e-commerce. The barriers to entry are changing with internet technology replacing some traditional catalog direct marketing expertise, and a consequence of this shift is such that prices on some commodity products can be easily compared by the customer. Approximately one-fourth of our sales are derived from our Direct Marketing platform, and this shift toward increased price transparency could adversely impact our results of operations. Demand for our products may be adversely affected by numerous factors, some of which we cannot predict or control. This could adversely affect our financial results. Numerous factors may affect the demand for our products including: • Cyclical demands of the end user marketplace. These markets include, but are not limited to, mobile telecommunication devices, hard disk drives, and electronics in personal computers and other electronic devices. • Future financial performance of major markets served • Consolidation in the marketplace, allowing competitors and customers to be more efficient and more price competitive • Future competitors entering the marketplace • Large customer market share fluctuations • Ever decreasing product life cycles • Changes in customer preferences • Declines in general economic conditions If any of these factors occur, the demand for our products could suffer, and this would adversely affect our results of operations. Price reductions or additional costs may need to be incurred to remain competitive in certain markets, which would have a negative impact on profitability. We face substantial competition throughout our entire business, but particularly in the Die-Cut business platform. Competition may force us to cut prices or incur additional costs to remain competitive. We compete on the basis of price, production capabilities, engineering, global footprint, and global account management. Present or future competitors may have greater financial, technical or other resources, lower production costs or other pricing advantages, any of which could put us at a disadvantage in the affected business by threatening our market share or reducing our profit margins. Additionally, throughout our global business, distributors and customers may seek lower cost sourcing opportunities, which could result in a loss of business that may adversely impact results of operations, cash flows, and liquidity. A large customer loss could significantly affect results of operations, cash flows, and liquidity. While we have a broad customer base and no individual customer represents 5% or more of total sales, several of our large customers in the Die-Cut platform together comprise a significant portion of our sales. Additionally, we conduct business with several large distribution companies. Our dependence on these large customers makes relationships with them important. We cannot guarantee that these relationships will be retained in the future. Because these large customers account for a significant portion of sales, they may possess a greater capacity to negotiate reduced prices. If we are unable to provide products to our customers at the quality and prices acceptable to them or to adapt to technological changes, some of our customers may shift their business to competitors or may substitute another manufacturer’s products. If one of the large customers consolidates, is acquired, or loses market share, the result of that event may have an adverse impact on our business. The loss of or reduction of business from one or more of these large customers could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and liquidity. The global nature of our business exposes us to foreign currency fluctuations that could adversely affect sales, profits, and cash balances. The majority of our sales are derived outside the United States. Sales and purchases in currencies other than the U.S. dollar expose us to fluctuations in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar, and may adversely affect our financial statements. Increased strength of the U.S. dollar will increase the effective price of our products sold in currencies other than U.S. dollars into other countries. Decreased strength of the U.S. dollar could adversely affect the cost of materials, products, and services purchased overseas. Our sales and expenses are translated into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes, and the strengthening or weakening of the U.S. dollar could result in unfavorable translation effects. In addition, certain of our subsidiaries may invoice customers in a currency other than its functional currency, which could result in unfavorable translation effects on sales, profits, and cash balances. 7 Table of Contents International operations are subject to various U.S. or country-specific regulations which could adversely affect our financial statements. Our operations are subject to the risks of doing business abroad, including the following: • Delays or disruptions in product deliveries and payments in connection with international manufacturing and sales • Political and economic instability and disruptions • Imposition of duties and tariffs • Import and export controls • Changes in governmental policies and business environments • Disadvantages from competing against companies from countries that are not subject to U.S. laws and regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) • Local labor market conditions • Current and changing regulatory environments • Potentially adverse tax consequences, including repatriation of profits • Stability of the Euro and its ability to serve as a single currency for a variety of countries These events could have an adverse effect on our operations by reducing the demand, decreasing prices, or increasing costs for our products, which would adversely affect our financial condition or operating results. Failure to develop new products or lack of acceptance of new products could adversely impact our business and financial statements. Development of proprietary products is a driver of core growth and reasonable gross profit margins both currently and in the future. Therefore, we must continue to develop new and innovative products, as well as acquire and retain the necessary intellectual property rights in these products. If we fail to make innovations, if we launch products with quality problems, or if the market does not accept our new products, then our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and liquidity could be adversely affected. We continue to invest in the development and marketing of new products. These expenditures do not always result in products that will be accepted by the market. Failure to develop successful new products may also cause customers to buy from a competitor or may cause us to lower our prices in order to compete. This could have an adverse impact on profitability. Inability to identify, complete and integrate acquisitions may adversely impact our business and financial statements. Our historical growth has included, and our future growth strategy includes making acquisitions. We may not be able to identify acquisition targets or successfully complete acquisitions in the future due to the absence of quality companies in our target markets, economic conditions, or price expectations from sellers. If we are unable to complete additional acquisitions, our growth may be limited. Additionally, as we grow through acquisitions, we will continue to place significant demands on management, operational, and financial resources. Recent and future acquisitions will require integration of operations, sales and marketing, information technology, finance and administrative operations, which could decrease the time available to serve and attract customers. We cannot assure that we will be able to successfully integrate acquisitions, that these acquisitions will operate profitably, or that we will be able to achieve the financial or operational success expected from the acquisitions. Our financial condition, cash flows, and operational results could be adversely affected if we do not successfully integrate the newly acquired businesses, or if our other businesses suffer due to the increased focus on the newly acquired businesses. 8 Table of Contents Failure to successfully complete restructuring plans may adversely impact the financial statements. We continue to implement measures to address our cost structure. Successful implementation of such initiatives is critical to our future competitiveness and to improve profitability. Further actions to reduce our cost structure and the charges related to these actions may have a material effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Failure to comply with laws and regulations could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and reputation. We are subject to extensive regulation by U.S. and non-U.S. governmental and self-regulatory entities at the federal, state and local levels, including the following: • Regulations relating to climate change, air emissions, wastewater discharges, handling and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes • Regulations relating to health, safety and the protection of the environment • Specific country regulations where product is manufactured or sold • Import, export and economic sanction laws • Laws and regulations that apply to companies doing business with the government, audit for compliance with requirements of government contracts including procurement integrity, export control, employment practices, and the accuracy of records and recording of costs Further, these laws and regulations are constantly evolving, and it is impossible to predict accurately the effect they may have upon our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We cannot provide assurance that our internal controls and compliance systems will always protect us from acts committed by employees, agents or business partners that would violate U.S. and/or non-U.S. laws, including the laws governing payments to government officials, bribery, fraud, anti-kickback and false claims rules, competition, export and import compliance, money laundering and data privacy. Any such improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations in the U.S. and in other jurisdictions, could lead to substantial civil or criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties and related shareholder lawsuits, and could damage our reputation. Computer systems and technology may be susceptible to cyber threats which could adversely impact the financial statements. Our exposure to cyber-security threats is growing as we expand and increase our reliance on computers and digital technologies. Our business employs systems and websites designed for the secure storage and transmission of proprietary information. Security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, litigation and potential liability. We may not have the resources or technical sophistication to anticipate or prevent rapidly evolving types of cyber attacks. Any compromise of our security could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, and a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could harm our business. Failure to meet certain financial covenants required by our debt agreements may adversely affect our assets, financial position, cash flows, and liquidity. As of July 31, 2012, we had approximately $316.2 million in outstanding indebtedness. In addition, based on the availability under our credit facilities as of July 31, 2012, we had the ability to incur an additional $300.0 million under our revolving credit agreement. Our current revolving credit agreement and long-term debt obligations also impose certain restrictions on us. Refer to the MD&A within Item 7 for more information regarding our credit agreement and long-term debt obligations. If we breach any of these restrictions or covenants and do not obtain a waiver from the lenders, then, subject to applicable cure periods, the outstanding indebtedness (and any other indebtedness with cross-default provisions) could be declared immediately due and payable, which would adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. 9 Table of Contents An increase in the level of debt could adversely affect our financial health. An increase in our level of debt, which historically has occurred in order to finance acquisitions and for other general corporate purposes, could adversely impact: obligations under existing debt agreements; ability to obtain additional financing for future growth; future interest rates; cash flows available to fund new product development; capital expenditures; working capital and other general corporate activities; and our flexibility in planning and reacting to changes in the business. Goodwill or other intangible assets may become impaired, which may negatively impact profitability. We have goodwill of $676.8 million and other intangible assets of $84.1 million as of July 31, 2012, which represents 47% of our total assets. We evaluate goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if impairment indicators are present based upon the fair value of each reporting unit. We assess the impairment of other intangible assets on an annual basis or more frequently if impairment indicators are present based upon the expected future cash flows of the respective assets. These valuations include management’s estimates of sales, profitability, cash flow generation, capital structure, cost of debt, interest rates, capital expenditures, and other assumptions. Significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, inability to achieve forecasted sales projections or cost savings, inability to effectively integrate acquired businesses, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets or in entity structure, and divestitures may adversely impact the assumptions used in the valuations. If the estimated fair value of our reporting units changes in future periods, we may be required to record an impairment charge related to goodwill or other intangible assets, which would reduce earnings in such period. Changes in tax legislation or tax rates could adversely affect results of operations and financial statements. Additionally, audits by taxing authorities could result in tax payments for prior periods. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and in many non-U.S. jurisdictions. As such, our earnings are subject to risk due to changing tax laws and tax rates around the world. At any point in time, there are a number of tax proposals at various stages of legislation throughout the globe. While it is impossible for us to predict whether some or all of these proposals will be enacted, it is likely would have an impact on our earnings. Our tax filings are subject to audit by U.S. federal, state and local tax authorities and by non-U.S. tax authorities. If these audits result in payments or assessments different from our reserves, our future net earnings may be adversely impacted. We review the probability of the realization of our deferred tax assets on a quarterly basis based on forecasts of taxable income in both the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. As part of this review, we utilize historical results, projected future operating results, eligible carry-forward periods, tax planning opportunities, and other relevant considerations. Adverse changes in profitability and financial outlook in both the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions, or changes in our geographic footprint may require changes in the valuation allowances in order to reduce our deferred tax assets. Such changes could result in a material impact on earnings. Our annual cash needs could require us to repatriate cash to the U.S. from foreign jurisdictions. This could result in material expenses in the period in which the transactions occur. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 