Item 1A. Risk Factors Before making an investment decision with respect to the Company’s stock, you should carefully consider the risks set forth below and all other information contained in this report. If any of the events contemplated by the following risks actually occur, then the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, or liquidity could be materially affected. The Company’s financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, or liquidity may be adversely affected by a prolonged economic downturn or economic uncertainty. The Company’s business and operating results have been and will continue to be affected by global economic conditions. As global economic conditions deteriorate or economic uncertainty continues, our customers and potential customers may experience deterioration of their businesses, which may result in the delay or cancellation of plans to purchase our products. Our sensitivity to economic cycles and any related fluctuations in the businesses of our customers or potential customers may have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, or liquidity. Demand for the Company’s products may be susceptible to fluctuations in the major markets served that may cause volatility in its results of operations, cash flows, and liquidity. Sales of the Company’s products may be susceptible to changes in market conditions. The Company’s business in the safety and facility identification and wire and cable identification product lines tends to vary with the nominal GDP of the local economies in which the Company manufactures and sells. As a result, in periods of economic contraction, the business is likely to decline. In the precision die-cut and high performance identification product lines, the Company may be adversely affected by reduced demand for products due to downturns in the global economy as this is a more volatile business. This can result in higher degrees of volatility in the Company’s net sales, results of operations, cash flows, and liquidity. These more volatile markets include, but are not limited to, mobile telecommunication devices, hard disk drives and electronics in personal computers and other electronic devices. 10 Table of Contents Failure to meet certain financial covenants required by our debt agreements may adversely affect our assets, financial position, cash flows, and liquidity. The Company’s debt and revolving loan agreements require it to maintain certain financial covenants. The June 2004, February 2006, March 2007 and May 2010 debt agreements require the Company to maintain a ratio of debt to the trailing twelve months earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”), as defined in the debt agreements, of not more than a 3.5 to 1.0 ratio (leverage ratio). The October 2006 revolving loan agreement, as amended and extended in May 2008, requires the Company to maintain a ratio of debt to trailing twelve months EBITDA, as defined by the debt agreement, of not more than a 3.0 to 1.0 ratio. Additionally, the revolving loan agreement requires the trailing twelve months earnings before interest and taxes (“EBIT”) to interest expense of not less than a 3.0 to 1.0 ratio (interest expense coverage). The October 2006 revolving loan agreement, as amended and extended in May 2008, also requires that the aggregate net book value of the assets sold or otherwise disposed of by the Company and its subsidiaries, as defined in the agreement, in any fiscal year of the Company shall not exceed 15% of consolidated tangible net worth. If we breach any of these restrictions or covenants and do not obtain a waiver from the lenders, then, subject to applicable cure periods, the outstanding indebtedness (and any other indebtedness with cross-default provisions) could be declared immediately due and payable, which would adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. An increase in the Company’s level of debt could adversely affect our financial health. An increase in the Company’s level of debt, which historically has occurred to finance acquisitions and for other general corporate purposes, could adversely impact: obligations under existing debt agreements; ability to obtain additional financing for future growth; future interest rates; cash flows available to fund new product development; capital expenditures; working capital and other general corporate activities; and the Company’s flexibility in planning and reacting to changes in the business. The Company’s net earnings could be affected by changes in tax legislation or tax rates. Additionally, audits by taxing authorities could result in tax payments for prior periods. The Company is subject to income taxes in the U.S. and in many non-U.S. jurisdictions. As such the Company’s net earnings are subject to risk due to changing tax laws and tax rates around the world. At any point in time, there are a number of tax proposals at various stages of legislation throughout the globe. While it is impossible for us to predict whether some or all of these proposals will be enacted, it is likely they will have an impact on our net earnings. The Company’s tax filings are subject to audit by U.S. federal, state and local tax authorities and by non-U.S. tax authorities. If these audits result in payments or assessments different from our reserves, our future net earnings may be adversely impacted. The Company reviews the probability of the realization of its deferred tax assets on a quarterly basis based on forecasts of taxable income in both the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. As part of this review, the Company utilizes historical results, projected future operating results, eligible carry-forward periods, tax planning opportunities, and other relevant considerations. Adverse changes in profitability and financial outlook in both the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions, or changes in its geographic footprint may require changes in the valuation allowances to reduce its deferred tax assets. Such changes could result in material non-cash expenses in the period in which the changes are made and could have a material impact on the Company’s net earnings. The Company may be adversely impacted by an inability to identify, complete and integrate acquisitions. Our historical growth has included, and our future growth strategy includes, acquisitions. The Company may not be able to identify acquisition targets or successfully complete acquisitions in the future due to the absence of quality companies, economic conditions, or price expectations from sellers. If the Company is unable to complete additional acquisitions, its growth may be limited. 11 Table of Contents Additionally, as the Company grows through acquisitions, it will continue to place significant demands on its management, operational and financial resources. Recent and future acquisitions will require integration of operations, sales and marketing, information technology, finance and administrative operations. The successful integration of acquisitions will require substantial attention from the Company’s management and the management of the acquired businesses, which could decrease the time management, has to serve and attract customers. The Company cannot assure that it will be able to successfully integrate these recent or any future acquisitions, that these acquisitions will operate profitably or that it will be able to achieve the financial or operational success expected from the acquisitions. The Company’s financial condition, cash flows and operational results could be adversely affected if it does not successfully integrate the newly acquired businesses or if its other businesses suffer on account of the increased focus on the newly acquired businesses. If the Company fails to develop new products or its customers do not accept the new products it develops, the Company’s business could be adversely affected. Development of proprietary products is key to the success of the Company’s core growth and reasonable gross profit margins now and in the future. Therefore, the Company must continue to develop new and innovative products and acquire and retain the necessary intellectual property rights in these products on an ongoing basis. If it fails to make innovations, launches products with quality problems, or the market does not accept its new products, then the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and liquidity could be adversely affected. The Company continues to invest in the development and marketing of new products. These expenditures do not always result in products that will be accepted by the market. Failure to develop successful new products may also cause its customers to buy from a competitor or may cause the Company to lower its prices in order to compete. This could have an adverse impact on the Company’s profitability. The Company operates in competitive markets and may be forced to cut its prices or incur additional costs to remain competitive, which may have a negative impact on its profitability. The Company faces substantial competition throughout its entire business, but particularly in the precision die-cut business. Competition may force the Company to cut its prices or incur additional costs to remain competitive. The Company competes on the basis of production capabilities, engineering and R&D capabilities, materials expertise, its global footprint, global account management where needed, customer service and price. Present or future competitors may have greater financial, technical or other resources, lower production costs or other pricing advantages, any of which could put the Company at a disadvantage in the affected business by threatening its market share or reducing its profit margins. Additionally, in some of its other businesses, the Company’s distributors/customers may seek lower cost sourcing opportunities, which could cause a loss of business that may adversely impact the Company’s revenues. The global nature of our business exposes us to foreign currency fluctuations that could adversely affect the Company’s sales, profits, and cash balances. More than 60 percent of the Company’s revenues are derived outside the United States. As such, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can have an adverse impact on its sales and profits as amounts that are measured in foreign currency are translated back to U.S. dollars. Any increase in the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to the value of the local currency will adversely affect operating results from the Company’s foreign operations when translated into U.S. dollars. Similarly, any decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to the value of the local currency will increase operating results in the Company’s foreign operations when translated into U.S. dollars. During fiscal 2011, the weakening U.S. dollar versus the majority of other currencies increased the Company’s sales by $31.1 million. At July 31, 2011, approximately 69% of the Company’s cash and cash equivalents were held outside the United States. As a result, fluctuations in foreign currency can have an adverse impact on the Company’s cash balances. Any increase in the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to the value of various foreign currencies will have a negative impact on cash balances when translated into U.S. dollars. Weakening of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies will have a positive impact on cash balances when foreign currencies are translated into U.S. dollars. During fiscal 2011, the weakening U.S. dollar versus the majority of other currencies increased the Company’s cash and cash equivalents by $22.0 million. 12 Table of Contents The Company’s goodwill or other intangible assets may become impaired, which may negatively impact the Company’s profitability. The Company has a substantial amount of goodwill and other intangible assets on its balance sheet as a result of its acquisitions. As of July 31, 2011, the Company had $800.3 million of goodwill on its balance sheet, representing the excess of the total purchase price for its acquisitions over the fair value of the net assets it acquired, and $90.0 million of other intangible assets, primarily representing the fair value of the customer relationships, patents and trademarks it acquired in its acquisitions. At July 31, 2011, goodwill and other intangible assets represented approximately 48% of the Company’s total assets. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if impairment indicators are present based on the fair value of each operating segment. It assesses the impairment of other intangible assets on an annual basis or more frequently if impairment indicators are present based upon the expected future cash flows of the respective assets. These valuations include management’s estimates of sales, profitability, cash flow generation, capital structure, cost of debt, interest rates, capital expenditures, and other assumptions. Significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to the Company’s business, inability to effectively integrate acquired businesses, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets or in entity structure, and divestitures may adversely impact the assumptions used in the valuations. If the estimated fair value of the Company’s operating segments change in future periods, it may be required to record an impairment charge related to goodwill or other intangible assets, which would have the effect of decreasing its earnings in such period. The Company has a concentration of business with several large key customers and distributors and loss of one or more of these customers could significantly affect the Company’s results of operations, cash flows, and liquidity. While the Company has a broad customer base and no individual customer represents 5% or more of total net sales, several of the Company’s large key customers in the precision die-cut business together comprise a significant portion of its revenues. Additionally, the Company does business with several large distribution companies. The Company’s dependence on these large customers makes its relationships with these customers important to its business. The Company cannot guarantee that it will be able to maintain these relationships and retain this business in the future. Because these large customers account for a significant portion of the Company’s revenues, they possess relatively greater capacity to negotiate a reduction in the prices the Company charges for its products. If the Company is unable to provide products to its customers at the quality and prices acceptable to them or adapt to technological changes, some of its customers may in the future elect to shift some or all of this business to competitors or to substitute other manufacturer’s products. If one of the Company’s key customers consolidates, is acquired by another company or loses market share, the result of that event may have an adverse impact on the Company’s business. The loss of or reduction of business from one or more of these large key customers could have a material impact on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and liquidity. The Company increasingly conducts a sizable amount of its manufacturing outside of the United States, which may present additional risks to its business. A significant portion of the Company’s sales are attributable to products manufactured outside of the United States. More than half of the Company’s approximately 6,500 employees and more than half of its manufacturing locations are outside of the United States. The Company’s international operations are generally subject to various risks including political, economic and societal instability, the imposition of trade restrictions, local labor market conditions, the effects of income taxes, and differences in business practices. The Company may incur increased costs and experience delays or disruptions in product deliveries and payments in connection with international manufacturing and sales that could cause loss of revenue. Unfavorable changes in the political, regulatory and business climate in countries where the Company has operations could have a material effect on its financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows Environmental, health and safety laws and regulations could adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company’s facilities and operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations relating to climate change, air emissions, wastewater discharges, the handling of hazardous materials and wastes, manufacturing and disposal of certain materials, and regulations otherwise relating to health, safety and the protection of the environment. The Company’s products may also be governed by regulations in the countries where they are sold. As a result, the Company may need to devote management time or expend significant resources on compliance, and has incurred and will continue to incur capital and other expenditures to comply with these regulations. Any significant costs may have a material impact on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Further, these laws and regulations are constantly evolving and it is impossible to predict accurately the effect they may have upon the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 13 Table of Contents The Company’s businesses are subject to regulation; failure to comply with those regulations could adversely affect its financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and reputation. In addition to the environmental regulations noted above, the Company’s businesses are subject to extensive regulation by U.S. and non-U.S. governmental and self-regulatory entities at the federal, state and local levels, including the following: The Company is required to comply with various import laws and export control and economic sanctions laws, which may affect its transactions with certain customers, business partners and other persons and dealings with or between its employees and subsidiaries. In certain circumstances, export control and economic sanctions regulations may prohibit the export of certain products, services and technologies, and in other circumstances the Company may be required to obtain an export license before exporting the controlled item. The Company also has agreements relating to the sale of products to government entities or supply products to companies who resell these products to government entities and are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with the government. The laws governing government contracts differ from the laws governing private contracts. The Company is also subject to investigation and audit for compliance with the requirements of government contracts, including requirements related to procurement integrity, export control, employment practices, the accuracy of records and the recording of costs. A failure to comply with these requirements might result in suspension of these contracts and suspension or debarment from government contracting or subcontracting. The Company cannot provide assurance that its internal controls and compliance systems will always protect the Company from acts committed by the Company’s employees, agents or business partners that would violate U.S. and/or non-U.S. laws, including the laws governing payments to government officials, bribery, fraud, anti-kickback and false claims rules, competition, export and import compliance, money laundering and data privacy. Any such improper actions could subject the Company to civil or criminal investigations in the U.S. and in other jurisdictions, could lead to substantial civil or criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties and related shareholder lawsuits and could damage the Company’s reputation. The Company may be unable to successfully complete its restructuring plans to reduce costs and increase efficiencies in its businesses and, therefore, it may not achieve projected financial statement benefits. The Company continues to implement several measures to address its cost structure. Successful implementation of such initiatives is critical to the Company’s future competitiveness and its ability to improve profitability. Further actions to reduce the Company’s cost structure and the charges related to these actions may have a material effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 