ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Certain Factors That May Affect Future Results This report contains forward-looking statements, including statements regarding the future success of our business and technology strategies, our research and development, our future market opportunities, our revenues, and our intellectual property. These statements are neither promises nor guarantees, but involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements expressed in or implied by these forward-looking statements. These risks include risks related to our revenue growth, operating results, industry, products including the integration and customer acceptance of Cognos 8, and litigation, as well as the other factors discussed below and elsewhere in this report. Readers should not place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they were made. Except to the extent required by applicable law, we disclaim any obligation to publicly update or revise any such statements to reflect any change in our expectations or in events, conditions, or circumstances on which any such statements may be based, or that may affect the likelihood that actual results will differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Our reliance on larger transactions is increasing and larger transactions are complex and unpredictable. Our business and our operational performance, increasingly relies on larger transactions at the enterprise level. In any particular fiscal period, the presence or absence of one or more of these large transactions may have a material positive or negative effect on our anticipated revenue in that period. These large transactions represent significant business and financial decisions for our customers and involve the expenditure of considerable time and effort by us and our customers in the sales process. As well, these large transactions require additional levels of management approval when compared to smaller transactions. These factors tend to increase the risk that the customer’s purchasing decision may be postponed or delayed from one period to another subsequent or later period or that the customer will alter his purchasing requirements. The sales effort and service delivery scope for larger transactions also require additional resources to execute the transaction. These factors, along with any other foreseen or unforeseen event, could result in lower than anticipated revenue for a particular period or in the reduction of estimated revenue in future periods. As we continue to face intense competition, and the nature of our competition is changing, we may not compete successfully. We face substantial and increased competition throughout the world. We expect our existing and new competitors to continue to improve the performance of their current products and to introduce new products (or integrated products) or new technologies. The software market and the nature of our competition may continue to consolidate and transform by merger or acquisition. Larger software vendors, including ERP software vendors, may continue to expand their product offering into our markets. For example, ERP vendor, Oracle Corporation announced in April 2007 that it had acquired Hyperion Solutions. It acquired Siebel Systems, Inc. in January 2006 and PeopleSoft, Inc. in 2005. In addition, Microsoft has increased its presence in our markets and has announced that it will continue expansion into business intelligence using its Windows platform. As our competitors continue to merge or partner with other of our competitors or ERP vendors or if we were to become the subject of an unsolicited acquisition initiative by another enterprise, such changes in the competitive landscape may pose new competitive challenges that could adversely affect our ability to compete either because of an improvement in one of our competitor’s competitive position or due to distraction caused by an 15 Table of Contents unsolicited acquisition. Entry or expansion of other large software vendors, including ERP vendors, into this market may establish competitors that have larger customer bases and substantially greater financial and other resources with which to pursue research and development, manufacturing, marketing, and distribution of their products. Their current customer base and relationships may also provide them with a competitive advantage. New product announcements or introductions by our competitors, including the continuing emergence of open source software offerings, could cause a decline in sales, a reduction in the sales price, or a loss of market acceptance of our existing products. If we are unable to effectively compete against our current and future competitors, our ability to sell products could be harmed. Any erosion of our competitive position could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our products are increasingly used in complex business environments so their installation and operation in those environments is complex and requires planning and cooperation between us and our customers. Our current products are increasingly being adopted in complex business environments. These environments pose considerable challenges to a software vendor and the successful implementation of our products in these environments requires project management expertise and cooperation between us and our customers. If we cannot enable our customers to successfully implement our products in these challenging and complex environments, we could suffer a decline in follow-on business from that customer, a decline in successful reference customers and a decline in our reputation in the market – all of which could have a material impact on our financial condition. Our sales forecasts may not match actual revenues in a particular period. The basis of our business budgeting and planning process is the estimation of revenues that we expect to achieve in a particular quarter and is based on a common industry practice known as the “pipeline” system. Under this system, information relating to sales prospects, the anticipated date when a sale will be completed and the potential dollar amount of the sale are tracked and analyzed to provide a “pipeline” of future business. These pipeline estimates are not necessarily reliable predictors of revenues in a particular quarter because of, among other things, the events identified in these risk factors, as well as the subjective nature of the estimates themselves. In particular, a slowdown in technology spending or a deterioration in economic conditions is likely to result in the delay or cancellation of prospective orders in our pipeline. Also, an increase in the complexity and importance of large transactions and the resulting increase in time to complete these large transactions makes forecasting more difficult. A variation from our historical or expected conversion rate of the pipeline could adversely affect our budget or planning and could consequently materially affect our operating results and our stock price could suffer. We may not be able to hire, integrate, retain, or compensate key personnel essential to our business or we may not be able to manage changes and transitions in our key personnel. We believe that our success depends on our ability to hire, retain, and incent senior management and other key employees to develop, market, and support our products and manage our business. The loss of any one of their services could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success is also highly dependent on our continuing ability to hire, integrate, and retain other highly qualified personnel as well as our ability to train and develop our existing personnel. The failure to attract and retain or to train and develop key personnel could adversely affect our future growth and profitability. Changes in senior management or other key personnel can also cause temporary disruption in our operations during transition periods. Also, a decline in our stock price may have a negative impact on the retention value of any stock-based awards to key employees and could negatively affect our ability to retain and attract key employees. 16 Table of Contents Our total revenue and operating results may fluctuate, which could result in fluctuations in the price of our common stock. We cannot provide assurance that revenue from our products will continue to grow, or grow at previous rates or rates projected by management. For example, while our rate of revenue growth between 2007 and 2006 was greater than the rate of growth between fiscal years 2006 and 2005, our rate of revenue growth between fiscal years 2006 and 2005 was lower than the rate of growth between fiscal years 2005 and 2004. Anticipated revenue may be reduced by any one, or a combination of, unforeseen market, economic, or competitive factors some of which are discussed in this section. We have experienced, and in the future may experience, a shortfall in revenue or earnings or otherwise fail to meet public market expectations, which could materially and adversely affect our business and result in fluctuations in the market price of our common stock. Our quarterly and annual operating results may vary between periods. Historically, our quarterly operating results have varied from quarter to quarter, and we anticipate this pattern will continue. We typically realize a larger percentage of our annual revenue and earnings in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, and lower revenue and earnings in the first quarter of the following fiscal year. As well, in each quarter we typically close a larger percentage of sales transactions near the end of that quarter. As a result, it is difficult to anticipate the revenue and earnings that we will realize in any particular quarter until near the end of the quarter. Some of the causes of this difficulty are explained in other risk factors – in particular those entitled ‘Our sales forecasts may not match actual revenues in a particular period’, ‘Our dependence on larger transactions is increasing and the length of time required to complete a sales cycle has become lengthy, complex and unpredictable’ and ‘Our expenses may not match anticipated revenues’. Our expenses may not match anticipated revenues. We plan our operating expenses on anticipated revenue trends. Since a high percentage of these expenses are relatively fixed in the short term, a delay in completing license transactions could cause significant variations in operating results from quarter to quarter and could result in operating losses. If these expenses precede, or are not subsequently followed by, increased revenues, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. For example, in fiscal year 2007, we incurred unplanned restructuring charges resulting from our margin improvement plan which was implemented because our revenues were in line with projections, but our expenses were projected to be greater than expected. In addition, because many of our costs are fixed in the immediate term, it can be difficult to adjust our cost structure for shortfalls in projected revenues. This can result in our financial results in a fiscal period being below our expectations and guidance. Currency fluctuations may adversely affect us. A substantial portion of both our revenues and expenditures are generated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, such as the Canadian dollar and the euro. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and other currencies, particularly the euro and the Canadian dollar, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results as we report in U.S. dollars. For example, while foreign exchange fluctuations had a favorable impact on results in fiscal 2007, the Canadian dollar strengthened during fiscal 2006 resulting in greater than anticipated expenses when reported in U.S. dollars. Please see further discussion on foreign currency risk included in the Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure on Market Risk in the Market Risk section of Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this Form 10-K. 17 Table of Contents Economic conditions could adversely affect our revenue growth and ability to forecast revenue. The revenue growth and profitability of our business depends on the overall demand for BI and PM products and services. Because our sales are primarily to major corporate customers in the high technology, telecommunications, financial services (including insurance), pharmaceutical, utilities, and consumer packaged goods industries, our business depends on the overall economic conditions and the economic and business conditions within these industries. A weakening of one or more of the global economy, the information technology industry, or the business conditions within the industries listed above may cause a decrease in our software license revenues. A decrease in demand for computer software caused, in part, by a continued weakening of the economy, domestically or internationally, may result in a decrease in revenues and growth rates. If we do not respond effectively to rapid technological change, our products may become obsolete. The markets for our products are characterized by: rapid and significant technological change; frequent new product introductions and enhancements; changing customer demands; and evolving industry standards. We cannot provide assurance that our products and services will remain competitive in light of future technological change or that we will be able to respond to market demands and developments or new industry standards. If we are unable to identify a shift in market demand or industry standards quickly enough, we may not be able to develop products to meet those new demands or standards, or to bring them to market in a timely manner. In addition, failure to respond successfully to technological change may render our products and services obsolete and thus harm our ability to attract and retain customers. Even if we do respond to technological changes, our solutions may be less appealing to customers than those of our competitors, or our customers may not accept our new products and services. We operate internationally and face risks attendant to those operations. We earn a significant portion of our total revenues from international sales generated through our foreign direct and indirect operations. These sales operations face risks arising from local political, legal and economic factors such as the general economic conditions in each country or region, varying regulatory requirements, compliance with international and local trade, labor and other laws, and reduced intellectual property protections in certain jurisdictions. We may also face difficulties in managing our international operations, collecting receivables in a timely fashion, and repatriating earnings. Any of these factors, either individually, or in combination could materially impact our international operations and adversely affect our business as a whole. Making and integrating acquisitions and our strategic decisions could impair our operating results. We have acquired and, if appropriate, will continue to seek to acquire additional products or businesses that we believe complement or augment our products. Acquisitions involve a number of risks, including: diversion of management’s attention; disruption of our ongoing business; difficulties in integrating and retaining all or part of the acquired business and its personnel; assumption of disclosed and undisclosed liabilities; dealing with unfamiliar laws, customs and practices in foreign jurisdictions; and the effectiveness of the acquired company’s internal controls and procedures. The individual or combined effect of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business. As well, in paying for an acquisition, we may deplete our cash resources, dilute our shareholder base by issuing additional shares, or incur debt. Furthermore, there is the risk that our valuation assumptions and our models for an acquired product or business may be erroneous or inappropriate due to foreseen or unforeseen circumstances and thereby cause us to overvalue an acquisition target. There is also the risk that the contemplated benefits of an acquisition may not materialize as planned or may not materialize within the time period or to the extent anticipated. Likewise, we make strategic decisions relating to all aspects of our operations including with respect to the direction of product development, acquisitions and other strategic investments, transactions and initiatives. These decisions often involve the review and consideration of competing alternatives and advice from various advisors, culminating in the exercise of judgment. There is the risk that our decision to proceed, or not to proceed, in a particular direction or with a particular strategic investment, transaction or initiative may not ultimately be the optimal decision for the company. Such decisions may hamper our competitiveness in the marketplace and have an adverse impact on our operational and financial performance. 18 Table of Contents New accounting pronouncements or guidance may require us to change the way in which we account for our operational or business activities. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”), the SEC, and other bodies that have jurisdiction over the form and content of our accounts are constantly discussing and interpreting proposals and existing pronouncements designed to ensure that companies best display relevant and transparent information relating to their respective businesses. The pronouncements and interpretations of pronouncements by FASB, the SEC, and other bodies may have the effect of requiring us to account for revenues and/or expenses in a different manner. For example, beginning with the first quarter of fiscal 2007, we began expensing the fair value of stock options. As a result, we now report increased expenses in our income statement and a reduction of our net income and earnings per share. The impact on Cognos’ current financial statements of applying a fair value method of accounting for stock options is disclosed in Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K and in our Form 8-K filed on March 29, 2007. Our intellectual property may be misappropriated or we may have to defend ourselves against other parties’ claims. We rely on various intellectual property protections, including contractual provisions, patents, copyright, trademark, and trade secret laws, to preserve our intellectual property rights. Despite our precautions, our intellectual property may be misappropriated, causing us to lose potential revenue and competitive advantage. As well, we may ourselves from time to time become subject to claims by third parties that our technology infringes their intellectual property rights. In either case, we may incur expenditures to police, protect, and defend our interests and may become involved in litigation that could divert the attention of our management from developing our business. Responding to such claims could result in substantial expense and result in damages, royalties, or injunctive relief, satisfy indemnification obligations to our customers, or require us to enter into licensing agreements on unfavorable terms, or redesign or stop selling affected products which could materially disrupt the conduct of our business. We may face liability claims if our software products or services fail to perform as intended. The sale, servicing, and support of our products entails the risk of product liability, performance or warranty claims, which may be substantial in light of the use of our products in business-critical applications. A successful product liability claim could seriously disrupt our business and adversely affect our financial results. Software products are complex and may contain errors or defects, particularly when first introduced, or when new versions or enhancements are released, or when configured to individual customer requirements. Although we currently have in place procedures and staff to exercise quality control over our products and respond to defects and errors found in current versions, new versions, or enhancements of our products, defects and errors may still occur. New products and new product versions or enhancements may also contain defects or errors which may not be known to us at the time of introduction. If these defects or errors are discovered after delivery to our customers, customers may delay or reduce purchases, our reputation may be damaged, and we may incur additional costs associated with product claims, remedial work, and the addition or diversion of resources to address the defects or errors. This may result in decreased sales, increased costs and a loss of market share, all of which could have a negative impact on our financial results and performance. Specifically, if there are defects and errors found in Cognos 8, it could disrupt our business, impact our sales and adversely affect our financial results. We attempt to contractually limit our liability in accordance with industry practices. However, defects and errors in our products, including Cognos 8, could inhibit or prevent customer deployment and cause us to lose customers or require us to pay penalties or damages. 19 Table of Contents We may have exposure to greater or lower than anticipated tax liabilities. We are subject to income taxes and non-income taxes in a variety of jurisdictions and our tax structure is subject to review by both domestic and foreign taxation authorities. The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results, positively or negatively, in the fiscal year for which such determination is made. 20 Table of Contents 