ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Certain Factors That May Affect Future Results This report contains forward-looking statements, including statements regarding the future success of our business and technology strategies, our research and development, our future market opportunities, our revenues, and our intellectual property. These statements are neither promises nor guarantees, but involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements expressed in or implied by these forward-looking statements. These risks include risks related to our revenue growth, operating results, industry, products including the integration and customer acceptance of Cognos 8, and litigation, as well as the other factors discussed below and elsewhere in this report. Readers should not place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they were made. Except to the extent required by applicable law, we disclaim any obligation to publicly update or revise any such statements to reflect any change in our expectations or in events, conditions, or circumstances on which any such statements may be based, or that may affect the likelihood that actual results will differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Our dependence on larger transactions is increasing and the length of time required to complete a sales cycle has become more lengthy, complex, and unpredictable. As existing and potential customers seek to standardize on a single BI vendor and as our business continues to evolve toward larger transactions at the enterprise level and larger transactions account for a greater proportion of our business, the presence or absence of one or more of these large transactions in a particular period may have a material positive or negative effect on our revenue in that period. For example, in fiscal years 2006 and 2005, we closed 585 and 535 contracts greater than $200,000, representing 32% and 33% of our revenue for these periods, respectively, compared to 394 contracts greater than $200,000, representing 27% of our revenue for fiscal 2004. These significant transactions represent significant business and financial decisions for our customers and require a considerable effort on the part of customers to assess alternative products and require additional levels of management approvals before being concluded. They are also often more complex than smaller transactions. These factors generally lengthen the typical sales cycle and increase the risk that the customer’s purchasing decision may be postponed or delayed from one period to another subsequent or later period or that the customer will alter his purchasing requirements. The sales effort and service delivery scope for larger transactions also require additional resources to execute the transaction. These factors, along with any other foreseen or unforeseen event, could result in lower than anticipated revenue for a particular period or in the reduction of estimated revenue in future periods. We face intense and increasing competition and we may not compete successfully. We face substantial and increased competition throughout the world. We expect our competitors to continue to improve the performance of their current products and to introduce new products (or integrated products) or new technologies. The software market may continue to consolidate by merger or acquisition and larger software vendors, including ERP software vendors, may continue to expand their product offering into our markets. For example, ERP vendor, Oracle Corporation, acquired Siebel Systems, Inc. in January 2006 and also acquired one of its major ERP competitors, PeopleSoft, Inc. in 2005. In addition, Microsoft has increased its presence in our markets and has announced that it will continue expansion into business intelligence. As our competitors continue to merge or partner with other of our competitors or ERP vendors or if we were to become the subject of an unsolicited acquisition initiative by another enterprise, such changes in the competitive landscape could adversely affect our ability to compete either because of an improvement in one of our competitor’s competitive position or due to distraction caused by an unsolicited acquisition. Entry or expansion of other large software vendors, including ERP vendors, into this market may establish competitors which have larger existing customer bases and substantially greater financial and other resources with which to pursue research and development, manufacturing, marketing, and distribution of their products. Their current customer base and relationships may also provide them with a competitive advantage. New product announcements or introductions by our competitors, including the continuing emergence of open source software offerings, could cause a decline in sales, a reduction in the sales price, or a loss of market acceptance of our existing products. To the extent that we are unable to effectively compete against our current and future competitors, our ability to sell products could be harmed. Any erosion of our competitive position could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 14 The introduction of Cognos 8 and other new products could erode revenue from existing products and a delay in the release schedule for a product may have a material adverse impact on our financial results. We may develop technology or a product that constitutes a marked advance over both our own products and those of our competitors. We believe Cognos 8 is an example of such a product. With the introduction of such a product, we may experience a decline in revenues of our existing products that is not fully matched by the new product’s revenue. For example, customers may delay making purchases of a new product to permit them to make a more thorough evaluation of the product, or until the views of the industry analysts and the marketplace become widely available. In addition, some customers may hesitate migrating to a new product out of concerns regarding the complexity of migration and product infancy issues on performance. In addition, we may lose existing customers who choose a competitor’s product rather than upgrade or migrate to our new product. This could result in a temporary or permanent revenue shortfall and materially affect our business. A delay in our release schedule for a new product or a major release may also result in us not being able to recognize revenue as previously anticipated during a particular period and it may delay the purchase of the product by customers. Despite our efforts to minimize the impact of these events, these events could result in a temporary or permanent revenue shortfall and materially affect our business and financial results. For example, in the third quarter of fiscal year 2006, we believe confusion in the market regarding the availability of Cognos 8 had a negative impact on our overall performance for the quarter. Currency fluctuations may adversely affect us. A substantial portion of both our revenues and expenditures are generated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, such as the Canadian dollar and the euro. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and other currencies, particularly the euro and the Canadian dollar, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results as we report in U.S. dollars. For example, the Canadian dollar has continued to strengthen during fiscal 2006, leading to higher than anticipated expenses when reported in U.S. dollars. Please see further discussion on foreign currency risk included in the Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure on Market Risk in the Market Risk section of Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this Form 10-K. 15 Economic conditions could adversely affect our revenue growth and ability to forecast revenue. The revenue growth and profitability of our business depends on the overall demand for BI and CPM products and services. Because our sales are primarily to major corporate customers in the high technology, telecommunications, financial services (including insurance), pharmaceutical, utilities, and consumer packaged goods industries, our business depends on the overall economic conditions and the economic and business conditions within these industries. A weakening of one or more of the global economy, the information technology industry, or the business conditions within the industries listed above may cause a decrease in our software license revenues. A decrease in demand for computer software caused, in part, by a continued weakening of the economy, domestically or internationally, may result in a decrease in revenues and growth rates. We may not be able to hire, integrate, retain, or incent key personnel essential to our business or we may not be able to manage changes and transitions in our key personnel. We believe that our success depends on our ability to hire, retain, and incent senior management and other key employees to develop, market, and support our products and manage our business. The loss of any one of their services could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success is also highly dependent on our continuing ability to hire, integrate, and retain highly qualified personnel as well as our ability to train and develop personnel. The failure to attract and retain or to train and develop key personnel could adversely affect our future growth and profitability. Changes in senior management or other key personnel can also cause temporary disruption in our operations during transition periods. If we do not respond effectively to rapid technological change, our products may become obsolete. The markets for our products are characterized by: rapid and significant technological change; frequent new product introductions and enhancements; changing customer demands; and evolving industry standards. We cannot provide assurance that our products and services will remain competitive in light of future technological change or that we will be able to respond to market demands and developments or new industry standards. If we are unable to identify a shift in market demand or industry standards quickly enough, we may not be able to develop products to meet those new demands or standards, or to bring them to market in a timely manner. In addition, failure to respond successfully to technological change may render our products and services obsolete and thus harm our ability to attract and retain customers. Even if we do respond to technological changes, our solutions may be less appealing to customers than those of our competitors, or our customers may not accept our new products and services. Our sales forecasts may not match actual revenues in a particular period. The basis of our business budgeting and planning process is the estimation of revenues that we expect to achieve in a particular quarter and is based on a common industry practice known as the “pipeline” system. Under this system, information relating to sales prospects, the anticipated date when a sale will be completed and the potential dollar amount of the sale are tracked and analyzed to provide a “pipeline” of future business. These pipeline estimates are not necessarily reliable predictors of revenues in a particular quarter because of, among other things, the events identified in these risk factors, as well as the subjective nature of the estimates themselves. In particular, a slowdown in technology spending or a deterioration in economic conditions is likely to result in the delay or cancellation of prospective orders in our pipeline. Also, an increase in the complexity and importance of large transactions and the resulting increase in time to complete these large transactions makes forecasting more difficult. A variation from our historical or expected conversion rate of the pipeline could adversely affect our budget or planning and could consequently materially affect our operating results and our stock price could suffer. 16 We operate internationally and face risks attendant to those operations. We earn a significant portion of our total revenues from international sales generated through our foreign direct and indirect operations. These sales operations face risks arising from local political, legal and economic factors such as the general economic conditions in each country or region, varying regulatory requirements, compliance with international and local trade, labor and other laws, and reduced intellectual property protections in certain jurisdictions. We may also face difficulties in managing our international operations, collecting receivables in a timely fashion, and repatriating earnings. Any of these factors, either individually or in combination, could materially impact our international operations and adversely affect our business as a whole. Our total revenue and operating results may fluctuate, which could result in fluctuations in the price of our common stock. We have experienced revenue growth from our products in the past. We cannot, however, provide assurance that revenue from these products will continue to grow, or grow at previous rates or rates projected by management. For example, our rate of revenue growth between fiscal years 2006 and 2005 was lower than the rate of growth between fiscal years 2005 and 2004. Anticipated revenue may be reduced by any one, or a combination of, unforeseen market, economic, or competitive factors some of which are discussed in this section. We have experienced and in the future may experience a shortfall in revenue or earnings or otherwise fail to meet public market expectations, which could materially and adversely affect our business and result in fluctuations in the market price of our common stock. Our quarterly and annual operating results may vary between periods. Historically, our quarterly operating results have varied from quarter to quarter, and we anticipate this pattern will continue. We typically realize a larger percentage of our annual revenue and earnings in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, and lower revenue and earnings in the first quarter of the following fiscal year. As well, in each quarter we typically close a larger percentage of sales transactions near the end of that quarter. As a result, it is difficult to anticipate the revenue and earnings that we will realize in any particular quarter until near the end of the quarter. Some of the causes of this difficulty are explained in other risk factors – in particular those entitled ‘Our sales forecasts may not match actual revenues in a particular period’, ‘Our dependence on larger transactions is increasing and the length of time required to complete a sales cycle has become lengthy, complex and unpredictable’ and ‘Our expenses may not match anticipated revenues’. Our expenses may not match anticipated revenues. We base our operating expenses on anticipated revenue trends. Since a high percentage of these expenses are relatively fixed in the short term, a delay in completing license transactions could cause significant variations in operating results from quarter to quarter and could result in operating losses. If these expenses precede, or are not subsequently followed by, increased revenues, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. For example, in fiscal year 2006, our revenues were lower than expected while our expenses were in line with our projections. This resulted in a lower operating margin for the fiscal year. 17 Making and integrating acquisitions could impair our operating results. We have acquired and, if appropriate, will continue to seek to acquire additional products or businesses that we believe are complementary to ours. Acquisitions involve a number of other risks, including: diversion of management’s attention; disruption of our ongoing business; difficulties in integrating and retaining all or part of the acquired business and its personnel; assumption of disclosed and undisclosed liabilities; dealing with unfamiliar laws, customs and practices in foreign jurisdictions; and the effectiveness of the acquired company’s internal controls and procedures. The individual or combined effect of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business. As well, in paying for an acquisition, we may deplete our cash resources or dilute our shareholder base by issuing additional shares. Furthermore, there is the risk that our valuation assumptions and our models for an acquired product or business may be erroneous or inappropriate due to foreseen or unforeseen circumstances and thereby cause us to overvalue an acquisition target. There is also the risk that the contemplated benefits of an acquisition may not materialize as planned or may not materialize within the time period or to the extent anticipated. New accounting pronouncements or guidance may require us to change the way in which we account for our operational or business activities. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”), the SEC, and other bodies that have jurisdiction over the form and content of our accounts are constantly discussing and interpreting proposals and existing pronouncements designed to ensure that companies best display relevant and transparent information relating to their respective businesses. The pronouncements and interpretations of pronouncements by FASB, the SEC, and other bodies may have the effect of requiring us to account for revenues and/or expenses in a different manner. For example, beginning with the first quarter of fiscal 2007, we will be required to expense the fair value of stock options. As a result, we will report increased expenses in our income statement and a reduction of our net income and earnings per share. The impact on Cognos’ current financial statements of applying a fair value method of accounting for stock options is disclosed in Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K and in our Form 8-K filed on March 30, 2006. Our intellectual property may be misappropriated or we may have to defend ourselves against other parties’ claims. We rely on various intellectual property protections, including contractual provisions, patents, copyright, trademark, and trade secret laws, to preserve our intellectual property rights. Despite our precautions, our intellectual property may be misappropriated causing us to lose potential revenue and competitive advantage. As well, we may ourselves from time to time become subject to claims by third parties that our technology infringes their intellectual property rights. In either case, we may incur expenditures to police, protect, and defend our interests and may become involved in litigation that could divert the attention of our management. Responding to such claims could result in substantial expense and result in damages, royalties, or injunctive relief, or require us to enter into licensing agreements on unfavorable terms, or redesign or stop selling affected products which could materially disrupt the conduct of our business. 18 We may face liability claims if our software products or services fail to perform as intended. The sale, servicing, and support of our products entails the risk of product liability, performance or warranty claims, which may be substantial in light of the use of our products in business-critical applications. A successful product liability claim could seriously disrupt our business and adversely affect our financial results. Software products are complex and may contain errors or defects, particularly when first introduced, or when new versions or enhancements are released, or when configured to individual customer requirements. Although we currently have in place procedures and staff to exercise quality control over our products and respond to defects and errors found in current versions, new versions, or enhancements of our products, defects and errors may still occur. If there are defects and errors found in Cognos 8, it could disrupt our business, impact our sales and adversely affect our financial results. We also attempt to contractually limit our liability in accordance with industry practices. However, defects and errors in our products, including Cognos 8, could inhibit or prevent customer deployment and cause us to lose customers or require us to pay penalties or damages. Natural or other disasters and hostilities or terrorist attacks may disrupt our operations. Natural or other disasters like the hurricanes in the southeastern United States in 2005, and hostilities or terrorist attacks may disrupt our operations or those of our customers, distributors, and suppliers, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. The threat of future outbreak or continued escalation of hostilities involving the United States or other countries could adversely affect the growth rate of our software license revenue and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We may have exposure to greater or lower than anticipated tax liabilities. We are subject to income taxes and non-income taxes in a variety of jurisdictions and our tax structure is subject to review by both domestic and foreign taxation authorities. The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results, positively or negatively, in the fiscal year for which such determination is made. For example, our effective tax rate for fiscal year 2006 was lower than anticipated due to the recognition of benefits resulting from a tax court decision that allowed us to claim investment tax credits on stock-based compensation for research and development personnel relating to fiscal years 2004 and 2005 and other tax adjustments. 19 