Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business involves many risks. The risks factors we consider material to our business are summarized below. Uncertainty of Profits The profitability of our oil and gas operations depends upon various factors, many of which are beyond our control. They include: • natural gas and crude oil prices, which are subject to substantial fluctuations based on supply and demand, seasonality, access to and capacity of transportation facilities, storage levels, comparative prices and availability of alternative fuels, worldwide political and economic conditions, the nature and extent of governmental regulation and taxation and the effect of energy conservation measures; • future market, economic and regulatory factors that may materially affect our sales of gas production; and • business and operating practices of our competitors. Depletion of Oil and Gas Reserves Unless we continue to acquire additional properties with proved reserves and expand our reserves through successful exploration and development activities, our reserves will decline as they are produced. Although the production history for most of our Appalachian wells is substantially less than the average reserve life for mature wells in the region, estimates of our proved producing reserves as of December 31, 2007 were based on historical production profiles for the region. This resulted in a projected decline rate of approximately 19.7% for 2008, decreasing hyberbolically to 5.4% in 2022. The actual performance of our wells could differ materially from these estimates. The depletion of our reserves, whether at anticipated rates or otherwise, will reduce cash flow for future growth as well as the assets available to secure financing for the development and replacement of our existing reserves. Uncertainties in Estimating Reserves There are many uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves and in projecting future rates of production and timing of development expenditures. Reservoir engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact way. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is dependent on the quality of available data and is subject to engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. Results of our drilling, testing and production after the date of our estimates may require future revisions of the estimates. As a result, our reserve estimates may differ materially from the quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered. Uncertainties in Recovering Undeveloped Reserves As of December 31, 2007, approximately 54% of our estimated proved reserves were undeveloped, and 68% of our reserves in Leatherwood, our largest field based on year-end reserve estimates, were undeveloped. The ultimate recovery of our undeveloped reserves is uncertain. Recovering these reserves will require significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. Our reserve estimates assume that we will be able to make the capital expenditures needed to develop these reserves, and we may not have the capital or financing we need for their development. These estimates also assume the continuation of existing economic conditions, including the costs associated with reserve development, which may not be accurate over time. In addition, our development of 8 Table of Contents these reserves may not occur as scheduled. Any of these factors could cause our actual results from future development initiatives to vary significantly from the anticipated results reflected in our reserve estimates. Uncertainties in Timing and Cost for Implementing Drilling Schedule Based on prevailing economic and operating conditions, we expect to begin recovery of the proved undeveloped reserves included in our reserve estimates at the end of 2007 through our drilling initiatives over the next three years. The implementation of our development schedule for recovering these reserves is the most important component of our growth strategy. Our ability to execute this strategy is subject to a number of uncertainties, including the availability of capital, seasonal conditions, regulatory approvals, commodity prices, development costs and drilling results. Due to heightened industry demand, well service providers and equipment are in short supply. This has resulted in escalating prices for these resources. The supply imbalance may also cause delays in drilling operations and the possibility of poor services, with the potential for damage to downhole reservoirs and accidents from the overuse of equipment and the inexperience of field personnel. Because of these uncertainties, we may be unable to drill and produce our identified drilling locations or alternative prospects on schedule or on budget, and our actual results from these initiatives may differ materially from our expectations, which could adversely affect all aspects of our business. Operating Hazards Our drilling, production and gas gathering operations involve many operating hazards and a high degree of risk. They include the risk of fire, explosions, blowouts, craterings, pipe failure, casing collapse, abnormally pressured formations and environmental hazards such as gas leaks, ruptures and release of contaminated water. Any of these hazards could result in personal injury, property and environmental damage, clean-up responsibilities and other regulatory penalties. Dependence on Capital Markets Our business involves significant ongoing capital requirements. The rate of production from oil and gas properties declines as reserves are depleted. Without the capital to fund ongoing development activities, our proved reserves would decline as oil and gas is produced from our proved developed reserves. Our long term performance and profitability depends not only on developing our existing oil and gas reserves, but also on our ability to find or acquire additional reserves that we can develop and operate efficiently and finance on acceptable terms. Financial Leverage We are substantially leveraged, and our ability to repay or refinance our debt will be subject to our future performance and prospects as well as market and general economic conditions beyond our control. We have $37 million outstanding principal amount of convertible notes that will mature in December 2010 unless previously redeemed by us or converted by the holders into our common stock. We also maintain a credit facility secured by liens on our oil and gas properties. The facility has a five-year maturity for revolving term loans and letters of credit in an aggregate amount up to $125 million, with a borrowing base of $65 million at December 31, 2007. We may increase the facility for future acquisitions or capital expenditures. Because our business is capital intensive, we will likely be dependent on additional financing to repay our outstanding long term debt at maturity. There can be no assurance that we will be able to secure the necessary refinancing on acceptable terms. Lack of Dividends on Common Stock We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock. Our current policy is to retain future earnings to finance the acquisition and development of additional oil and gas reserves. Any future determination about the payment of dividends will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon our operating results, financial condition, capital requirements, restrictions in debt instruments, general business conditions and other factors the board of directors deems relevant. If we issue any preferred stock, it will be eligible for dividends prior and in preference to our common stock, when and if declared by the board of directors. 9 Table of Contents Volatility of Market Price for Common Stock The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant volatility in response to variations in results of operations and other factors. In addition, the equity markets in general or in our industry sector may experience wide price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated and disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies, and the trading price of our common stock could be affected by those fluctuations. Affect of Future Sales on Market Price for Common Stock Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock could depress its market price. As of December 31, 2007, there were 26,136,064 shares of our common stock issued and outstanding. If all our convertible notes and stock options outstanding at year end are converted or exercised, there will be an additional 5,540,601 shares of our common stock outstanding. All of these shares are eligible for public resale without restrictions. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that substantial sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices of the common stock. Listing Requirements for Common Stock To remain eligible for trading on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, we must meet various requirements, including corporate governance standards, specified shareholders’ equity and a market price above $1.00 per share. If our common stock were to be delisted, liquidity in the common stock would be impaired. Any delisting of our common stock would also be an event of default requiring us to redeem our outstanding convertible notes. Unprofitability of Gold and Silver Properties We have gold and silver properties in Alaska that are undeveloped, dormant and unprofitable. To retain our interests in the properties, we must expend funds each year to maintain the validity of our gold and silver exploration rights. We have no plans to develop these properties independently and instead are seeking either a joint venture partner to provide funds for additional exploration of the prospects or a buyer for the properties. Our ability to find a strategic partner or buyer will depend on the anticipated profitability of potential production activities as well as the price of gold and silver, which in turn is affected by factors such as inflation, interest rates, currency rates, geopolitical and other factors beyond our control. We have not derived any revenues from our gold and silver properties and may never be able to realize any production revenues or sale proceeds from the properties. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 