Item 1A Risk Factors The risks and related factors we consider material to our business are summarized below. The occurrence of any one of these events could significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition to the other information contained in this report, including the matters addressed in “Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,” you should carefully consider the following risk factors in evaluating the company. We are in covenant default under our credit agreement and cross default of our convertible notes and, if we are unable the complete our pending sale to Magnum Hunter or enter into an alternative transaction which results in repayment of these debt obligations by March 31, 2011, we may be forced into bankruptcy by the credit facility lenders and note holders. We are currently in default of the leverage coverage covenant under our credit agreement, which triggered a cross default under our 6% amortizing convertible notes during the fourth quarter of 2010. The credit facility lenders and note holders have agreed to forbear from pursuing their legal remedies under the condition that the company complete a qualifying transaction that results in the repayment in full of all obligations under the credit agreement and the payment of all remaining convertible notes at a default rate by March 31, 2011 or a subsequent date not later than April 15, 2011 that the lenders may extend the forbearance deadline. There is no certainty that the lenders and note holders would continue to forbear if we fail to complete the pending sale of the company under our arrangement agreement with Magnum Hunter and are not able to enter into an alternative qualifying transaction which results in repayment of these obligations by the scheduled deadline. In that event, the company would not have sufficient funds to make these debt payments, and could be forced into bankruptcy if the credit facility lenders or note holders choose to pursue their legal remedies. If we are unable to complete the arrangement or other qualifying transaction by the forbearance deadline imposed by our credit facility lenders and are forced into bankruptcy, our common stock would be severely diluted or eliminated entirely. We had a working capital deficit of $47.8 million as of December 31, 2010, primarily reflecting our obligations as of year-end under our credit agreement and convertible notes. Substantially all of our assets are pledged as collateral under our credit facility, and the lenders would be entitled to take possession and foreclose on our assets, including our cash balances, if we are unable to complete the arrangement or other qualifying transaction by the forbearance deadline. In that event, the holders of our convertible notes or other creditors may seek to initiate involuntary bankruptcy proceedings against us or against one or more of our subsidiaries, which would force us to make defensive voluntary filings of our own under the federal bankruptcy laws. In either case, it is likely that our common stock would be severely diluted if not eliminated entirely. Based on our lack of financial liquidity and the limited forbearance from the covenant default under our credit agreement and cross default of our convertible notes, our independent registered public accounting firm included an explanatory paragraph in their report on our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2010 regarding their substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. Based on our lack of financial liquidity and the limited forbearance from the covenant default under our credit agreement and cross default of our convertible notes, our independent registered public accounting firm has included an explanatory paragraph in their report on our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2010 regarding their substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. As of December 31, 2010, our credit facility had an outstanding balance of $35.5 million, and we had $16.5 million in convertible notes outstanding, all of which had been called for redemption in cash at a default rate. Our consolidated financial statements included in this report have been prepared on a going concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities and commitments in the normal course of business. The financial statements do not include any adjustments to our recorded assets and liabilities that could be required if we were unable to satisfy the terms of our forbearance agreements with the credit facility lenders and note holders. Although the arrangement will be a qualifying transaction, if completed by the forbearance deadlines imposed by our lenders and note holders, the consummation of arrangement is subject to certain closing conditions, and there is no assurance that those conditions will be satisfied. The consummation of the arrangement transaction with Magnum Hunter is subject to certain closing conditions including, among other things: 14 Table of Contents • the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the votes cast by the holders of the company’s common stock; • the receipt of Canadian court approval; • the continuing effectiveness of the company’s agreement with its credit facility lenders to forbear from exercising any rights or remedies under our credit agreement; • the effective date of the arrangement being on or before March 31, 2011 or a subsequent date not later than April 15, 2011 that the lenders may extend the forbearance deadline; • the issuance of no more than 32 million shares of the company’s common stock to the holders of our convertible notes since November 15, 2010; • the absence of any event, circumstance or fact that individually or in the aggregate has had or would be expected to have a material adverse effect with respect to the company; • the absence of injunctions or restraints imposed by governmental entities; • the restructuring of our gas gathering and sales arrangements with Seminole Energy on substantially the terms set forth in a letter of intent among Magnum Hunter, NGAS Production and Seminole Energy in connection with our entry into the arrangement agreement; and • the full payment by Magnum Hunter of all remaining convertible notes at the applicable default rate and all outstanding obligations under the company’s credit facility. The arrangement agreement contains certain termination rights for both the company and Magnum Hunter, including a termination right for either party if the arrangement is not consummated by March 31, 2011 or any extension of the forbearance deadline by the credit facility lenders to not later than April 15, 2011. In addition, upon termination of the arrangement agreement under specified circumstances, the company will owe Magnum Hunter a cash termination fee of $4 million or reimbursement of its expenses not to exceed $4 million if our shareholders do not approve the arrangement. There is no assurance that the arrangement will be consummated. Whether or not the arrangement is completed, we have incurred and will continue to incur legal, financial advisor and other costs relating to the sale process. If the arrangement is consummated, there is no assurance that its anticipated benefits will be realized, which could adversely affect the value of Magnum Hunter common stock received by shareholders of the company. If the arrangement is completed, NGAS will become a wholly owned subsidiary of Magnum Hunter. The success of the arrangement will depend, in part, on Magnum Hunter’s ability to effectively integrate our business with its own operations and realize the anticipated benefits from combined operations. However, it is possible that Magnum Hunter will not be able to achieve these benefits fully, or at all, or will not be able to achieve them within the anticipated timeframe. We have operated independently and will continue to do so until the completion of the arrangement, and there can be no assurance that our businesses can be integrated successfully. It is possible that the integration process could result in the disruption of each company’s ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies. Specific issues that must be addressed upon completion of the arrangement in order to realize the anticipated benefits include, among other things: • integrating the companies’ oil and natural gas exploration and production operations; • applying each company’s best practices to the combined oil and natural gas portfolio; • combining the companies’ oil and natural gas processing, marketing and transportation operations; • harmonizing the companies’ operating practices, employee development and compensation programs, internal controls and other policies, procedures and processes; • integrating the companies’ corporate, administrative and information technology infrastructure; and • managing any tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integration. 15 Table of Contents Estimates of our proved reserves are based on assumptions that could cause them to be substantially higher or lower than the volume and net present value of natural gas and oil actually recovered. As a result, our reserve estimates may differ materially from the quantities of natural gas and oil that are ultimately recovered. There are many uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves and in projecting future rates of production, as well as the timing and amount of development expenditures and production costs. Reservoir engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be directly measured. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is dependent on the quality of available data and is subject to engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. Results of our drilling and production as well as changes in commodity prices and production costs after the date of our estimates may require future revisions of the estimates. In addition, estimates of our proved undeveloped reserves assume that we will be able to make the necessary capital expenditures, and we may not have the capital or financing we need for their development at the pace or levels assumed in our estimates. Our current proved developed reserves will decline from depletion of our existing wells. Our current proved developed reserves will decline as they are produced. Based on extensive historical production profiles for vertical wells in the Appalachian Basin and the limited production history for horizontal Devonian shale wells in the region, the blended decline rate for our proved developed reserves as of December 31, 2010 averaged 14.4% for 2011, decreasing hyberbolically to 5.5% in 2025. The actual performance of our wells could differ from these estimates, and EURs for our horizontal wells could vary even more materially from their estimated reserves in view of their limited production history. The depletion of our reserves, whether at anticipated rates or otherwise, will reduce cash flow from our wells and their value as collateral to support the development of our oil and gas properties and replacement of our existing reserves. Production volumes from our properties will decline without ongoing drilling. Various field operating conditions may adversely affect production volumes from our existing wells. These conditions include potential delays in obtaining regulatory approvals and easements for connecting completed wells to existing gathering facilities and the risk that production from connected wells could be interrupted, or shut in, from time to time for various reasons, including weather conditions, accidents, loss of pipeline access, mechanical conditions, field labor issues or intentionally as a result of market conditions. While close well monitoring and effective maintenance operations can contribute to maximizing production rates over time, production delays and declines from normal field operating conditions cannot be eliminated and can be expected to adversely affect revenue and cash flow levels to varying degrees. Moreover, due to the short production history for horizontal shale wells in our operating areas and similar regional plays, the timing and extent of production declines for our horizontal wells cannot be predicted with any certainty. The timing and costs of developing our oil and gas properties are uncertain and may differ materially from expectations. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 26% of our proved reserves were undeveloped, and 69% of our total acreage was undeveloped. Developing these properties will require significant capital expenditures for ongoing drilling operations, and we may not have the capital or financing we need for their development. The costs associated with developing these resources are also uncertain and may increase disproportionately with commodity prices over time. Any of these factors could cause our actual results from future development initiatives on unproved properties to vary significantly from the results anticipated in our business plan. Executing that plan is subject to a number of uncertainties, including our access to capital, seasonal conditions, regulatory approvals and the continued availability of field services and equipment. Drilling activity has increased in the Appalachian Basin over the last few years in reported success in regional shale plays, notably the Marcellus play near our operating areas in the Appalachian Basin. The heightened demand for field services contributed to constraints on the availability of skilled labor, equipment, pipeline capacity and other resources in the region. Continued market disruptions may cause delays in drilling operations and the possibility of poor results. Volatility in oil and natural gas prices may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations and our ability to meet our capital expenditure obligations and financial commitments. The prices we receive for oil and natural gas production heavily influence our revenue, profitability and access to capital. Oil and natural gas prices are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand. Historically, the markets for oil and natural gas have been extremely volatile. These markets 16 Table of Contents will likely continue to be volatile in the future. The prices we receive for our production, and the levels of our production, depend on numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: • the extent of domestic natural gas production, which has increased over the last few years from the use of horizontal drilling technologies to accelerate development of shale and other unconventional resource plays; • the impact of weather and general economic conditions on consumer and industrial demand for natural gas; • volatile trading patterns in the commodities trading markets; • the proximity and capacity of pipelines; • storage levels; • comparative prices and availability of alternative fuels; • worldwide supply and demand for oil, natural gas, NGL and liquefied natural gas; and • federal and state regulatory and conservation programs, including possible climate-related measures for regulating greenhouse gas emissions. Natural gas accounted for 69% of our total production revenues in 2010 and 75% of our proved reserves at year-end. Lower natural gas prices not only decrease our revenues on a per unit basis but may also reduce the amount of natural gas that we can produce economically. Our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2010 reflect negative revisions of approximately ___ Bcfe from the prior year-end estimates as a result of commodity price declines. In addition, our 2010 year-end estimates include proved undeveloped locations that would generate positive future net revenue, based on the constant prices and costs determined under the current reserve rules, but would have negative present value when discounted at 10% per year under the standardized measure. Continued weakness in natural gas prices could require us to make additional downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves. Under successful efforts accounting rules, this could potentially require impairment charges in future periods if the carrying value of any proved oil and gas property exceeds the expected undiscounted future net cash flows from that acreage based on commodity prices or other economic factors at the time of the impairment review. While any impairment charge would not affect our cash flow from operations, it could reflect our long-term ability to recover an investment based on prevailing conditions and would impact our reported earnings and leverage ratios. Our operations involve hazards and exposure to liabilities that might not be fully covered by insurance. Our drilling, production and gas gathering operations involve many operating hazards and a high degree of risk. They include the risk of fire, explosions, blowouts, craterings, pipe or mechanical failure of drilling equipment, casing collapse and environmental hazards such as gas leaks, ruptures and discharges. Any of these hazards could result in personal injury, property and environmental damage, clean-up responsibilities and other regulatory penalties. See “Business and Properties – Regulation.” While we conduct our operations to comply with applicable environmental regulations, permits and lease conditions, including maintenance of insurance against these risks, we remain exposed to liabilities for inadvertent noncompliance, conditions beyond our control and undetected conditions resulting from activities by prior owners or operators of properties in which we own interests. As a result, the operating hazards associated with our development and production activities may result in substantial liabilities, some of which may not be fully covered by our insurance. Market prices for our common stock are volatile. The market price of our common stock is subject to significant volatility in response to variations in our operating and financial results, perceptions about our future prospects and other factors. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the perception that substantial sales may occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices of the common stock. There were 70,953,689 shares of our common stock issued and outstanding at February 28, 2010. As of that date, we also had $12.4 million of convertible notes outstanding, reflecting monthly note amortization installments paid in common stock through November 2010 and subsequent note conversions at an average reset price $0.37 following the cross default on the convertible notes. Subsequent conversions are subject to our compliance with the forbearance agreements we entered with the note holders in December 2010. See “MD&A – Liquidity and Capital Resources.” 17 Table of Contents We plan to transfer the listing for our common stock to the Nasdaq Capital Market on March 28, 2011 based on our failure to regain compliance with the $1.00 minimum bid price requirement for continued listing on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, which may adversely affect the market price and liquidity of our common stock. Since September 2010, we have been out of compliance with the $1.00 minimum bid price requirement for our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, and the grace period for regaining compliance will end on March 28, 2011. An additional 180-day period will be available to regain compliance if we transfer the listing for our common stock to the Nasdaq Capital Market and meet all other listing requirements. We intend to apply for the listing transfer, which may adversely affect the market price and liquidity of our common stock. Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments None. 