Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business involves many risks. The risks factors we consider material to our business are summarized below. Uncertainty of Profits The profitability of our oil and gas operations depends upon various factors, many of which are beyond our control. They include: • natural gas and crude oil prices, which are subject to substantial fluctuations based on supply and demand, seasonality, access to and capacity of transportation facilities, price and availability of alternative fuels, worldwide political and economic conditions, the nature and extent of governmental regulation and taxation and the effect of energy conservation measures; • future market, economic and regulatory factors that may materially affect our sales of gas production; and • business and operating practices of our competitors. Depletion of Oil and Gas Reserves Unless we continue to acquire additional properties with proved reserves and expand our reserves through successful exploration and development activities, our reserves will decline as they are produced. This, in turn, would reduce cash flow for future growth as well as the assets available to secure financing for part of our capital expenditures. Dependence on Capital Markets Our business involves significant ongoing capital requirements. The rate of production from oil and gas properties generally declines as reserves are depleted. Without the capital to fund ongoing development activities, 10 our proved reserves would decline as oil and gas is produced from our proved developed reserves. Our long term performance and profitability depends not only on developing our existing oil and gas reserves, but also on our ability to find or acquire additional reserves that we can develop and operate efficiently and finance on acceptable terms. Financial Leverage We are substantially leveraged, and our ability to repay or refinance our debt will be subject to our future performance and prospects as well as market and general economic conditions beyond our control. We issued $37 million principal amount of convertible notes in December 2005. They will mature in December 2010 unless previously redeemed by us or converted by the holders into our common stock. We also maintain a credit facility secured by liens on all corporate assets. The borrowing base for the facility was raised from $15 million to $35 million during the first quarter of 2006. We may increase the facility for future acquisitions or capital expenditures. Because our business is capital intensive, we will likely be dependent on additional financing to repay our outstanding long term debt at maturity. There can be no assurance that we will be able to secure the necessary refinancing on acceptable terms. Lack of Dividends on Common Stock We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock. Our current policy is to retain future earnings to finance the acquisition and development of additional oil and gas reserves. Any future determination about the payment of dividends will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon our operating results, financial condition, capital requirements, restrictions in debt instruments, general business conditions and other factors the board of directors deems relevant. If we issue any preferred stock, it will be eligible for dividends prior and in preference to our common stock, when and if declared by the board of directors. Volatility of Market Price for Common Stock The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant volatility in response to variations in results of operations and other factors. In addition, the equity markets in general or in our industry sector may experience wide price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated and disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies, and the trading price of our common stock could be affected by those fluctuations. Affect of Future Sales on Market Price for Common Stock Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock could depress its market price. As of December 31, 2005, there were 21,357,628 shares of our common stock issued and outstanding. If all our convertible notes, stock options and warrants outstanding as of that date are converted or exercised, there will be an additional 6,879,578 shares of our common stock outstanding. Most of them are eligible for public resale without restrictions. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that substantial sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices of the common stock. Listing Requirements for Common Stock To remain eligible for trading on the Nasdaq National Market, we must meet various requirements, including corporate governance standards, specified shareholders’ equity and a market price above $1.00 per share. If our common stock were to be delisted, liquidity in the common stock would be impaired. Any delisting of our common stock would also be an event of default requiring us to redeem our outstanding convertible notes. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Unprofitability of Gold and Silver Properties Our gold and silver properties in Alaska are undeveloped, dormant and unprofitable. To retain our interests in the properties, we must expend funds each year to maintain the validity of our gold and silver exploration rights. We have no plans to develop these properties independently and instead are seeking either a joint venture partner to 11 provide funds for additional exploration of the prospects or a buyer for the properties. Our ability to find a strategic partner or buyer will depend on the anticipated profitability of potential production activities as well as the price of gold and silver, which in turn is affected by factors such as inflation, interest rates, currency rates, geopolitical and other factors beyond our control. We have not derived any revenues from our gold and silver properties and may never be able to realize any production revenues or sale proceeds from the properties. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 