Item 1A: Risk Factors Concentration of loan portfolio The Bank generally invests a large proportion of its assets in loans secured by commercial and residential real estate properties. While we do not expect a substantial decline in real estate values and economic conditions on Long Island and in the New York metropolitan area, a decline in these values or economic activities could have an impact on the value of collateral securing the loans as well as the ability for the repayment of loans. See a further discussion in "Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" under "Loans". The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation have observed that commercial real estate is an area in which some banks have become increasingly concentrated. These agencies support banks serving a vital role in their communities by supplying credit for business and real estate development. However, the agencies are concerned that rising commercial real estate loan concentrations may expose institutions to unanticipated earnings and capital volatility in the event of adverse changes in commercial real estate markets. As a result of this 3 concern, the agencies issued Commercial Real Estate Guidance ("CRE guidance") in December 2006 to ensure that institutions with such concentrations maintain strong risk management practices and appropriate levels of capital. This CRE guidance does not impose any limits on the level of commercial real estate lending made by banks. The Bank has incorporated several actions in lending administration as part of its enhanced credit risk management processes, including the addition of a credit risk manager and the preparation of concentration reports for review and determination risk ratings. Changes in Interest Rates Could Affect Profitability The ability to earn a profit, as is the case for most financial institutions, depends in large part on net interest income, which is the difference between interest income that the Bank earns on its interest-earning assets, such as loans and investments, and the interest expense that the Bank incurs on its interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. The Bank's profitability depends on its ability to manage its assets and liabilities during periods of changing market interest rates. A sustained decrease in market interest rates could adversely affect earnings. When interest rates decline, borrowers may refinance existing loans. Funds received by the Bank as a result of these refinancings would be reinvested at lower rates. Additionally, funds received on matured investment securities may be reinvested in lower yielding instruments. In a period of rising interest rates, the rates paid on interest- bearing deposits could rise more rapidly than the rates earned on interest- earning assets. Geographic Location The Bank's market area is located primarily along the north shore of Long Island, from Port Washington to Wading River. Its customer base also includes the five boroughs of New York City and the greater New York metropolitan area. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. The profitability of the Bank depends on its continued ability to successfully compete. The Bank competes with commercial banks, credit unions, savings banks, insurance companies and brokerage and investment banking firms. Many of the Bank's competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than the Bank and may offer certain services that the Bank does not provide. The Loss of Key Personnel Could Impair the Bank's Future Success The Bank's future success depends in part on the continued service of its executive officers, other key members of management, and its staff, as well as its ability to continue to attract, motivate and retain additional highly qualified employees. The loss of services of key personnel could have an adverse effect on the Bank's business. Highly Regulated Environment The Bank is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the New York State Banking Department, the Federal Reserve and the SEC. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which a financial institution and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the consumer. Recently regulators have intensified their focus on the USA PATRIOT Act's anti-money laundering and Bank Secrecy Act compliance requirements. In order to comply with regulations, guidelines and examination procedures in this area as well as other areas, the Bank has been required to adopt new policies and procedures and to install new systems. The Bank cannot be certain that the policies, procedures and systems in place are flawless and there is no assurance that in every instance the Bank is in full compliance with these requirements. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, may have a material impact on operations. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments None 