Item 1A: Risk Factors An investment in the Company’s common shares is subject to risks inherent in the Company’s business. The material risks and uncertainties that the Company’s management believes affect it are described below. If any of the following risks actually occur, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones facing the Company. There may also be additional risks and uncertainties that the Company’s management is not aware of or focused on or that the Company’s management currently deems immaterial that may also impair the Company’s business operations. The 7 Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made, or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Risks Related to the Company’s Business and Operations Our banking subsidiary is operating under a Consent Agreement with the FDIC and the Banking Department to address lending, credit, capital and related issues The Bank has entered into a Consent Agreement with the FDIC and Banking Department. Under the Consent Agreement, the Bank is required to improve credit administration, loan underwriting and internal loan review processes and maintain an adequate allowance for loan losses. Other required actions include the implementation of plans to reduce classified assets, decrease the Bank’s concentration in commercial real estate loans and increase profitability. The Bank’s payment of dividends and growth in average assets require prior approval of the FDIC and Banking Department. In addition, the Bank is required to maintain no later than June 30, 2010, Tier 1 Capital at least equal to 7% of Total Assets, Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital at least equal to 9% of Total Risk-Weighted Assets and Total Risk-Based Capital at least equal to 11% of Total Risk-Weighted Assets. We expect that our compliance with the Consent Agreement will require the Bank to devote significant management attention and time on an ongoing basis. If we are unable to comply, we could be subject to other regulatory sanctions, including civil money penalties. The Company is subject to the risk of the bank subsidiary not meeting higher capital ratios required by the Consent Agreement Meeting the higher capital ratios required under the Consent Agreement will require the Bank to increase capital, decrease assets or both. Raising capital under a Consent Agreement and during a period of reduced financial performance could result in the Company issuing shares at a low price or paying a high rate of interest for debt instruments that qualify as regulatory capital. Issuance of additional common shares would dilute the percentage ownership interest of the Company’s stockholders and may dilute the book value per share of the Company’s common shares. Issuance of debt at a high rate of interest or decreasing assets could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, the availability of capital at any price is dependent on many factors, including confidence in the economy and financial institutions generally, and it is possible that we will be unable to raise additional capital should we need to. Failure to effectively meet the higher capital ratios could have further adverse consequences for the Bank and the Company and could result in the sale of the Company at a reduced price. Current and future restrictions on the conduct of our business could adversely impact our ability to attract deposits Because we are no longer considered “well capitalized” by our banking regulators, we are, among other restrictions, prohibited from paying rates in excess of 75 basis points above the local market average on deposits of comparable maturity. Effective January 1, 2010, financial institutions that are not well capitalized will be prohibited from paying yields for deposits in excess of 75 basis points above a new national average rate for deposits of comparable maturity, as calculated by the FDIC, except in very limited circumstances where the FDIC permits use of a higher local market rate. This national rate may be lower than the prevailing rates in our local market, and we may be unable to secure the permission of the FDIC to use a local market rate. If restrictions on the rates we are able to pay on deposit accounts negatively impact our ability to compete for deposits in our market area, we may be unable to attract or maintain core deposits, and our liquidity and ability to support demand for loans could be adversely affected. The Company has grown significantly but is not likely to sustain this rate of growth The Company’s assets have increased $1,757 million, or 200.11%, from $878 million at December 31, 2005 to $2,635 million at December 31, 2009, primarily due to organic loan growth funded by retail deposit growth. During that same time period, the Company’s deposits increased $1,378 million, or 197.70%, from $697 million to $2,075 million largely from opening new branches. The Company’s recent growth has weakened its financial condition and placed significant demands on its operations and management. The Company’s future success depends on the ability of its officers and other key employees to continue to implement and improve its operational, credit, financial, management and other internal risk controls and processes and its reporting systems and procedures, and to manage a larger number of client relationships. While under the Consent Agreement, the Bank will not be able to sustain its recent rate of growth. Any growth in quarterly average assets, while the Bank is under the Consent Agreement, requires prior approval of the FDIC and Banking Department. 8 The Bank is planning approximately four new branches that it intends to open within the next 12 to 15 months. There are considerable costs involved in opening branches and new branches generally require a period of time to generate sufficient revenues to offset their costs, especially in areas in which the Bank does not have an established presence. The Bank’s expenses could be further increased if it encounters delays in the opening of any of its new branches. Growth restriction while under the Consent Agreement may make it difficult to reach profitability in new branches. In the future, the Company may need to raise additional capital to support its continued growth. The Company’s ability to raise additional capital will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside its control, and on the Company’s financial performance. If the Company cannot raise additional capital when needed and on favorable terms, its ability to grow could be materially impaired. The Bank is subject to risk related to the concentration of its loan portfolio The Bank generally invests a large proportion of its assets in loans secured by commercial and residential real estate properties on Long Island and in the New York metropolitan area. While the Company does not expect further substantial declines in real estate values and economic conditions on Long Island and in the New York metropolitan area, further declines in these values or economic activities are possible and could have an impact on the value of collateral securing the loans as well as the ability for the repayment of loans. In addition, at December 31, 2009, land and construction loans represented 17% of the Bank’s loan portfolio. See a further discussion in “Item 6: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under “Loans.” The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the FDIC have observed that commercial real estate (“CRE”) is an area in which some banks have become increasingly concentrated. These agencies support banks serving a vital role in their communities by supplying credit for business and real estate development. However, the agencies are concerned that rising CRE concentrations may expose institutions to unanticipated earnings and capital volatility in the event of adverse changes in CRE markets. As a result of this concern, the agencies issued Commercial Real Estate Guidance (“CRE Guidance”) in December 2006 to ensure that institutions with such concentrations maintain strong risk management practices and appropriate levels of capital. This CRE Guidance does not impose any limits on the level of CRE lending made by banks, however, the Consent Agreement requires the Bank to reduce its concentration in CRE lending. In addition, the Bank is required to improve credit administration, loan underwriting and internal loan review processes. The Bank is subject to the risk of having to develop new lines of lending The Bank’s lending is nearly all real estate secured. FDIC and Banking Department concerns regarding CRE concentrations focus on the Bank’s land and construction loans, multifamily mortgages and non owner occupied commercial mortgages. These three loan classifications total 79.1% of the total loan portfolio. The Consent Agreement requires the Bank to reduce its concentration in CRE lending. A reduction in CRE lending may require the Bank to develop new lines of lending. Many of the Bank’s competitors in other lines of lending, such as consumer credit cards and auto loans, have lower cost structures due to their size. Competitors may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing than the Bank can offer. The Bank’s ability to continue to compete successfully depends on developing products and services to meet customer needs and demands. The Bank is subject to lending risk There are inherent risks associated with the Bank’s lending activities. These risks include, among other things, the impact of changes in interest rates and changes in the economic conditions in the markets where the Bank operates as well as those across the State of New York and the United States. Increases in interest rates and/or weakening economic conditions could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing these loans. The Bank also is subject to various laws and regulations that affect its lending activities. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject the Bank to regulatory enforcement action that could result in the assessment of significant civil monetary penalties against it. Continued or further declines in the value of certain investment securities could require write-downs, which would reduce our earnings At December 31, 2009, gross unrealized losses in our investment portfolio equaled $3.707 million. We have concluded these unrealized losses are temporary in nature as of that date. However, a continued decline in the value of these securities or other factors could result in an other than temporary impairment (“OTTI”) write-down, which would reduce our earnings. A substantial decline in the value of our Federal Home Loan Bank of New York common stock may adversely affect our financial condition. 9 We own common stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York (“FHLBNY”) in order to qualify for membership in the Federal Home Loan Bank system, which enables us to borrow funds under the Federal Home Loan Bank advance program. The carrying value and fair market value of our FHLBNY common stock was $18.353 million as of December 31, 2009. During 2009, we received $0.784 million in dividends from the FHLBNY. Recent published reports indicate that certain member banks of the Federal Home Loan Bank system may be subject to asset quality risks that could result in materially lower regulatory capital levels. In an extreme situation, it is possible that the capitalization of a Federal Home Loan Bank, including the FHLBNY, could be substantially diminished or reduced to zero. Consequently, given that there is no market for our FHLBNY common stock, we believe that there is a risk that our investment could be deemed other than temporarily impaired at some time in the future. If this occurs, it may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If the capitalization of the FHLBNY is substantially diminished and if it reduces or suspends its dividend, our liquidity may be adversely impaired if we are not able to obtain an alternative source of funding. The Bank’s allowance for loan losses may be insufficient The Bank maintains an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for probable incurred loan losses charged to expense, and represents the Bank’s best estimate of probable losses that may be incurred within the existing portfolio of loans. The allowance, in the judgment of management, is necessary to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. The level of the allowance reflects management’s continuing evaluation of industry concentrations; specific credit risks; loan loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic, political and regulatory conditions and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for probable incurred loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires the Bank to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of the Bank’s control, may require an increase in the allowance for probable incurred loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review the Bank’s allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for probable incurred loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge offs, based on judgments different than those of management. In addition, if charge offs in future periods exceed the allowance for probable incurred loan losses, the Bank will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for probable incurred loan losses. Any increases in the allowance for probable incurred loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and, in turn, capital, and may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. See the section captioned “Application of Critical Accounting Policies in “Item 6: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”. Changes in interest rates could affect profitability The ability to earn a profit, as is the case for most financial institutions, depends in large part on net interest income, which is the difference between interest income that the Bank earns on its interest earning assets, such as loans and investments, and the interest expense that the Bank incurs on its interest bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. The Bank’s profitability depends on its ability to manage its assets and liabilities during periods of changing market interest rates. A sustained decrease in market interest rates could adversely affect earnings. When interest rates decline, borrowers may refinance existing loans, sometimes even in spite of prepayment penalties. Funds received by the Bank as a result of customer refinancing would be reinvested at lower rates. Additionally, funds received on matured investment securities may be reinvested in lower yielding instruments. In a period of rising interest rates, the rates paid on interest bearing deposits could rise more rapidly than the rates earned on interest earning assets. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Company’s control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve Board. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest that the Bank receives on loans and securities and the amount of interest that the Bank pays on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect the Bank’s ability to originate loans and obtain deposits. Any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. See the section captioned “Item 6A: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk”. The Company relies on dividends from its subsidiaries for most of its revenue 10 The Company is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. The Company receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends from the Bank. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on the Company’s common shares and interest on its trust preferred debt obligations. Various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank and certain non-bank subsidiaries may pay to the Company. In addition, the Company’s right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. In the event that the Bank is unable to pay dividends to the Company for an extended period of time, the Company may not be able to service debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on its common shares. Under the Consent Agreement, the Bank’s payment of dividends requires prior approval of the FDIC and Banking Department. In the event the FDIC and Banking Department are unwilling to approve a dividend from the Bank, the inability to receive dividends from the Bank could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. See a further discussion in “Item 6: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under “Liquidity.” The Bank operates in a highly competitive industry and market area The Bank’s market area is located primarily on Long Island, from Port Washington to Wading River, and includes a branch on Seventh Avenue in Manhattan. Its customer base also includes the five boroughs of New York City and the greater metropolitan area. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. The profitability of the Bank depends on its continued ability to successfully compete. The Bank faces substantial competition in all areas of its operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources. Such competitors primarily include national, regional, and community banks within the various markets in which the Bank operates. Additionally, various out-of-state banks have entered or have announced plans to enter the market areas in which the Bank currently operates. The Bank also faces competition from many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings and loans, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance and investment companies, factoring companies and other financial intermediaries. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking. In addition, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. Many of the Bank’s competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Additionally, due to their size, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than the Bank can. The Bank’s ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things: • The ability to develop, maintain and build upon long term customer relationships based on top quality service, high ethical standards and safe, sound assets. • The ability to expand its market position. • The scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands. • The rate at which the Bank introduces new products and services relative to its competitors. • Customer satisfaction with the Bank’s level of service. • Industry and general economic trends. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken the Bank’s competitive position. In addition, under the Consent Agreement the Bank’s growth in quarterly average assets requires prior approval of the FDIC and Banking Department. Limits on growth could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. The loss of key personnel could impair the Company’s future success The Company’s future success depends in part on the continued service of its executive officers and other key members of management and its staff, as well as its ability to continue to attract, motivate and retain additional highly qualified employees. The loss of services of key personnel could have an adverse effect on the Bank’s business because of their skills, knowledge of the Company’s market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. The Company does not currently have employment agreements or non-competition agreements with any of its executive officers, however, the Company does have change in control agreements in place for selected officers. The Company operates in a highly regulated environment The Company and the Bank are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Banking Department, the FDIC and the SEC. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which a 11 financial institution and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the consumer, not security holders. Regulations affect the Bank’s lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, and dividend policy and growth, among other things. Recently, regulators have intensified their focus on the USA PATRIOT Act’s anti-money laundering and Bank Secrecy Act compliance requirements. In order to comply with regulations, guidelines and examination procedures in this area as well as other areas, the Bank has been required to adopt new policies and procedures and to install new systems. The Bank cannot be certain that the policies, procedures and systems in place are flawless, and there is no assurance that in every instance the Bank is in full compliance with these requirements. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil monetary penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations or legislation, may have a material impact on operations. Such changes could subject the Company to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products the Bank may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. The Company’s controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented The Company regularly reviews and updates its internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the Company’s controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the Company’s customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of its information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of the Company’s information systems could damage its reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject the Company to additional regulatory scrutiny or expose the Company to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. The Bank continually encounters technological change The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. The Bank’s future success depends, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in the Bank’s operations. Many of the Bank’s competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. The Bank may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on the Bank’s business and, in turn, its financial condition and results of operations. The Company is subject to claims and litigation pertaining to fiduciary responsibility From time to time, customers make claims and take legal action pertaining to the Bank’s performance of its fiduciary responsibilities. Whether customer claims and legal action related to the Bank’s performance of its fiduciary responsibilities are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to the Company, they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of the Bank and its products and services as well as impact customer demand for those products and services. Any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. The Bank is subject to environmental liability risk associated with lending activities 12 A significant portion of the Bank’s loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, the Bank may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, the Bank may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require the Bank to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit the Bank’s ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase the Bank’s exposure to environmental liability. Although the Bank has policies and procedures to perform an environmental review before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other external events could significantly impact the Company’s business Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on the Company’s ability to conduct business. Global climate change may increase the frequency of severe weather and may cause sea levels to rise, which could have negative effects on real estate values on Long Island, the five boroughs of New York City and the greater metropolitan area. Such events could affect the stability of the Bank’s deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause the Company to incur additional expenses. Although the Company has established disaster recovery policies and procedures, the occurrence of any such event in the future could have a material adverse effect on its business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. Risks Associated with the Company’s Common Shares The Company may issue additional common shares or equity derivative securities that will dilute the percentage ownership interest of existing stockholders and may dilute the book value per share of its common shares and adversely affect the terms on which the Company may obtain additional capital The Company’s authorized capital currently includes 35,000,000 common shares and 1,000,000 preferred shares. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had 14,855,482 common shares outstanding, including 3,000,000 common shares that it issued in a public offering on May 20, 2009. There were no preferred shares outstanding as of December 31, 2009. In addition, as of the date hereof, the Company has the ability to issue 817,078 common shares pursuant to share-based awards that may be granted in the future under its existing 2007 Stock Compensation Plan. The Company has issued 38,125 and 22,000 common shares under the 2007 Stock Compensation Plan to date in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The Company issued 17,160 common shares under a predecessor plan in 2007. On July 27, 2009 and June 29, 2009, the Company issued Warrants to purchase common shares to each purchaser of subordinated notes issued by the Bank on the same dates. The Company issued a total of 475,000 warrants, which may not be exercised until June 29, 2010 and if not exercised are void after June 29, 2016. The Warrants are exercisable at $11.50 per share. Subject to applicable NASDAQ rules, the Company’s board generally has the authority, without action by or vote of the stockholders, to issue all or part of any authorized but unissued common shares for any corporate purpose, including issuance of equity-based incentives under or outside of the Company’s 2007 Stock Compensation Plan. The Company may seek additional equity capital in the future as it develops its business and expands its operations or to meet the Consent Agreement capital ratio requirements. Any issuance of additional common shares will dilute the percentage ownership interest of the Company’s stockholders and may dilute the book value per share of the Company’s common shares. The Company’s directors, executive officers and employee stock ownership plan own a substantial amount of the Company’s common shares and may significantly impact the outcome of future shareholder votes As of December 31, 2009, the Company’s executive officers and directors and their family members together beneficially owned approximately 4.08% of the issued and outstanding shares of the Company’s common shares. In addition, as of December 31, 2009, the Company’s employee stock ownership plan beneficially owned approximately 2.74% of the Company’s issued and outstanding common shares. As a result, these persons, including employees who are participants in the Company’s employee stock ownership plan, have the ability to exert significant influence on various matters, including the election of directors, changes in the size and composition of the board of directors and mergers and other business combinations or strategic transactions involving the Company. In addition, the concentration of voting power in the hands of those individuals, as well as the anti-takeover provisions contained in the Company’s certificate of incorporation and by-laws, Shareholder Protection Rights Plan and New York law, could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of the 13 Company, even if the change of control would benefit the Company’s other stockholders. A perception in the investment community of an anti-takeover environment at the Company could cause investors to value the Company’s shares lower than in the absence of such a perception. The Company’s share price can be volatile Share price volatility may make it more difficult for you to sell your common shares when you want and at prices you find attractive. The Company’s share price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors including, among other things: • Our financial condition, performance, creditworthiness and prospects. • The credit, mortgage and housing markets, the markets for securities relating to mortgages or housing, and developments and news reports with respect to financial institutions generally. • Actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations. • The rate at which the new branch offices we open attain profitability, if at all. • Our past and present dividend practice. • Recommendations by securities analysts. • Operating and share price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to the Company. • News reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry. • Perceptions in the marketplace regarding the Company and/or its competitors. • New technology used or services offered by competitors. • Significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving the Company or its competitors. • Failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions. • Future sales of our equity or equity-related securities. • Changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, stock, commodity or real estate valuations or volatility and other geopolitical, regulatory or judicial events. • Changes in government regulations. • Geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts. • General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, could also cause the Company’s share price to decrease regardless of operating results. • Regulatory requirements, including failure to comply with the terms of the Consent Agreement. • Changes in legislation, regulations or accounting rules. The trading volume in the Company’s common shares is less than that of other larger financial services companies Although the Company’s common shares are listed for trading on The NASDAQ Global Select Market, the trading volume in its common shares is less than that of other larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of the Company’s common shares at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which the Company has no control. Given the lower trading volume of the Company’s common shares, significant sales of the Company’s common shares, or the expectation of these sales, could cause the Company’s share price to fall. An investment in the Company’s common shares is not an insured deposit The Company’s common shares are not a bank deposit and, therefore, are not insured against loss by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. The Company’s Certificate of Incorporation, By-Laws and Shareholders’ Protection Rights Agreement, as well as certain banking laws, may have an anti-takeover effect Provisions of the Company’s certificate of incorporation and by-laws, federal and state banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, and its Shareholder Protection Rights Plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire the Company, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to the Company’s stockholders. The combination of these provisions effectively inhibits a non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common shares. 14 The Company’s ability to pay cash dividends is limited, and it may be unable to pay future dividends even if it desires to do so The Company’s ability to pay cash dividends may be limited by regulatory restrictions, by the Bank’s ability to pay cash dividends to the holding company and by the Company’s need to maintain sufficient capital to support its operations. The ability of the Bank to pay cash dividends to the holding company is limited by the terms of the Consent Agreement as well as its obligations to maintain sufficient capital and by other restrictions on its cash dividends that are applicable to New York State commercial banks and banks that are regulated by the FDIC. If the Bank is not permitted to pay cash dividends to the holding company, it is unlikely that the Company would be able to pay cash dividends on its common shares or interest on its trust preferred debt obligations. Risks Associated with the Company’s Industry The earnings of financial services companies are significantly affected by general business and economic conditions The Company’s operations and profitability are impacted by general business and economic conditions in the United States and abroad. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, money supply, political issues, legislative and regulatory changes, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, broad trends in industry and finance, and the strength of the U.S. economy and the local economies in which the Company operates, all of which are beyond the Company’s control. Deterioration in economic conditions could result in an increase in loan delinquencies and nonperforming assets, decreases in loan collateral values and a decrease in demand for the Bank’s products and services, among other things, any of which could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect the Company Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. The Company has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default by our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Financial services companies depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, the Bank may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports and other financial information. The Bank may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports or other financial information could have a material adverse impact on the Bank’s business and, in turn, its financial condition and results of operations. Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions Technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks through alternative methods. For example, consumers can now maintain funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits in brokerage accounts or mutual funds. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as “disintermediation,” could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments None 