Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this Report. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which reflect management’s opinions only as of the date hereof. We undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to these forward-looking statements. PART I ITEM 1. DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS Overview Action Products International, Inc. is historically a global manufacturer and distributor of brand-focused educational toys and activities within the specialty toy industry. Originally incorporated in New York in 1977, the company relocated its operations and state of incorporation to Florida in 1980 and went public on the NASDAQ stock market in 1984. The company began as a distributor of education-oriented toys, children’s books, stationery and souvenirs, supplying to museum gift shops exclusively. In 1997 a new business model was developed around our toy and children’s products business to develop a diversified portfolio of company designed and acquired brands of products while expanding sales distribution to include broader retail outlets. Today our “Toy & Craft” business designs, manufactures and markets a diversified portfolio of educational, positive and non-violent brands of toys, crafts, gifts and activity products, to various retailing channels such as independent toy stores, gift stores, craft and hobby stores, specialty and discount retail chains, museums, zoos, aquariums, theme parks and attractions primarily in the United States and Canada. Since moving away from distribution for other manufacturers and publishers, we developed new proprietary products through internal development, licensing and corporate acquisitions. 4 Our website offers our consumers a well rounded shopping experience helping to explain the play values and importance of Action Toys. While at www.ActionToysInc.com consumers can view online videos, learn more about each product, review their educational content and play value and locate a retailer in their area or make a purchase online. The second phase of www.ActionToys Inc.com is expected to be ready in 2010 and is planned to include an online interactive "Fun Zone" that will include online games, free downloads, and value added content. Recent Events In 2008, we pursued additional lines of business, particularly in children’s book development and publishing and later the home health care industry to complement our current distribution and sales network. This, we hoped, was through the acquiring of BE Overseas LLC and the change of management – principally appointing Neil Swartz, one of the owners of BE Overseas, as our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board. As part of the acquisition of BE Overseas, Craig Sizer, the other controlling shareholder of BE Overseas, agreed to invest $500,000 in our company. Unfortunately, neither transaction was successful. Our acquisition of BE Overseas has to date resulted in no significant furtherance of the home health care product sales on our behalf at great cost. There are currently no existing lines of home health products or other significant lines of business within BE Overseas Limited. Mr. Sizer has, to date, failed to complete his investment of $500,000, of which $300,000 remains unpaid. On March 19, 2009, Neil Swartz, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, resigned from the company following the resignation of Robert Burrows, our Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer. Both Mr. Swartz and Mr. Burrows resigned without notice. At the time of their resignations, our cash position was essentially zero and our current asset based lender has declined to permit additional advances although we believe we have more than adequate eligible inventory and receivables and other securitized collateral to justify advances. In light of the current dilemma, our board of directors rehired a former Chief Executive Officer and Chairperson, Warren Kaplan, to act as our Principle Officer & Restructuring Officer to pursue all avenues for growth, including improving cash flow, pursuing debt and equity financing and identifying strategic alternatives deemed in the best interest of our stakeholders. Since his appointment on March 20th, Mr. Kaplan has met with our principle lender, has made a short-term interest-free loan to the company for payment of sales commissions, has recruited an experienced sales management professional, negotiated reductions in our occupancy lease and decreased payroll and other operating expense. We are pursuing various financing options, mergers and disposition of non-core business assets. Due to prevailing economic conditions and recent losses sustained by our business, we cannot make any assurances that we will achieve any of these goals. Further, we are currently considering legal remedies with respect to Messrs. Swartz, Sizer and Burrows with regard to breaches of contracts, misrepresentations and breaches of fiduciary duties. 5 For his full time efforts as our Restructuring or Principal Officer Mr. Kaplan is to be compensated $52,000 annually. The company has reported that it has been improving its collections of past due accounts, and building its account receivable through the sale of existing inventories. However, due to the structure of our working capital line of credit, described elsewhere herein, we are temporarily unable to get new sold goods (backlog orders) released from factories and ports. Management believes that should it successfully achieve financial liquidity, the ultimate path to maximizing our current market position encompasses the following assets and operational strengths: · Accountable sales and brand marketing management · Eight award winning educational toy brands · 32,000 sq ft company owned distribution center · Outsourced/scalable manufacturing process · Leverage over 1.5 million units sold annually with cross-selling materials · Currently sold in 2,000+ retail stores across USA · 500+ location-based edutainment venues: Museums, Zoos, Aquariums, Theme-parks & Attractions · Specialty & Department Retail Chains: Toy’s R’ Us, Barnes & Noble, JoAnn’s, Michaels, Target, and others, as well as reestablishing international distributor sales. Our operational focus for executing this strategy will be based on the following priorities: · · Maximize existing relationships with retailers while opening new channels · Promote all products to all customer segments to generate additional revenue opportunities · Regain leadership in the Educational toy children’s segment · Create a multi-media on-line experience for our consumers to entertain, educate and generate revenue · Build targeted retailer and consumer programs to maximize selling opportunities year round · Find other opportunities in the consumer products segment that can take advantage of existing infrastructure, resources and experience . Find opportunities to capitalize on BE Overseas concept and website. Our Strategy While working to correct short term financial and administrative obstacles described herein, we are working aggressively to implement strategies for expansion through mergers, acquisitions, distribution agreements as well as to expand our current toy and craft product business while leveraging our current tangible and intangible assets and our distribution and sales network. Our goal is to regain revenue growth in the educational toy and children’s segment and transform the company into a global holding company that generates shareholder value in one or more well-established or growth-stage companies. 6 Business Divisions Action Toys, Inc. and Curiosity Kits, Inc: Our toy and craft operation primarily designs, markets and sells educational toy products under the umbrella name “Action Toys™,” formerly known as “Action Products®.” Marketing and promotion programs focus on individual brands such as CURIOSITY KITS®, SPACE VOYAGERS®, CLIMB@TRON™, I DIG DINOSAURS®, WOODKITS™ and PLAY & STORE™. Products include premium wooden toys, action figures, play-sets, activity kits and various other playthings with a strategic emphasis on non-violent, educational and fun topics such as space, dinosaurs, science, and nature. Our top contributing brands are I Dig Dinosaurs® (and related), Curiosity Kits®, Space Voyagers®, and Play & Store™. The Curiosity Kits® brand acquired April 2004 contributed $1.3 million to our net sales in 2008, and was revamped and reintroduced in mid-2008. The EarthLore® I Dig Dinosaurs® brand continues to be a strong brand group and contributed over $1.2 million to net sales in 2008. Our other brands, including Jay Jay the Jet Plane, Drop Zone Extreme™, Space Voyagers® and Play & Store™, contributed the remaining $2.9 million net sales in 2008. Market Opportunity While distribution systems continue to change at an increased rate, the consumer trends indicate increasingly knowledgeable parents and child caring adults. These more informed purchasers seek products and services that treat their children as learners rather than merely as consumers. There is increasing emphasis on promoting interest in, and encouraging appreciation of, education, “edutainment” natural sciences and our environment. There has been an upward trend in home activities noted in reports on do-it-yourself and at- home or “nesting” activities. These trends serve to drive increased spending on educational products and redefine markets for our toy and activity markets. We believe these trends provide our company a significant market opportunity The second phase of our www.ActionToysInc website expected in late 2009 will be in concert with the growing dependency on the Internet –a new conduit into ‘speak’ directly with consumers regarding their preferences, our products and services, and their availability as it creates a learning environment using and promoting our products. The principal markets for our toy and craft division’s products are consumers who purchase from our customer base of specialty retailers, toy stores, toy departments of national and regional chain retailers, museums and attractions, parent/teacher stores, mail order catalogs and increasingly the Internet. Our products are currently aimed primarily at the preschool and elementary school age categories. Our long-term goal is to capture a growing share of these markets in the U.S. and internationally. 7 Several of our product lines which include I Dig™, Curiosity Kits® and Space Voyagers® appeal to the international consumer. We expect our foreign sales to grow in the future as we continue to execute on globalizing our testing and packaging and establishing distribution agreements with foreign customers. We continue to seek new businesses to acquire which will expand our revenue potential and better leverage our fixed cost base and our expertise, contacts and relationships. Our Market Position Unlike promotional toys, Action Products brands emphasize quality and are a healthy alternative for consumers looking to avoid the negative influences of less positive play patterns and the exploitative, short-lived aspects of promotional toys. We believe we are well positioned to capitalize on the increased worldwide emphasis on education, “edutainment” and the trend towards encouraging children’s interest in positive play and their surroundings. We believe our innovative products meet this increasingly important market need. Our Products Action Toys Inc. Our products consist of toys and activity kits for children packaged and marketed under a diversified portfolio of brands. This mitigates the risks associated with single brand strategies and builds influence with our distribution channels as a provider of multiple best selling product lines designed to create long-term sales streams for our retail dealers and us. We believe creating brand equity amongst a core of diversified brands is important to our long term success and in the best interest of our shareholders. Following are descriptions of several of our key brands: Curiosity Kits® Acquired in 2004, Curiosity Kits a leading brand in the children’s arts & crafts segment, encompasses a variety of craft activity kits, with everything from innovative science kits to activities with sculpting, drawing and painting for self-expression. Curiosity Kits offers high quality materials, tools, and the information needed to imagine and create lasting treasures while learning and having fun. In 2007 we reestablished a creative relationship with the original creator of the brand and introduced over twenty new products in 2008. Curiosity Kits has received several toy or craft awards including in 2006 the Dr Toy’s 100 Best in 2006, I DigTM Excavation Adventures Our I Dig™ Excavation Adventures let children imagine they are modern day dinosaur hunters, archaeologists and treasure seekers. Using steel tools, children dig through dust free “rock” to unearth replica dinosaur bones, buried treasure and Egyptian artifacts. This line was expanded in 2007 with the introduction of two I Dig™ Adventures: an Arrowhead and Gold Rush dig. New for 2008 were more dinosaurs and other archaeological themes with the core I Dig scientific slant, and in development are some very imaginative themes with greater emphasis on the fun aspect of the digs. 8 Space Voyagers® Our Space Voyagers® line combines vehicles from space programs of the past, present, and near future. This line of astronaut action figures and accessories is designed to appeal to both children and parents on two levels. The products are physically designed, decorated and packaged to appeal to the child’s sense of “cool” state-of-the-art figure based play, with scenarios of risk and heroism. The absence of violence and the inherently educational attributes of space exploration, science and discovery appeal to a wide variety of consumers. Climb@Tron™ Climb@trons™ are interplanetary robots that climb up, down, around, and even upside down on smooth surfaces like windows, mirrors and cabinets using powerful suction cups and vacuum technology and auto reverse action to keep Climb@Tron™ going even after bumping into barriers. This is a consistent seller for Action Products in museums and attractions. Kidz Workshop™ Our Kidz Workshop™ line includes the award winning EZ Build Projects™ that promote confidence-building with its fun-to-assemble ease where one tool does it all; Kidz Workshop™ fits the bill for children ages 7 and up. EZ Build Projects are winners of toy product awards. The company no longer seeks licenses but rather seeks to sell licenses. Licensing We became licensees in December 2001 obtaining the rights to manufacture and market certain toy lines under the Jay Jay The Jet Plane™ name. In January 2006 we renewed with a new licensing agreement which we opted to allow to expire in December 2008, however can access thereafter on an as-sold basis with cooperation from the licensor. In May of 2007 our company entered into a merchandising license agreement with the American Museum of Natural History to produce and sell its Ology brand products. The agreement expires June 30, 2010 and contains sales quotas and minimum royalty payments due for each annual period. It is possible this arrangement will end in 2009. In November 2007 the company entered into a product development and royalty agreement with a consultant to revamp marketing presentation and packaging of existing Curiosity Kits products and produce new product concepts for the Curiosity Kits brand. The agreement expired September 30, 2008 and provided for potential royalty payments based on achievement above certain sales levels on annual aggregate net sales for the life of the products specified in the agreement. In December 2008, the company entered into a settlement agreement terminating the consulting agreement and eliminating royalty payments. Manufacturing, Logistics and Other Operations Our manufacturing and operations strategy is designed to maximize the use of outsourced product manufacturing services and to concentrate our internal resources on product development, sales and marketing. We believe our outsourcing strategy also enhances the scalability of our manufacturing efforts. We use several OEM contract manufacturers to source components and build finished products to our specifications. We currently use approximately 25 contract manufacturers based on their technical and production capabilities and matched to particular products to achieve cost and quality efficiencies. They are located in Hong Kong and China. 9 During 2008 and 2007 our largest single manufacturer supplied 36% and 25% respectively, of our products and our top three manufacturers combined supplied a total of 64% and 60% respectively. We believe other manufacturers are available to us should any of our significant manufacturers, including our largest manufacturer, be unable or unwilling to continue to manufacture our products for us. Based on our net sales in 2008, major retailers and international distributors took title to approximately 2%of our products directly from our manufacturing facilities in Asia. However, the majority of our product is shipped directly to our warehouse in Ocala, Florida and is later shipped to meet the demands of our major U.S. retailers and other retailers and distributors throughout the U.S. and Canada. Marketing, Sales and Advertising We exhibit our product lines at toy, gift and related industry trade shows, the most important trade show is the American International Toy Fair held in New York City each February. In January 2007 we held our debut exhibit at the International trade fair of the Craft & Hobby Association, to positive reviews. We sell our product lines through a network of manufacturer representative firms and an internal, direct-sales department. Our direct sales team focuses on selling to our original customer base in the attraction and museum categories. Our sales department includes a customer service team that manages and supports our retailers and the manufacturer representative firms with marketing collateral, product information, order processing and selected customer presentations. We capitalize on strategic marketing campaigns, point of purchase displays and creative package design to build brand equity and promote product sell-through. We partner with our retail customers nationally to sponsor I Dig™ Dinosaurs Play Days, featuring a dinosaur dig site allowing groups of children to participate in a live product demonstration. We also promote an in-store Woodkits Fixture Program, placing new merchandise racks in retail outlets throughout the U.S. and Canada. Retailers ordering a prescribed assortment and quantity of wood kit products are eligible for this program. Trade advertising remained a core marketing tool in 2008. We placed ads throughout the year in trade publications including Playthings, The Toy Book and publications of the American Specialty Toy Retailers Association (ASTRA) ) as well as consumer catalogs published by retailers and advertising cooperative groups such as Learning Express, and The Good Toy Group. 10 Sales and Distribution Our distribution strategy is focused on the specialty retail and selected mass-market channels. This includes selectively differentiating the products we distribute through each channel to address the divergent pricing, packaging and merchandising requirements of customers in the specialty and mass market channels. We service customers in all fifty U.S. states and the District of Columbia, and export to a number of foreign countries including the United Kingdom, Spain, Canada and Germany. Our management focuses its efforts on growing our customer base by increasing our penetration and presence in new and existing distribution channels. Museum stores and attractions throughout the U.S. and around the world served as our primary customer base since the inception of our company. While this niche provided us with a solid foundation for growth, we expanded our distribution to national toy stores, specialty retailers and other available retail outlets. We have a diversified customer base including some of the major toy retailers in the U.S. and Canada. The ten largest customers accounted for approximately 32% of our net sales in 2008. Our largest single customer accounted for approximately 7% of our total net sales. Our sales team seeks to work in conjunction with store buyers from our key retailers to forecast demand for our products, develop the store floor footprint, secure retail shelf space for our products and agree upon pricing components, including cooperative advertising allowances. The large retail chains generally provide us with a preliminary forecast of their expected purchases of our products. While these and subsequent forecasts are not contractually binding, they provide important feedback that we use in our planning process throughout the year. We work closely with our key retailers during the year to establish and revise our expected demand forecasts and plan our production and delivery needs accordingly. Most retailers issue purchase orders to us, as they need product. Based on these purchase orders, we prepare shipments for delivery through various methods. For large retail chains, we generally deliver our products directly to these retailers’ warehouses from our third-party manufacturing factories. For our smaller retailers, we generally ship our products to our warehouse in Florida, and from there to the retailers’ respective locations. We sell to smaller volume retail stores through a combination of sales representatives and direct salespeople. With the launch of our upgraded website in December 2008 we offer our consumers a more rounded shopping experience helping to explain the play values and importance of Action Toys. While at www.ActionToysInc.com consumers can view online videos, learn more about each product, review their educational content and play value and locate a retailer in their area or make a purchase online. International Operations, Sales and Manufacturing Overall revenues from our international sales represented approximately $0.3 million or 5% of our total revenues in 2008 and $0.4 million or 6% in 2007. Slightly less than 85% of international sales were to Canada and the United Kingdom. Revenues from other international customers still represent a limited percentage of our total revenues. 11 Although we have a formal distribution agreement for The United Kingdom, we sell other international accounts and distributors on a direct basis. In general, international sales are subject to inherent risks including, but not limited to, transportation delays and interruptions, political and economic disruptions, the imposition of tariffs and import and export controls, changes in government policies, cultural differences affecting product demands and the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws.) Our products are produced by approximately 25 outside manufacturing companies in the U.S., Hong Kong and China, and are imported directly by us as finished goods. Though we did experience some delays in shipment in the fall of 2002 due to a prolonged work stoppage at 28 west-coast shipping ports, the effect was mainly a delay in sales and over the long term did not have a materially adverse effect on our business. We do not expect this event to reoccur any time soon. We experience minimal currency risk because these foreign sourcing transactions are conducted using U.S. dollars. We believe the capacity of our facilities and the supply of completed products we purchase from unaffiliated manufacturers are adequate to meet the foreseeable demand for the product lines we market. Over a period of time, our reliance on external sources of manufacturing can be shifted to alternative sources of supply should such change be necessary. If we were prevented from obtaining products from a substantial number of our current Far East suppliers due to political, labor or other factors beyond our control, our operations would be disrupted while alternative sources of products were secured. The imposition of trade sanctions by the U.S. against a class of products imported by us could significantly increase the cost of importing our products into the U.S. Competition Our business is highly competitive and we compete for shelf space with various toy manufacturers, importers and distributors including Leapfrog with approximately $450 million educational toy sales; Learning Curve with over $100 million in sales to specialty retailers; Jakks Pacific which keys its growth to acquisitions; and a number of smaller companies primarily having single product lines and often privately owned. Our ability to compete successfully is based upon our core competencies, including our experience in conceptualizing and developing quality toys that are themed as non-violent and educational, our unique ability to perform a wide range of specialized “same day” shipment on most domestic orders and outstanding customer service. Our manufacturer representative firms and in-house sales professionals maintain regular and close contact with direct customers. Our reputation, customer service and unique brand offerings enable us to build and maintain customer loyalty. 12 Product Design & Development The company works to refresh and redesign existing toy product lines and to develop innovative new toy product lines. During 2008 and 2007 we spent $363,000 and $259,800, respectively, in connection with the design and development of new products. Intellectual Property Our products are sold and protected under trademarks, service marks, trade names and copyrights, and a number of those products are produced using a patented method owned by us. We consider our intellectual property rights to be important assets in that they provide product recognition and protection. Our products are also protected in as many other countries as allowed by trademark, copyright and patent laws to the extent that such protection is available and meaningful. We currently believe our rights to these properties are adequately protected, but we cannot assure you that our rights can be successfully asserted in the future or that such rights will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. Government Regulation Our toys are subject to the provisions of the Consumer Product Safety Act, the Federal Hazardous Substances Act and the Flammable Fabrics Act, and all of the regulations promulgated hereunder. The Consumer Product Safety Act and the Federal Hazardous Substances Act enable the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) to exclude from the market consumer products that fail to comply with applicable product safety regulations or otherwise create a substantial risk of injury, and articles that contain excessive amounts of a banned hazardous substance. The Flammable Fabrics Act enables the CPSC to regulate and enforce flammability standards for fabrics used in consumer products. The CPSC may also require the repurchase by the manufacturer of articles that are banned. Similar laws exist in some states and cities and in various international markets. Our products are rated according to the American Society of Testing and Materials (ASTM) safety protocol adopted by the United States and the EN-71 safety protocol adopted by the European Community. In addition, we expect to certify our products according to the Japanese Toy Association safety criteria for consumer products. We also voluntarily comply with certain standards established by the ASTM. Although compliance with this much stricter standard is completely at the discretion of the manufacturer, it is our firm policy that our toys meet this superior level of safety. We maintain a quality control program to ensure product safety compliance with the various federal, state and international requirements. Our membership in the Toy Manufacturer’s Association provides an important resource to remain informed of the latest safety guidelines. Notwithstanding the foregoing, there can be no assurance that all of our products are or will be hazard free. Any material product recall could have an adverse effect on us, depending on the product, and could affect sales of our other products. 13 Personnel As of December 31, 2008, we had 29 employees worldwide, including two executive officers, seven sales and customer support personnel, three marketing and product development personnel, seven distribution personnel and ten administrative and procurement personnel. We offer our employees a benefits package that includes health and life insurance plans, a 401(k) plan and an employee-contributed IRC Section 125 health plan. None of our employees are represented by a labor union or are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We face a number of substantial risks. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed by any of these risks. The trading price of our common shares could decline due to any of these risks, and they should be considered in connection with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risks associated with our business Recently inadequate working capital has caused, and will continue to cause, inadequate availability of credit from vendors, cash reserves to be held by our asset based lender, and delays in delivering merchandise. Our lack of working capital has resulted in a reluctance of certain key creditors to extend us adequate credit. Because of this inadequate credit, we have been unable to fulfill our orders in a timely manner, resulting in substantial back orders and delayed payment of our obligations. The inability to ship goods on a timely basis has resulted in increased customer order cancellations, higher than normal returns of goods, damage to our reputation and loss of repeat buyers. There are a number of outstanding accounts payable that were not paid in 2008 even when funds were available. This hurt relationships with many of our providers and sources adversely affecting the company into 2009. All open payables and ostensible commitment are currently under review. We may not be successful in securing additional vendor credit and improving shipment of merchandise in the future. If we cannot get additional vendor credit, we may continue to incur substantial losses. As a result of our lack of working capital, our auditors have issued their report to our financial statements accompanying this report with a going concern qualification. To the extent that cash generated internally and cash available under our loan facility are not sufficient to provide the capital required to fund future operations, we will require additional debt and/or equity financing in order to provide such capital. Such financing, however, may not be available or, if available, may not be on terms satisfactory to us. If we fail to obtain sufficient additional capital in the future, we may not be able to implement our business strategy. If we are able to obtain additional debt financing, we may incur increased interest and amortization expense, increased leverage, increased exposure to competitive pressures and increased exposure to economic downturns. If we are able to obtain equity financing, such financing may dilute the equity interest of our existing stockholders. 14 If we incur losses, our ability to satisfy our cash requirements may be more difficult. We incurred a net loss of approximately $3.9 million in fiscal 2008, and an operating loss of approximately $1.9 million in fiscal 2007. If we fail to generate operating income and net income, we could have difficulty meeting our working capital requirements as well as NASDAQ listing requirements. Changing consumer preferences may negatively impact our product lines. As a result of changing consumer preferences, many toys are successfully marketed for only a few years, if at all. We cannot assure you that any of our current successful products or product lines will continue to be popular with consumers for any significant period of time, or that new product and product lines will achieve an acceptable degree of market acceptance, or that if such acceptance is achieved, it will be maintained for any significant period of time. Our success is dependent upon our ability to enhance existing product lines and develop new products and product lines. The failure of our new products and product lines to achieve and sustain market acceptance and to produce acceptable margins could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our customers’ inventory management systems may cause us to produce excess inventory that may become obsolete and increase our inventory carrying costs. Most of our largest retail customers utilize an inventory management system to track sales of products and rely on reorders being rapidly filled by us and other suppliers, rather than maintaining large product inventories. These types of systems put pressure on suppliers like us to promptly fill customer orders and therefore shift some of the inventory risk from the retailer to the suppliers. Production of excess inventory by us to meet anticipated retailer demand could result in our carrying obsolete inventory and increasing our inventory carrying costs. Similarly, if we fail to predict consumer demand for a product, we may not be able to deliver an adequate supply of products on a timely basis and will, as a result, lose sales opportunities. There are risks related to our acquisition strategy. We may, from time to time, evaluate and pursue acquisition opportunities on terms management considers favorable. A successful acquisition involves an assessment of the business condition and prospects of the acquisition target, which includes factors beyond our control. This assessment is necessarily inexact and its accuracy is inherently uncertain. In connection with such an assessment, we perform a review we believe to be generally consistent with industry practices. This review, however, will not reveal all existing or potential problems, nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the acquisition target to assess fully its deficiencies. We cannot assure you that any such acquisition would be successful or that the operations of the acquisition target could be successfully integrated with our operations. Any unsuccessful acquisition could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on contracts with manufacturers, most of which are short-term. We conduct substantially all of our manufacturing operations through contract manufacturers, many of which are located in the People’s Republic of China (PRC) and Hong Kong. We generally do not have long-term contracts with our manufacturers. Foreign manufacturing is subject to a number of risks including, but not limited to: 15 · transportation delays and interruptions, · political and economic disruptions, · the impositions of tariffs and import and export controls, and · changes in governmental policies. While we have not experienced any material adverse effects due to such risks to date, we cannot assure you that such events will not occur in the future and possibly result in increases in costs and delays of, or interferences with, product deliveries resulting in losses of sales and goodwill. We are dependent on intellectual property rights and cannot ensure that we will be able to successfully protect such rights. We rely on a combination of trademark, copyright, patent and other proprietary rights laws to protect our rights to valuable intellectual property related to our brands. We also rely on license and other agreements to establish ownership rights and to maintain confidentiality. We cannot assure you that such intellectual property rights can be successfully asserted in the future or that they will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. In addition, laws of certain foreign countries in which our products are sold, or in which we operate, do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. The failure to protect our proprietary information and any successful intellectual property challenges or infringement proceedings against us could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. There are specific risks associated with international sales. We have sold products to customers internationally in countries including the United Kingdom, Canada, Korea, Japan, Spain, Australia and New Zealand. We expect to augment our presence in international markets. Accordingly, our business, and our ability to expand our operations internationally, is subject to various risks inherent in international business activities. We may have difficulty in safeguarding our intellectual property in countries where intellectual property laws are not well developed or are poorly enforced. General economic conditions and political conditions of various countries may be subject to severe fluctuations at any time. Such fluctuations could hinder our performance under contracts in those countries or could hinder our ability to collect for product and services delivered in those countries. However, we generally sell to international customers under terms requiring letters of credit or payment in advance. Unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements could also make it difficult or too costly for us to conduct business internationally. In addition, although we have normally been successful in stipulating that our foreign customers pay in U.S. dollars, any payment provisions involving foreign currencies may result in less revenue than expected due to foreign currency rate fluctuations. Other risks associated with international operations include: · import and export licensing requirements, · trade restrictions, · changes in tariff rates, · overlapping tax structures, · transportation delays, 16 · currency fluctuations, · potentially adverse tax consequences, and · compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations Any of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our ability to expand our international sales. Increased exposure to international markets creates new areas with which we may not be familiar and could place us in competition with new vendors. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in our efforts to compete in these international markets. We face potential liability from product safety claims. Products that have been or may be developed or sold by us may expose us to potential liability from personal injury or property damage claims by end-users of such products. We have never been and are not presently a defendant in any product liability lawsuit; however, we cannot assure you that such a suit will not be brought against us in the future. We currently maintain product liability insurance coverage in the amount of $1.0 million per occurrence, with a $2.0 million excess umbrella policy. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain such coverage or obtain additional coverage on acceptable terms, or that such insurance will provide adequate coverage against all potential claims. Moreover, even if we maintain adequate insurance, any successful claim could materially and adversely affect our reputation and prospects, and divert management's time and attention. The U.S. Consumer Products Safety Commission, or CPSC, has the authority under certain federal laws and regulations to protect consumers from hazardous goods. The CPSC may exclude from the market goods it determines are hazardous, and may require a manufacturer to repurchase such goods under certain circumstances. Some state, local and foreign governments have similar laws and regulations. In the event that such laws or regulations change or we are found in the future to have violated any such law or regulation, the sale of the relevant product could be prohibited and we could be required to repurchase such products. We may become subject to burdensome governmental regulation. In the U.S., we are subject to the provisions of, among other laws, the Federal Consumer Product Safety Act and the Federal Hazardous Substances Act. These acts empower the CPSC to protect the public against unreasonable risks of injury associated with consumer products, including toys and other articles. The CPSC has the authority to exclude from the market articles, which are found to be hazardous and can require a manufacturer to repair or repurchase such toys under certain circumstances. Any such determination by the CPSC is subject to court review. Violations of these acts may also result in civil and criminal penalties. Similar laws exist in some states and cities in the U.S. and in many jurisdictions throughout the world. We maintain a quality control program, including the retention of independent testing laboratories, to ensure compliance with applicable laws. We believe we are currently in substantial compliance with these laws. In general, we have not experienced difficulty complying with such regulations, and compliance has not had an adverse effect on our business. There are risks related to our customers’ payment terms. The majority of our customers receive trade terms to which payments for products are delayed for up to 30 days and some receive up to 120 days, pursuant to various sales promotion programs. The insolvency or business failure of one or more of our customers with large accounts receivable could have a material adverse affect on our future sales. 17 Seasonality may affect our results of operations. Our sales have historically been seasonal in nature, reflecting peak sales in the second six months of the year and slower sales in the first six months. Factors associated with investing in us We expect our stock price to be volatile. The market price of the shares of our common stock has been, and will likely continue to be, subject to wide fluctuations in response to several factors, such as · actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations, · new services or product introductions by us or our competitors, · changes in financial estimates by securities analysts, and · conditions and trends in the consumer toy industry. The stock markets generally, and The Nasdaq Capital Market in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices of equity securities of many companies and that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These market fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions such as recessions, interest rates or international currency fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our officers and directors control a large percentage of outstanding stock and may be able to exercise significant control. Our current officers and directors beneficially own 39.7% of our common stock on a fully diluted basis. As a result, current management will be able to exercise significant influence over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. We have implemented anti-takeover defenses. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws may be deemed to have anti-takeover effects and may delay, defer or prevent a take-over attempt of us. We are subject to the “affiliated transactions” and “control share acquisition” provisions of the Florida Business Corporation Act. These provisions require, subject to certain exceptions, that an “affiliated transaction” be approved by the holders of two-thirds of the voting shares other than those beneficially owned by an “interested shareholder” or by a majority of disinterested directors. Voting rights must also be conferred on “control shares” acquired in specific control share acquisitions. Lastly, our articles of incorporation authorize the issuance of up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock with such rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by our board. We include such preferred stock in our capitalization in order to enhance our financial flexibility. However, the issuance of large blocks of preferred stock may have a dilutive effect with respect to existing holders of our common stock. 18 We depend on key personnel. Our success largely depends on a number of key employees. The loss of services of one or more of these employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. We were dependent upon the efforts and abilities of certain of our senior management, particularly Neil Swartz, our Chief Executive Officer, and Robert Burrows CFO and COO. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any executive officer. We believe our future success will also depend, in part, upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. We currently do not intend to pay cash dividends. We expect that we will retain a major portion of available earnings, if any, generated by our operations for the development and growth of our business. The issuance of additional shares of common stock or the exercise of outstanding options and warrants will dilute the interests of our shareholders. As of December 31, 2008, we had 5,951,400 shares of our common stock outstanding. Our board has the ability, without further shareholder approval, to issue up to 19,048,600 additional shares of common stock. Such issuance may result in a reduction of the book value or market price of our outstanding common stock. Issuance of additional common stock will reduce the proportionate ownership and voting power of the then existing shareholders. Further, if all our outstanding options, convertible preferred stock and warrants are exercised, we will have approximately 13,187,600 shares outstanding. Thus, the percentage of shares owned by all existing shareholders will be reduced proportionately as options and warrants are exercised. The table below summarizes our current outstanding common stock, options, warrants and preferred stock: Common Shares, Options, Warrants and Preferred Stock Number of Common Shares Number of Common Shares underlying Options, Warrants and Preferred Stock Total Common stock issued as of December 31, 2008 Issued 6,191,900 6,191,900 Less treasury shares (240,500 ) (240,500 ) Options outstanding as of December 31, 2008 Currently exercisable 130,500 130,500 Currently unexercisable 22,500 22,500 Warrants outstanding as of December 31, 2008 2003 warrants 1,704,400 1,704,400 2006 warrants 5,191,300 5,191,300 Other warrants 12,500 12,500 Preferred Stock Series A Preferred Stock 175,000 175,000 TOTAL 5,951,400 7,236,200 13,187,600 19 ITEM 