Item 1A Risk Factors The following factors, among others discussed herein and in the Company’s filings under the Act, could cause actual results and future events to differ materially from those set forth or contemplated in this report: economic, competitive, governmental and technological factors, increased operating costs, failure to obtain necessary financing, risks related to natural disasters and financial market fluctuations. Such factors also include: Intellectual Property Rights Veramark regards its products as proprietary and attempts to protect them with a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret protections, employee and third-party non-disclosure agreements and other methods of protection. Despite those precautions, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy certain portions of Veramark’s products, reverse engineer or obtain and use information that Veramark regards as proprietary. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect Veramark’s proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Any misappropriation of Veramark’s intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations. Furthermore, although Veramark takes steps to prevent unlawful infringement of other’s intellectual property, there can be no assurance that third parties will not assert infringement claims against Veramark in the future with respect to current or future products. Any such assertion could require Veramark to enter into royalty arrangements or result in costly litigation. On October 4, 2010 the Company was one of three companies named in a complaint filed by Asentinal LLC, alleging infringement of two telecom expense management (TEM) patents held by Asentinal. The Company is in the process of challenging those allegations. (See note 13 to the financial statements). Existing Customer Base We derive a significant portion of our revenues from multi-year Managed Service contracts. As a result, if we lose a major customer, or if a Managed Service contract is delayed, reduced, or cancelled, our revenues could be adversely affected. In addition, customers who have accounted for significant revenues in the past may not generate the same amount of revenues in future periods. 9 Table of Contents Product Development Veramark has made significant investments in research, development and marketing for new products, services and technologies, including the VeraSMART software offering and its hosted or managed solutions. Significant revenue from new product and service investments may not be achieved for a number of years, if at all. Moreover, if such products or services are profitable, operating margins may not be as high as the margins historically experienced by Veramark. The development of software products is a complex and time-consuming process. New products and enhancements to existing products can require long development and testing periods. Significant delays in new product releases or significant problems in creating new products, particularly any delays in future releases of the VeraSMART suite of products or services, could adversely affect Veramark revenues. Declines in Demand for Software If overall market demands for software and computer devices generally, as well as call accounting software or enterprise level products and services specifically, declines, or corporate spending for such products declines, Veramark’s revenue could be adversely affected. Additionally, Veramark’s revenues could be unfavorably impacted if customers reduce their purchases of new software products or upgrades to existing products. Competition Veramark experiences intense competition across all markets for its products and services. Some competing firms have greater name recognition and more financial, marketing and technological resources than Veramark. These competitive pressures may result in decreased sales volumes, price reductions, and/or increased operating costs, such as for marketing and sales incentives, resulting in lower revenues, gross margins and operating income. Marketing and Sales Veramark’s marketing and distribution strategy is founded on building mutually beneficial relationships with companies that have established distribution networks. Some sell privately labeled, customized products developed and manufactured by Veramark to their specific specifications, while others resell Veramark’s products. Any loss of the continued availability of those relationships could have a material adverse effect on Veramark’s business and results of operations. Security and Privacy Breaches in our Systems May Damage Client Relations and Inhibit our Growth The uninterrupted operation of our hosted solutions and the confidentiality of third party information that resides on our systems is critical to our business. We have what we believe to be sufficient security in place to prevent major interruptions in service and to prevent unauthorized access. Any failure in our security and privacy measures could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. Loss of Key Employees Veramark’s delivery of quality products and services requires the experience and knowledge of our staff. The loss of key employees could hinder our ability to deliver services, possibly resulting in loss of customers or loss of revenue. Any loss of key employees could have a material adverse effect on Veramark’s business and results of operations. 10 Table of Contents Changing Market Veramark serves the highly dynamic telecommunications market characterized by continuous technological enhancements and choices that effect the costs incurred versus benefit received by our customers. Veramark staff must remain current otherwise the quality and value of our services could be diminished and competition could offer better value. The failure to remain current could have a material adverse effect on Veramark’s business and results of operations. Access to Capital Veramark may not have the access to capital that will be necessary to maintain a competitive software product, to hire the experienced staff, to fund growth or to fund acquisitions. This could cause Veramark to fall behind market growth rates and have an adverse effect on Veramark’s business. Public Company Veramark is one of only a few TEM companies that has a publicly traded stock. In addition, Veramark’s revenue is small relative to most public companies and the cost of compliance is relatively high when compared with revenue and earnings. This reduces the capital available to run operations and to invest in innovation which could have an adverse effect on business. Stock Price Volatility The acquisition of Source Loop has resulted in a contingent liability, comprised in part by shares of Company stock that may be issued in the future, as partial consideration of the acquisition. The value of the stock liability could vary based upon several factors, including changes in the Company’s stock price through December 31, 2011. Under ASC 805, the Company is required to record the change in the value of the stock liability, if any, through the statement of operations. 