Item 1A Risk Factors The following factors, among others discussed herein and in the Company’s filings under the Act, could cause actual results and future events to differ materially from those set forth or contemplated in this report: economic, competitive, governmental and technological factors, increased operating costs, failure to obtain necessary financing, risks related to natural disasters and financial market fluctuations. Such factors also include: If we cannot continue to enforce the intellectual property rights on which our business depends, or if third parties assert that we violate their intellectual property rights, then our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Veramark regards its products as proprietary and attempts to protect them with a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret protections, employee and third-party non-disclosure agreements and other methods of protection. Despite those precautions, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy certain portions of Veramark’s products, reverse engineer or obtain and use information that Veramark regards as proprietary. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect Veramark’s proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Any misappropriation of Veramark’s intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations. Furthermore, although Veramark takes steps to prevent unlawful infringement of other’s intellectual property, there can be no assurance that third parties will not assert infringement claims against Veramark in the future with respect to current or future products. Any such assertion could require Veramark to enter into royalty arrangements or result in costly litigation. 9 Table of Contents We depend on continued relationships with existing customers and the loss of one or more major customer could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from multi-year Managed Service contracts with our existing customers. Our customers have no obligation to renew their Managed Service contracts. We expect to continue to depend upon these multi-year contracts with existing customers for a significant portion of our revenues and, as a result, our ability to maintain and grow revenue depends in large part on renewals by existing customers. The loss of a major customer or the delay, reduction or cancellation of a Managed Service contract by one or more major customers could adversely affect our operating results. We cannot provide any assurances that present or future large customers will not terminate, significantly delay, reduce or fail to renew their Managed Service contracts with us, any of which would reduce our revenues and may have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we cannot develop new products, services and technologies to address the constantly evolving needs of our customers, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Due to the competitive nature of the industries and markets in which we compete, we must continually introduce new products, services and technologies, enhance existing products and services, and effectively stimulate customer demand for new and upgraded products. We have made significant investments in research, development and marketing for new products, services and technologies, such as our VeraSMART software offering and its hosted or managed solutions. The success of new product introductions depends on a number of factors including, but not limited to, timely and successful product development, market acceptance, our ability to manage the risks associated with new product production issues, the availability of products and services for appropriate costs to meet anticipated demands and the risk that new products may have quality or other defects in the early stages of introduction. Accordingly, we cannot determine in advance the ultimate effect of new product introductions and transitions. Significant revenue from new products and services may not be achieved for a number of years, if at all, and in the event new products or services are profitable, operating margins may not be as high as the margins we have historically achieved. The process of developing new products and services is complex, costly, time-consuming and uncertain, and any failure by us to anticipate customers’ changing needs and emerging trends accurately could harm our market share and/or results of operations. Additionally, significant delays in new product releases or significant issues in the creation of new products, in particular any delays or significant issues regarding the VeraSMART suite of products and services, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. A sudden decrease in demand for our solutions would likely have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If overall market demands for software and computer devices generally, as well as call accounting software or enterprise level products and services specifically, declines, or corporate spending for such products declines, Veramark’s revenue could be adversely affected. Additionally, Veramark’s revenues could be unfavorably impacted if customers reduce their purchases of new software products or upgrades to existing products. 10 Table of Contents We operate in highly competitive markets and an inability to compete effectively may have a negative effect on our results of operations. Veramark experiences intense competition across all markets for its products and services. Some competing firms have greater name recognition and more financial, marketing and technological resources than Veramark. These competitive pressures may result in decreased sales volumes, price reductions, and/or increased operating costs, such as for marketing and sales incentives, resulting in lower revenues, gross margins and operating income. We rely on pre-existing relationships with companies as part of our marketing and distribution strategy; our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected if we are unable to maintain these relationships. Veramark’s marketing and distribution strategy is founded on building mutually beneficial relationships with companies that have established distribution networks. Some sell privately labeled, customized products developed and manufactured by Veramark to their specific specifications, while others resell Veramark’s products. Any loss of the continued availability of those relationships could have a material adverse effect on Veramark’s business and results of operations. Security and privacy breaches in our systems may damage client relations and inhibit our growth The uninterrupted operation of our hosted solutions and our ability to preserve the confidentiality of third party information that resides on our systems, are critical to our business. We have what we believe to be sufficient security safeguards in place to prevent major interruptions in service and to prevent unauthorized access. Any failure in our security and privacy measures could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. We depend on our key employees and senior management team and the loss of the services of one or more of our key employees or members of our senior management team could harm our business. Veramark’s delivery of quality products and services requires the experience and knowledge of our staff. The loss of key employees could hinder our ability to deliver services, possibly resulting in loss of customers or loss of revenue. Any loss of key employees could have a material adverse effect on Veramark’s business and results of operations. Our inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms could have a negative impact on our business. We may need access to additional capital in the future and may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on favorable terms, or at all. Furthermore, if we are able to obtain equity financing, it could result in significant dilution of current ownership interests and a decline in the per-share value of our common stock. If we are able to obtain debt financing, it may be under terms that restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness and/or maintain certain liquidity or other ratios, which could restrict our ability to raise additional capital in the future. If we require additional capital but are unable to raise it on acceptable terms, we may not be able to maintain a competitive software product, hire or retain experienced employees, fund growth in our operations or fund the acquisition of complementary products or businesses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents A failure of our information technology systems could materially adversely affect our business. A failure or prolonged interruption in our information technology systems that compromises our ability to meet our customers’ needs, or impairs our ability to record, process and report accurate information to the SEC could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. If we are unable to continue to access our customers’ communications billing and usage data from communications carriers, the value of our solutions could be impaired. Some of the features of the solutions that we offer depend on our ability to obtain certain communications billing and usage data from our customers’ communications carriers. If one or more communications carriers were to prohibit their customers from providing us with this information, it could impair the functionality of our products and services, which would reduce the value of our solutions. Such impairment could impact our ability to compete, increase our expenses and reduce our sales, any of which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Performance problems with our software may harm our reputation and market share, and result in significant costs to us. Our solution utilizes complex software products that may contain undetected defects and errors that could cause our software to stop functioning, function improperly or not function at a level that meets our customers’ expectations. Such performance problems could damage our reputation among our customers and in the market, which could result in the loss of future sales or the loss of current customers and, accordingly, the loss of market share. Further, our customers use our solution for integral parts of their businesses and any performance problems with our software could therefore damage our customers’ businesses. Whether or not we are responsible for such performance problems, we may be required to spend significant resources in defense of any such claims, and could potentially pay significant fees, settlements or damages, which would have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 