Item 1A. Risk Factors The bedding industry is highly competitive, and if we are unable to compete effectively, we may lose customers and our sales may decline. The bedding industry is highly competitive, and we encounter competition from many manufacturers in both domestic and foreign markets. We, along with Simmons Company and Serta, Inc., accounted for approximately 50.9% of U.S. wholesale revenues in 2008, according to figures obtained from ISPA and Furniture/Today industry publications. The highly competitive nature of the bedding industry means we are continually subject to the risk of loss of our market share, loss of significant customers, reduction in margins, the inability for us to gain market share or acquire new customers, and difficulty in raising our prices. Some of our principal competitors have less debt than we have and may be better able to withstand changes in market conditions within the bedding industry. Additionally, we may encounter increased future competition and further consolidation in our industry which could magnify the competitive risks previously outlined. Our new product launches may not be successful due to development delays, failure of new products to achieve anticipated levels of market acceptance and significant costs associated with failed product introductions, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Each year we invest significant time and resources in research and development to improve our product offerings. There are a number of risks inherent in our new product line introductions, such as the anticipated level of market acceptance may not be realized, which could negatively impact our sales. Also, introduction costs and manufacturing inefficiencies may be greater than anticipated, which could impact our profitability. We may experience fluctuations in our operating results due to seasonality, which could make sequential quarter to quarter comparison an unreliable indication of our performance. We have historically experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, seasonal and quarterly fluctuations in net sales and operating income. As is the case with many bedding customers, the retail business is subject to seasonal influences, characterized by strong sales for the months of June through September, which impacts our third fiscal quarter results. Our third fiscal quarter sales are typically 5% to 15% higher than other fiscal quarters. Our first fiscal quarter cash flows are typically the most unfavorable due to working capital demands and coupon payments on our 2014 Notes. This seasonality 12 means that a sequential quarter to quarter comparison may not be a good indication of our performance or of how we will perform in the future. A substantial decrease in business from our significant customers could have a material adverse effect on our sales and market share. Our top five customers on a consolidated basis accounted for approximately 25.5% of our net sales for fiscal 2009 and no single customer represented more than 10% of net sales for fiscal 2009. While we believe our relationships with these customers are stable, many arrangements are made by purchase order or are terminable at will at the option of either party. A substantial decrease or interruption in business from our significant customers could result in material write offs or loss of future business. Beginning in 2008 and continuing through the first quarter of fiscal 2009, the economic environment became more challenging and caused a higher occurrence of bankruptcies for mattress retailers. However, we have seen a decrease in the frequency of bankruptcies of our customers in the second through fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. These economic conditions have also caused some smaller mattress retailers to exit the market. Furthermore, many of our customers rely in part on consumers' ability to finance their mattress purchases with credit from third parties. If consumers are unable to obtain financing, they may defer their purchases. In the future, retailers may consolidate, restructure, reorganize or realign their affiliations, any of which could decrease the number of stores that carry our products or increase the ownership concentration in the retail industry. Some of these retailers may decide to carry only one brand of mattress products which could affect our ability to sell our products on favorable terms or to maintain or increase market share. As a result, our sales and profitability may decline. Unfavorable economic conditions could continue to negatively affect our revenues and profitability. Our business, financial condition and results of operations have and may continue to be affected by various economic factors. The global economy is undergoing a period of slowdown, which is characterized as a recession, and the future economic environment may continue to be less favorable than that of recent years. The U.S. economy, which contains our largest market, has been in a recession throughout much of fiscal 2008 and 2009. This slowdown has, and could further lead to, reduced consumer and business spending in the foreseeable future, including by our customers, and the purchasers of their products. Reduced access to credit has and may continue to adversely affect the ability of consumers to purchase our products from retailers. It has and may continue to adversely affect the ability of our customers to pay us. If such conditions continue or further deteriorate in fiscal 2010, our industry, business and results of operations may be severely impacted. Our profitability may be materially and adversely affected by increases in the cost of petroleum-based products, steel and other raw materials. Our industry has been challenged by volatility in the price of petroleum-based and steel products, which affects the cost of our polyurethane foam, polyester, polyethylene foam and steel innerspring component parts. Domestic supplies of these raw materials are being limited by supplier consolidation, the exporting of these raw materials outside of the U.S. due to the weakened dollar and other forces beyond our control. During fiscal 2007 and 2008, the cost of these components saw significant increases above their recent historical averages due to volatility in prices. However, these prices were more stable in fiscal 2009. The manufacturers of products such as petro-chemicals and wire rod, which are the materials purchased by our suppliers of foam and drawn wire, may reduce supplies in an effort to maintain higher prices. These actions would delay or eliminate price reductions from our suppliers. 13 Our profitability may be materially and adversely affected by any interruption in supply from third party vendors. We purchase our raw materials and certain components from a variety of suppliers, including box spring components from Leggett & Platt Inc., foam materials from Carpenter Co., and various subassemblies and components from national raw material and component suppliers. If we experience a loss or disruption in our supply of these components, we may have difficulty sourcing substitute components on terms favorable to us. In addition, any alternate source may impair product performance or require us to alter our manufacturing process, which could have an adverse effect on our profitability. We are dependent upon a single supplier for certain polyurethane foam components in our mattress units. A disruption in the supply of these products and services could adversely affect our operations. We are dependent upon a single supplier for certain key polyurethane foam components which make up our various mattress brands. Such components are purchased under a supply agreement and are manufactured in accordance with proprietary process designs exclusive to the supplier. If we experience a loss or disruption in our supply of these components, we may have difficulty sourcing substitute components on terms favorable to us. In addition, any alternative source may impair product performance or require us to alter our manufacturing process, which could have an adverse effect on our profitability. We are dependent upon a single supplier for the visco-elastic components and assembly of our TrueForm product line. A disruption in the supply of these products and services could adversely affect our operations. We are dependent upon a single supplier for certain structural components and assembly of our TrueForm product line. These products are purchased under a supply agreement and are manufactured in accordance with proprietary designs jointly owned by us and the supplier. If we experience a loss or disruption in our supply of these products, we may have difficulty sourcing substitute components on terms favorable to us. In addition, any alternative source may impair product performance or require us to alter our manufacturing process, which could have an adverse effect on our profitability. The related product in which these components and assembly processes are used does not represent a significant portion of our overall sales. Our significant international operations are subject to foreign exchange, tariff, tax, inflation and political risks and our ability to expand in certain international markets is limited by the terms of licenses we have granted to manufacture and sell Sealy products. We currently conduct significant international operations and may pursue additional international opportunities. Our international operations are subject to the risks of operating in an international environment, including the potential imposition of trade or foreign exchange restrictions, tariff and other tax increases, fluctuations in exchange rates, inflation and unstable political situations. We have also limited our ability to independently expand in certain international markets where we have granted licenses to manufacture and sell Sealy bedding products. Our licensees in Australia, Jamaica and the United Kingdom have perpetual licenses, subject to limited termination rights. Our licensees in the Dominican Republic, the Bahamas, Israel, Japan, Saudi Arabia, Spain, South Africa and Thailand hold licenses for fixed terms with limited renewal rights. Fluctuations in the rate of exchange between the U.S. dollar and other currencies may affect stockholders' equity and our financial condition or results of operations. 14 The loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management team could impair our ability to execute our business strategy and adversely affect our business. We are dependent on the continued services of our senior management team, most of whom have substantial industry specific experience. For example, Lawrence J. Rogers, our current President and Chief Executive Officer (former President, Sealy North America from December 2006 through March 2008), has served in numerous capacities within our operations since joining us in 1979. The loss of key personnel could impair our ability to execute our business strategy and have a material adverse effect on our business. Our substantial level of indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness After the completion of the Refinancing, we continue to have substantial indebtedness. As of November 29, 2009, we had a total of $847.5 million of debt outstanding, including $336.6 million Senior Notes, $180.1 million Convertible Notes and $268.9 million Senior Subordinated Notes. We also have approximately $36.8 million of undrawn availability under the ABL Revolver, after taking into account $24.1 million of outstanding letters of credit and borrowing base limitations. Our outstanding indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: •limit our ability to pay dividends on our common stock; •make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our outstanding debt, including any repurchase obligations that may arise thereunder; •limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, restructuring, acquisitions or general corporate purposes, which could be exacerbated by further volatility in the credit markets; •require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest on our outstanding debt which will reduce the funds available to us for operations and other purposes; •place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that may have proportionally less debt; •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; •make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business; and •make us vulnerable to interest rate increases, as certain of our borrowings are at variable interest rates. Any of the above listed factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Despite our current leverage, we may still be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks that we and our subsidiaries face The terms of the ABL Revolver agreement and the indentures governing our Senior Notes, Convertible Notes and 2014 Notes will restrict us and our subsidiaries from incurring substantial additional indebtedness in the future, but will not completely prohibit us from doing so. Our ABL Revolver provides for revolving credit financing of up to $100.0 million, subject to borrowing base availability. At November 29, 2009, we have $36.8 million of undrawn availability under the ABL Revolver, after taking into account $24.1 million of letters of credit and borrowing base limitations. These restrictions are subject to a number of important qualifications and exceptions and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. If new debt is added to our existing debt levels, the related risks that we now face, including those described above, could intensify. 15 The terms of our debt covenants could limit how we conduct our business and our ability to raise additional funds. The agreements that govern the terms of our debt, including the indentures that govern the Senior Notes, Convertible Notes, and 2014 Notes and the credit agreement that governs our ABL Revolver, contain, and the agreements that govern our future indebtedness may contain, covenants that restrict our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to: •incur and guarantee indebtedness or issue preferred stock; •repay certain subordinated indebtedness prior to its stated maturity; •pay dividends or make other distributions on or redeem or repurchase our stock; •issue capital stock; •make certain investments or acquisitions; •create liens; •engage in most asset sales; •merge with or into other companies; •enter into certain transactions with stockholders and affiliates; •make capital expenditures; •make certain investments or acquisitions; and •restrict dividends, distributions or other payments from our subsidiaries. In addition, under the ABL Revolver, if our borrowing availability falls below the greater of 15% of the aggregate commitments thereunder and $15.0 million, we will be required to satisfy and maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio of not less than 1.1 to 1.0. Our ability to meet the required fixed charge coverage ratio can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not be able to meet this ratio. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the ABL Revolver. A breach of the covenants or restrictions under our debt agreements and indentures governing our outstanding notes could result in a default under the applicable indebtedness. Such default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. In addition, an event of default under our ABL Revolver would permit the lenders under our ABL Revolver to terminate all commitments to extend further credit under that facility. Furthermore, if we were unable to repay the amounts due and payable under our ABL Revolver, those lenders could proceed against the Collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. In the event our lenders and noteholders accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we cannot assure that we and our subsidiaries would have sufficient assets to repay such indebtedness. As a result of these restrictions we may be: •limited in how we conduct our business; •unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to operate during general economic or business downturns; or •unable to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. These restrictions may affect our ability to grow in accordance with our plans. 16 We are a holding company and rely on dividends, interest and other payments, advances and transfers of funds from our subsidiaries to enable us to pay dividends. We are a holding company and conduct all of our operations through our subsidiaries and currently have no significant assets other than the capital stock of Sealy Mattress Corporation and the license to use the Pirelli brand name in European territories, which expired in December 2009. As a result, we rely on dividends and other payments or distributions from our subsidiaries to enable us to pay dividends. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments or distributions to us will depend on their respective operating results and may be restricted by, among other things, the laws of their jurisdiction of organization (which may limit the amount of funds available for the payment of dividends), agreements of those subsidiaries and the covenants of any existing and future outstanding indebtedness we or our subsidiaries incur, including Sealy Mattress Company's ABL revolver agreement and the indentures governing the Senior Notes, Convertible Notes and 2014 Notes. For instance, the agreement governing Sealy Mattress Company's ABL Revolver contains restrictions on the ability of Sealy Mattress Corporation to pay dividends or make other distributions to us subject to specified exceptions including the satisfaction of a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio and average daily availability levels. We currently do not meet this requirement and therefore are not able to pay a dividend. In addition, the indentures governing the Senior Notes and the 2014 Notes contain restrictions on the ability of Sealy Mattress Company to pay dividends or make other distributions to Sealy Mattress Corporation subject to specified exceptions including an amount based upon 50% of cumulative consolidated net income from the issue date of the notes. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flow from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital, or seek to restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to sell material assets or operations to attempt to meet our debt service and other obligations. The ABL Revolver agreement and the indentures governing our Senior Notes, Convertible Notes and 2014 Notes will restrict our ability to use the proceeds from asset sales. We may not be able to consummate those asset sales to raise capital or sell assets at prices that we believe are fair and proceeds that we do receive may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. Changes in tax laws and regulations or other factors could cause our income tax rate to increase, potentially reducing our net income and adversely affecting our cash flows. We are subject to taxation in various jurisdictions around the world. In preparing our financial statements, we calculate our effective income tax rate based on current tax laws and regulations and the estimated taxable income within each of these jurisdictions. Our effective income tax rate, however, may be higher due to numerous factors, including changes in tax laws or regulations. A significantly higher effective income tax rate could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and liquidity. 17 Officials in some of the jurisdictions in which we do business, including the United States, have proposed, or announced that they are reviewing tax increases and other revenue raising laws and regulations. Any resulting changes in tax laws or regulations could impose new restrictions, costs or prohibitions on our current practices and reduce our net income and adversely affect our cash flows. The time and expense of defending against challenges to our trademarks, patents and other intellectual property could divert our management's attention and substantial financial resources from our business. Our goodwill and ability to differentiate our products in the marketplace could be negatively affected if we were unsuccessful in defending against such challenges. We hold over 1,200 worldwide trademarks, which we believe have significant value and are important to the marketing of our products to customers. We own 43 U.S. patents, a number of which have been registered in a total of 31 countries, and we have 4 domestic patents pending. In addition, we own U.S. and foreign registered trade names and service marks and have applications for the registration of trade names and service marks pending domestically and abroad. We also own several U.S. copyright registrations, and a wide array of unpatented proprietary technology and know-how. We also license certain intellectual property rights from third parties. Our ability to compete effectively with other companies depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our owned and licensed intellectual property. Although our trademarks are currently registered in the United States and registered or pending in 101 foreign countries, we still face risks that our trademarks may be circumvented or violate the proprietary rights of others and we may be prevented from using our trademarks if challenged. A challenge to our use of our trademarks could result in a negative ruling regarding our use of our trademarks, their validity or their enforceability, or could prove expensive and time consuming in terms of legal costs and time spent defending against it. In addition, we may not have the financial resources necessary to enforce or defend our trademarks. We also face risks as to the degree of protection offered by the various patents, the likelihood that patents will be issued for pending patent applications or, with regard to the licensed intellectual property, that the licenses will not be terminated. If we were unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our intellectual property and our significant current or proposed products, our goodwill and ability to differentiate our products in the marketplace could be negatively affected and our market share and profitability could be materially and adversely affected. Regulatory requirements relating to our products may increase our costs, alter our manufacturing processes and impair our product performance. Our products and raw materials are and will continue to be subject to regulation in the United States by various federal, state and local regulatory authorities. In addition, other governments and agencies in other jurisdictions regulate the sale and distribution of our products and raw materials. These rules and regulations may change from time to time. Compliance with these regulations may negatively impact our business. There may be continuing costs of regulatory compliance including continuous testing, additional quality control processes and appropriate auditing of design and process compliance. In February 2005, the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission ("CPSC") passed 16 CFR Part 1633 that effectively applies the California open flame standard, but added significant quality control, record keeping and testing requirements on mattress manufacturers, including Sealy. This rule became effective on July 1, 2007. Further, some states and the U.S. Congress continue to consider open flame regulations for mattresses and bed sets or integral components that may be different or more stringent than the CPSC standard and we may be required to make different products for different states or change our processes or distribution practices nationwide. It is possible that some states' more stringent standards, if adopted and enforceable, could make it difficult to manufacture a cost effective 18 product in those jurisdictions and compliance with proposed new rules and regulations may increase our costs, alter our manufacturing processes and impair the performance of our products. In addition, our marketing and advertising practices could become the subject of proceedings before regulatory authorities or the subject of claims by other parties, which could require us to alter or end these practices or adopt new practices that are not as effective or are more expensive. Environmental, health and safety requirements could expose us to material liabilities and changes in our operations as a result of environmental contamination, among other things. As a manufacturer of bedding and related products, we use and dispose of a number of substances, such as glue, lubricating oil, solvents and other petroleum products, as well as certain foam ingredients that may subject us to regulation under numerous federal and state statutes governing the environment (including those environmental regulations that are applicable to our foreign operations such as Argentina, Brazil, Canada, France, Italy, Mexico, Uruguay and other jurisdictions). Among other statutes, we are subject to the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Clean Air Act and related state statutes and regulations. As we abide by certain new open flame regulations, our products and processes may be governed more rigorously by certain state and federal environmental and OSHA standards as well as the provisions of California Proposition 65 and 16 CFR Part 1633. We have made and will continue to make capital and other expenditures to comply with environmental requirements. We also have incurred and will continue to incur costs related to certain remediation activities. Under various environmental laws, we may be held liable for the costs of remediating releases of hazardous substances at any properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or at any site to which we sent hazardous substances for disposal. We are currently addressing the clean-up of environmental contamination at our former facility in Oakville, Connecticut and our former facility in South Brunswick, New Jersey. At November 29, 2009, we have accrued approximately $0.2 million and $2.3 million for the Oakville and South Brunswick clean-ups, respectively, and we believe that these reserves are adequate. While uncertainty exists as to the ultimate resolution of these two environmental matters and we believe that the accruals recorded are adequate, in the event of an adverse decision by one or more of the governing environmental authorities or if additional contamination is discovered, these matters could have a material effect on our profitability. A change or deterioration in labor relations could disrupt our business or increase costs, which could lead to a material decline in sales or profitability. As of November 29, 2009, we had 4,848 full time employees. Approximately 68% of our employees at our 25 North American plants are represented by various labor unions with separate collective bargaining agreements. Our current collective bargaining agreements, which are typically three years in length, expire at various times beginning in 2010 through 2012. Due to the large number of collective bargaining agreements, we are periodically in negotiations with certain of the unions representing our employees. We may at some point be subject to work stoppages by some of our employees and, if such events were to occur, there may be a material adverse effect on our operations and profitability. Further, we may not be able to renew the various collective bargaining agreements on a timely basis or on favorable terms, or at all. Our pension plans are currently underfunded and we will be required to make cash payments to the plans, reducing the cash available for our business. We have noncontributory, defined benefit pension plans covering current and former hourly employees at four of our active plants and eight previously closed facilities as well as the employees of 19 a facility of our Canadian operations and our manufacturing facility in France. We record a liability associated with these plans equal to the excess of the benefit obligation over the fair value of plan assets. The benefit liability recorded at November 29, 2009 was $12.1 million, and we expect to make estimated minimum funding contributions totaling approximately $1.1 million in 2010. If the performance of the assets in these pension plans does not meet our expectations, or if other actuarial assumptions are modified, our future cash payments to the plans could be higher than we expect. The domestic pension plan is subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, or ERISA. Under ERISA, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, or PBGC, has the authority to terminate an underfunded pension plan under limited circumstances. In the event our pension plan is terminated for any reason while it is underfunded, we will incur a liability to the PBGC that may be equal to the entire amount of the underfunding. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 