Item 1A. Risk Factors The bedding industry is highly competitive, and if we are unable to compete effectively, we may lose customers and our sales may decline. The bedding industry is highly competitive, and we encounter competition from many manufacturers in both domestic and foreign markets. We, along with Simmons Company and Serta, Inc., accounted for approximately 49.5% of wholesale revenues in 2007, according to figures obtained from International Sleep Products Association and Furniture/Today industry publications. The highly competitive nature of the bedding industry means we are continually subject to the risk of loss of our market share, loss of significant customers, reduction in margins, the inability for us to gain market share or acquire new customers, and difficulty in raising our prices. Some of our principal competitors have less debt than we have and may be better able to withstand changes in market conditions within the bedding industry. Additionally, we may encounter increased future competition and further consolidation in our industry which could magnify the competitive risks previously outlined. Our new product launches may not be successful due to development delays, failure of new products to achieve anticipated levels of market acceptance and significant costs associated with failed product introductions, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Each year we invest significant time and resources in research and development to improve our product offerings. There are a number of risks inherent in our new product line introductions, such as the anticipated level of market acceptance may not be realized, which could negatively impact our sales. Also, introduction costs and manufacturing inefficiencies may be greater than anticipated, which could impact our profitability. We may experience fluctuations in our operating results due to seasonality, which could make sequential quarter to quarter comparison an unreliable indication of our performance. We have historically experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, seasonal and quarterly fluctuations in net sales and operating income. As is the case with many bedding customers, the retail business is subject to seasonal influences, characterized by strong sales for the months of June through September, which impacts our third fiscal quarter results. Our third fiscal quarter sales are typically 5% to 15% higher than other fiscal quarters. Our first fiscal quarter cash flows are typically the most unfavorable due to coupon payments on our 2014 Notes and working capital demands. This seasonality means that a sequential quarter to quarter comparison may not be a good indication of our performance or of how we will perform in the future. A substantial decrease in business from our significant customers could have a material adverse effect on our sales and market share. Our top five customers on a consolidated basis accounted for approximately 25.4% of our net sales for fiscal 2008 and no single customer represented more than 10% of net sales for fiscal 2008. While we believe our relationships with these customers are stable, many arrangements are made by purchase order or are terminable at will at the option of either party. A substantial decrease or interruption in business from our significant customers could result in material write offs or loss of future business. During 2008, the economic environment has become more challenging and has caused a higher occurrence of bankruptcies for mattress retailers. It has also caused many of the smaller mattress retailers to exit the market. This has resulted in additional write-offs and customer losses during fiscal 2008. Furthermore, many of our customers rely in part on consumers' ability to finance their mattress purchases with credit from third parties. If consumers are unable to obtain financing, they may defer their purchases. 12 In the future, retailers may consolidate, restructure, reorganize or realign their affiliations, any of which could decrease the number of stores that carry our products or increase the ownership concentration in the retail industry. Some of these retailers may decide to carry only one brand of mattress products which could affect our ability to sell our products on favorable terms or to maintain or increase market share. As a result, our sales and profitability may decline. Our profitability may be materially and adversely affected by increases in the cost of petroleum-based products, steel and other raw materials. Our industry has been challenged by the unprecedented volatility in the price of petroleum-based and steel products, which affects the cost of our polyurethane foam, polyester, polyethylene foam and steel innerspring component parts. Domestic supplies of these raw materials are being limited by supplier consolidation, the exporting of these raw materials outside of the U.S. due to the weakened dollar and other forces beyond our control. During fiscal 2007 and 2008, the cost of these components saw significant increases above their recent historical averages. The manufacturers of products such as petro-chemicals and wire rod, which are the materials purchased by our suppliers of foam and drawn wire, may reduce supplies in an effort to maintain higher prices. These actions would delay or eliminate price reductions from our suppliers. Our profitability may be materially and adversely affected by any interruption in supply from third party vendors. We purchase our raw materials and certain components from a variety of suppliers, including box spring components from Leggett & Platt Inc., foam materials from Carpenter Co., and various subassemblies and components from national raw material and component suppliers. If we experience a loss or disruption in our supply of these components, we may have difficulty sourcing substitute components on terms favorable to us. In addition, any alternate source may impair product performance or require us to alter our manufacturing process, which could have an adverse effect on our profitability. We are dependent upon a single supplier for certain polyurethane foam components in our mattress units. A disruption in the supply of these products and services could adversely affect our operations. We are dependent upon a single supplier for certain key polyurethane foam components which make up our various mattress brands. Such components are purchased under a measured supply agreement and are manufactured in accordance with proprietary process designs exclusive to the supplier. If we experience a loss or disruption in our supply of these components, we may have difficulty sourcing substitute components on terms favorable to us. In addition, any alternative source may impair product performance or require us to alter our manufacturing process, which could have an adverse effect on our profitability. We are dependent upon a single supplier for the visco-elastic components and assembly of our TrueForm product line. A disruption in the supply of these products and services could adversely affect our operations. We are dependent upon a single supplier for certain structural components and assembly of our TrueForm product line. These products are purchased under a measured supply agreement and are manufactured in accordance with proprietary designs jointly owned by us and the supplier. If we experience a loss or disruption in our supply of these products, we may have difficulty sourcing substitute components on terms favorable to us. In addition, any alternative source may impair product performance or require us to alter our manufacturing process, which could have an adverse effect on our profitability. The related product in which these components and assembly processes are used does not represent a significant portion of our overall sales. 13 Our significant international operations are subject to foreign exchange, tariff, tax, inflation and political risks and our ability to expand in certain international markets is limited by the terms of licenses we have granted to manufacture and sell Sealy products. We currently conduct significant international operations and may pursue additional international opportunities. Our international operations are subject to the risks of operating in an international environment, including the potential imposition of trade or foreign exchange restrictions, tariff and other tax increases, fluctuations in exchange rates, inflation and unstable political situations. We have also limited our ability to independently expand in certain international markets where we have granted licenses to manufacture and sell Sealy bedding products. Our licensees in Australia, Jamaica and the United Kingdom have perpetual licenses, subject to limited termination rights. Our licensees in the Dominican Republic, the Bahamas, Israel, Japan, New Zealand, Saudi Arabia, Spain, South Africa and Thailand hold licenses for fixed terms with limited renewal rights. Fluctuations in the rate of exchange between the U.S. dollar and other currencies may affect stockholders' equity and our financial condition or results of operations. The loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management team could impair our ability to execute our business strategy and adversely affect our business. We are dependent on the continued services of our senior management team, most of whom have substantial industry specific experience. For example, Lawrence J. Rogers, our current President and Chief Executive Officer (former President, Sealy North America from December 2006 through March 2008), has served in numerous capacities within our operations since joining us in 1979. The loss of key personnel could impair our ability to execute our business strategy and have a material adverse effect on our business. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which may adversely affect our cash flow, our ability to comply with our debt covenants and operate our business. At November 30, 2008, we had outstanding indebtedness, of approximately $783.4 million, with additional availability of $44.7 million under the revolving credit facility after taking into account letters of credit for $15.9 million. We paid $58.2 million of interest during fiscal 2008. In November 2008, we amended our senior credit facility, which increased the applicable interest rate margins by 275 to 325 basis points. Due to the significant amount of debt outstanding under this agreement, this amendment will have a significant impact on our required interest payments to be made in future periods. Subsequent to year-end, we entered into two interest rate swap agreements which converted an additional $107.0 million of our floating rate debt to a fixed rate through February 4, 2010 and an additional $20.0 million of our floating rate debt to a fixed rate through November 4, 2009. After considering these hedges and giving effect to the amended interest rates, a 1% increase in the interest rates applicable to the unhedged portion of our variable rate debt would result in approximately $0.8 million in additional annual cash interest expense. We have scheduled quarterly principal payments due on Tranche A of our senior secured term loan of 1.25% of the then outstanding principal from November 2008 through August 2010 and quarterly principal payments of 21.25% of the then outstanding principal amount from November 2010 through the maturity date in August 2011. As of November 30, 2008, we have prepaid these quarterly principal payments on Tranche A through the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2009. On Tranche E of our senior secured term loan, we have no scheduled quarterly principal prepayments due until the maturity date in August 2012 due to prepayments made in fiscal 2007. There are no scheduled principal prepayments due on our senior subordinated debt until the maturity date in June 2014. In addition, each year our senior secured term notes remain outstanding, we may be required to make principal prepayments depending on certain financial ratios, as defined in our senior secured 14 credit agreement. We do not expect there to be any mandatory prepayments due in fiscal 2009. We are unable to estimate whether any such prepayments may continue to be required after 2009. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: •limit our ability to pay dividends on our common stock; •make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our outstanding debt, and a failure to comply with any financial and other restrictive covenants could result in an event of default under our debt instruments and agreements; •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the funds available for dividends on our common stock, working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; •limit our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and in the industry in which we operate; •make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; •limit our options to effect a sale of assets through non-cash or sale/leaseback transactions; •limit our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our strategy, or other purposes; and •place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt. Any of the above listed factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Despite our current leverage, we may still be able to incur significant additional indebtedness. This could further exacerbate the risks that we face. We may be able to incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. Although the indenture governing our 8.25% senior subordinated notes due June 2014 (the "2014 Notes") and the instruments governing our senior secured indebtedness contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of important qualifications and exceptions and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. If new debt is added to our existing debt levels, the related risks that we now face, including those described above, could intensify. The terms of the senior secured credit facilities and the indenture governing the 2014 Notes may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in our business or to take certain actions. Our senior secured credit facilities and the indenture governing the 2014 Notes contain, and any future indebtedness of ours would likely contain, a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on our subsidiaries, including restrictions that may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our best long term interests. The senior secured credit facilities include financial covenants, including requirements that we: •maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio; and •not exceed a maximum total leverage ratio. The financial covenants contained in the senior secured credit facilities were amended in fiscal 2008 to make them less restrictive, but they will become more restrictive over time. In addition, the 15 senior secured credit facilities limit our subsidiaries' ability to make capital expenditures and require that they use proceeds of certain asset sales that are not reinvested in our business to repay indebtedness under them. The senior secured credit facilities also include covenants restricting, among other things, our subsidiaries' ability to: •incur or guarantee additional debt or issue preferred stock; •pay dividends, or make redemptions and repurchases, with respect to capital stock; •create or incur certain liens; •make prepayments on subordinated debt; •make certain loans, acquisitions, capital expenditures or investments; and •engage in mergers, acquisitions, asset sales and sale and lease-back transactions. The indenture relating to the 2014 Notes also contains numerous covenants including, among other things, restrictions on our subsidiaries' ability to: •incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue disqualified or preferred stock; •create liens; •enter into sale and lease-back transactions; •pay dividends or make other equity distributions; •repurchase or redeem capital stock; •make investments or other restricted payments; •sell assets or consolidate or merge with or into other companies; •create limitations on the ability of Sealy Mattress Company and its restricted subsidiaries to make dividends or distributions to Sealy Mattress Corporation (a 100%-owned subsidiary of Sealy Corporation); and •engage in transactions with affiliates. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our existing debt agreements and any future financing agreements may adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. A breach of any of the restrictive covenants in our debt agreements could result in a default under such agreements. If any such default occurs, the lenders under the debt agreements may elect to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable, enforce their security interest or require us to apply all of our available cash to repay these borrowings, any of which would result in an event of default under our notes. Those lenders will also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings. If we are unable to repay outstanding borrowings when due, the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities will have the right to proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure the debt owed to them. If the debt payments under the senior secured credit facilities were to be accelerated, our assets may not be sufficient to repay such debt in full or to repay our notes and our other debt. Unfavorable economic conditions could continue to negatively affect our revenues and profitability. Our business, financial condition and results of operations have and may continue to be affected by various economic factors. The global economy is undergoing a period of slowdown, which is 16 characterized as a recession, and the future economic environment may continue to be less favorable than that of recent years. The U.S. economy, which contains our largest market, has been in a recession throughout much of fiscal 2008. This slowdown has, and could further lead to, reduced consumer and business spending in the foreseeable future, including by our customers, and the purchasers of their products. Reduced access to credit has and may continue to adversely affect the ability of consumers to purchase our products from retailers. It has and may continue to adversely affect the ability of our customers to pay us. If such conditions continue or further deteriorate in 2009 or through fiscal 2010, our industry, business and results of operations may be severely impacted The time and expense of defending against challenges to our trademarks, patents and other intellectual property could divert our management's attention and substantial financial resources from our business. Our goodwill and ability to differentiate our products in the marketplace could be negatively affected if we were unsuccessful in defending against such challenges. We hold over 675 worldwide trademarks, which we believe have significant value and are important to the marketing of our products to customers. We own 42 U.S. patents, a number of which have been registered in a total of 31 countries, and we have 6 domestic patents pending. In addition, we own U.S. and foreign registered trade names and service marks and have applications for the registration of trade names and service marks pending domestically and abroad. We also own several U.S. copyright registrations, and a wide array of unpatented proprietary technology and know-how. We also license certain intellectual property rights from third parties. Our ability to compete effectively with other companies depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our owned and licensed intellectual property. Although our trademarks are currently registered in the United States and registered or pending in 96 foreign countries, we still face risks that our trademarks may be circumvented or violate the proprietary rights of others and we may be prevented from using our trademarks if challenged. A challenge to our use of our trademarks could result in a negative ruling regarding our use of our trademarks, their validity or their enforceability, or could prove expensive and time consuming in terms of legal costs and time spent defending against it. In addition, we may not have the financial resources necessary to enforce or defend our trademarks. We also face risks as to the degree of protection offered by the various patents, the likelihood that patents will be issued for pending patent applications or, with regard to the licensed intellectual property, that the licenses will not be terminated. If we were unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our intellectual property and our significant current or proposed products, our goodwill and ability to differentiate our products in the marketplace could be negatively affected and our market share and profitability could be materially and adversely affected. We are a holding company and rely on dividends, interest and other payments, advances and transfers of funds from our subsidiaries to enable us to pay dividends. We are a holding company and conduct all of our operations through our subsidiaries and currently have no significant assets other than the capital stock of Sealy Mattress Corporation and the license to use the Pirelli brand name in European territories. As a result, we rely on dividends and other payments or distributions from our subsidiaries to enable us to pay dividends. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments or distributions to us will depend on their respective operating results and may be restricted by, among other things, the laws of their jurisdiction of organization (which may limit the amount of funds available for the payment of dividends), agreements of those subsidiaries and the covenants of any existing and future outstanding indebtedness we or our subsidiaries incur, including Sealy Mattress Company's senior secured credit facilities and the indenture governing the 2014 Notes. For instance, the agreement governing Sealy Mattress Company's senior secured credit facilities contains restrictions on the ability of Sealy Mattress Corporation to pay dividends or make other distributions to us subject to specified exceptions including an amount based 17 upon 50% of cumulative consolidated net income from April 2004. We are also required under this agreement to meet a minimum leverage ratio test in order to pay a dividend. We currently do not meet this requirement and therefore are not able to pay a dividend. In addition, the indenture governing the 2014 Notes contains restrictions on the ability of Sealy Mattress Company to pay dividends or make other distributions to Sealy Mattress Corporation subject to specified exceptions including an amount based upon 50% of cumulative consolidated net income from April 2004. Regulatory requirements relating to our products may increase our costs, alter our manufacturing processes and impair our product performance. Our products and raw materials are and will continue to be subject to regulation in the United States by various federal, state and local regulatory authorities. In addition, other governments and agencies in other jurisdictions regulate the sale and distribution of our products and raw materials. These rules and regulations may change from time to time. Compliance with these regulations may negatively impact our business. For example, the California Home Furnishings Bureau adopted new open flame resistance standards under Technical Bulletin 603, that became effective in January 2005. There may be continuing costs of regulatory compliance including continuous testing, additional quality control processes and appropriate auditing of design and process compliance. In February 2005, the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) passed 16 CFR Part 1633 that effectively applies the California open flame standard, but added significant quality control, record keeping and testing requirements on mattress manufacturers, including Sealy. This rule became effective on July 1, 2007. Further, some states and the U.S. Congress continue to consider open flame regulations for mattresses and bed sets or integral components that may be different or more stringent than the California or CPSC standard and we may be required to make different products for different states or change our processes or distribution practices nationwide. It is possible that some states' more stringent standards, if adopted and enforceable, could make it difficult to manufacture a cost effective product in those jurisdictions and compliance with proposed new rules and regulations may increase our costs, alter our manufacturing processes and impair the performance of our products. In addition, our marketing and advertising practices could become the subject of proceedings before regulatory authorities or the subject of claims by other parties, which could require us to alter or end these practices or adopt new practices that are not as effective or are more expensive. Environmental, health and safety requirements could expose us to material liabilities and changes in our operations as a result of environmental contamination, among other things. As a manufacturer of bedding and related products, we use and dispose of a number of substances, such as glue, lubricating oil, solvents and other petroleum products, as well as certain foam ingredients that may subject us to regulation under numerous federal and state statutes governing the environment (including those environmental regulations that are applicable to our foreign operations such as Argentina, Brazil, Canada, France, Italy, Mexico, Uruguay and other jurisdictions). Among other statutes, we are subject to the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Clean Air Act and related state statutes and regulations. As we abide by certain new open flame regulations, our products and processes may be governed more rigorously by certain state and federal environmental and OSHA standards as well as the provisions of California Proposition 65 and 16 CFR Part 1633. We have made and will continue to make capital and other expenditures to comply with environmental requirements. We also have incurred and will continue to incur costs related to certain remediation activities. Under various environmental laws, we may be held liable for the costs of remediating releases of hazardous substances at any properties currently or previously owned or 18 operated by us or at any site to which we sent hazardous substances for disposal. We are currently addressing the clean-up of environmental contamination at our former facility in South Brunswick, New Jersey and our former facility in Oakville, Connecticut. At November 30, 2008, we have accrued approximately $0.2 million and $2.8 million for the Oakville and South Brunswick clean-ups, respectively, and we believe that these reserves are adequate. While uncertainty exists as to the ultimate resolution of these two environmental matters and we believe that the accruals recorded are adequate, in the event of an adverse decision by one or more of the governing environmental authorities or if additional contamination is discovered, these matters could have a material effect on our profitability. A change or deterioration in labor relations could disrupt our business or increase costs, which could lead to a material decline in sales or profitability. As of November 30, 2008, we had 4,817 full time employees. Approximately 58% of our employees at our 25 North American plants are represented by various labor unions with separate collective bargaining agreements. Our current collective bargaining agreements, which are typically three years in length, expire at various times beginning in 2009 through 2011. Due to the large number of collective bargaining agreements, we are periodically in negotiations with certain of the unions representing our employees. We may at some point be subject to work stoppages by some of our employees and, if such events were to occur, there may be a material adverse effect on our operations and profitability. Further, we may not be able to renew the various collective bargaining agreements on a timely basis or on favorable terms, or at all. Our pension plans are currently underfunded and we will be required to make cash payments to the plans, reducing the cash available for our business. We have noncontributory, defined benefit pension plans covering current and former hourly employees at four of our active plants and eight previously closed facilities as well as the employees of a facility of our Canadian operations and our manufacturing facility in France. We record a liability associated with these plans equal to the excess of the benefit obligation over the fair value of plan assets. The benefit liability recorded under the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 158 "Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)" at November 30, 2008 was $9.2 million, and we expect to make estimated minimum funding contributions totaling approximately $1.2 million in 2009. The amount of these estimated contributions has increased for our domestic pension plan for next year due, in part, to the underperformance of the plan assets relative to our expectations given the overall market downturn during fiscal 2008. If the performance of the assets in these pension plans does not meet our expectations, or if other actuarial assumptions are modified, our future cash payments to the plans could be higher than we expect. The domestic pension plan is subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, or ERISA. Under ERISA, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, or PBGC, has the authority to terminate an underfunded pension plan under limited circumstances. In the event our pension plan is terminated for any reason while it is underfunded, we will incur a liability to the PBGC that may be equal to the entire amount of the underfunding. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 19 