Item 1A. Risk Factors A substantial decrease in business from our significant customers could have a material adverse effect on our sales and market share. Our five largest customers on a consolidated basis accounted for approximately 36.1% of our net sales for fiscal 2012 with one customer representing more than 10% of net sales for fiscal 2012. While we believe our relationships with these customers are stable, many arrangements are made by purchase order or are terminable at will at the option of either party. A substantial decrease or interruption in business from our significant customers could result in material write-offs or loss of future business. The credit environment in which our customers operate has been relatively stable over the past few years. However, the continued management of credit risk by financial institutions has caused a decrease in the availability of credit for mattress retailers. In certain instances, this has caused mattress retailers to exit the market or be forced into bankruptcy. Furthermore, many of our customers rely in part on consumers' ability to finance their mattress purchases with credit from third parties. If customers are unable to obtain financing, they may defer their purchases. In the future, retailers may consolidate, restructure, reorganize or realign their affiliations, any of which could decrease the number of stores that carry our products or increase the ownership concentration in the retail industry. Some of these retailers may decide to carry only one brand of mattress products which could affect our ability to sell our products on favorable terms or to maintain or increase market share. As a result, our sales and profitability may decline. Our proposed merger with Tempur-Pedic may cause disruption in our business and, if the proposed merger does not occur, we will have incurred significant expenses, may need to pay a termination fee under the merger agreement and our stock price may decline. As previously disclosed, on September 26, 2012, the Company entered into a Merger Agreement with Tempur-Pedic pursuant to which a wholly-owned subsidiary of Tempur-Pedic will merge with and into the Company, resulting in the Company becoming a subsidiary of Tempur-Pedic. In connection 11 with the Merger, each share of the Company's common stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Merger will be converted into the right to receive $2.20 per share in cash. The Merger, whether or not consummated, may result in a loss of key personnel and may disrupt our sales and marketing, research and development, or other key business activities, which may have an impact on our financial performance. The Merger Agreement in general requires us to operate our business in the ordinary course pending consummation of the Merger, but includes certain contractual restrictions on the conduct of our business that may affect our ability to execute on our business strategies and attain our financial goals. Additionally, the Merger, whether or not consummated, may impact our relationships with third parties, including suppliers, distributors, customers and others. As more fully described in Note 26 to our consolidated financial statements and in the Merger Agrement with Tempur-Pedic, completion of the Merger is subject to several conditions, including (i) the adoption of the Merger Agreement by the affirmative vote or written consent of the holders of at least a majority of the outstanding shares of the Company's common stock which occurred when holders of greater than a majority of the Company's outstanding shares of common stock delivered a written consent on September 26, 2012; (ii) the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 ("HSR Act"); (iii) the clearance by the SEC of an information statement of the type contemplated by Rule 14c-2 promulgated under the Exchange Act related to the Merger and Merger Agreement, which after clearance must be sent to stockholders of the Company at least 20 days prior to the merger; (iv) the absence of a material adverse effect on the Company; and (v) other customary closing conditions. The Merger Agreement may be terminated by either the Company or Tempur-Pedic if the Merger has not been consummated by June 26, 2013 (subject to certain extensions) or if a court or other governmental entity of competent jurisdiction issues a final, non-appealable order permanently restraining, enjoining or otherwise prohibiting the Merger. In addition, among other things, Tempur-Pedic may, but is not required to, terminate the Merger Agreement if the Company enters into, or publicly proposes to enter into, an agreement relating to the acquisition by a third party of greater than 20% of the stock of the Company or greater than 20% of the consolidated assets or revenues of the Company and its subsidiaries. In case of such termination, Tempur-Pedic would be entitled to a break-up fee of $25.0 million. In addition, in certain circumstances when the Merger Agreement is terminated and upon such termination the applicable waiting period under the HSR Act has not expired or been terminated, Tempur-Pedic will be required to pay a reverse termination fee of either $90.0 million or $40.0 million to the Company, depending on the circumstances of such termination. Unfavorable economic conditions could continue to negatively affect our revenues and profitability. Our business, financial condition and results of operations have and may continue to be affected by various economic factors. Periods of economic uncertainty, such as the current economic climate and the recession experienced in 2008 and much of 2009, can lead to reduced consumer and business spending, including by our customers, and the purchasers of their products. Reduced access to credit has and may continue to adversely affect the ability of consumers to purchase our products from retailers. It has and may continue to adversely affect the ability of our customers to pay us. If such conditions are experienced in future periods, our industry, business and results of operations may be severely impacted. Our profitability may be materially affected by increases in the cost of petroleum-based products, steel and other raw materials. Our industry has been challenged by volatility in the price of petroleum-based and steel products, which affects the cost of our polyurethane foam, polyester, polyethylene foam and steel innerspring component parts. Domestic supplies of these raw materials are being limited by supplier consolidation, 12 the exporting of these raw materials outside of the U.S. due to the weakened dollar and other forces beyond our control. During fiscal 2012, the cost of these components increased in the third and fourth quarters as the price of TDI and Polyol increased. Given the significance of the cost of these materials to our products, volatility in the prices of the underlying commodities can significantly affect our profitability. The bedding industry is highly competitive, and if we are unable to compete effectively, we may lose customers and our sales may decline. The bedding industry is highly competitive, and we encounter competition from many manufacturers in both domestic and foreign markets. We, along with Simmons Company and Serta, Inc., accounted for approximately 52% of U.S. wholesale revenues in 2011, according to figures obtained from ISPA and Furniture/Today industry publications. The highly competitive nature of the bedding industry means we are continually subject to the risk of loss of our market share, loss of significant customers, reduction in margins, the inability for us to gain market share or acquire new customers, and difficulty in raising our prices. Some of our principal competitors have less debt than we do and may be better able to withstand changes in market conditions within the bedding industry. Additionally, we may encounter increased future competition and further consolidation in our industry which could magnify the competitive risks previously outlined. U.S. non-innerspring bedding has significantly increased market share at the expense of innerspring products over the past four years and less than 10% of our U.S. revenues are derived from such specialty bedding products. The largest specialty competitors are Tempur-pedic and Select Comfort which hold a combined U.S. market share of 19% in 2011. Failure to compete effectively against these companies could materially and adversely impact profitability. Our customer subsidies and advertising expenditures may not result in increased sales or generate the levels of product and brand name awareness we desire. A significant component of our marketing strategy involves the use of various incentive programs to our customers including volume discounts, promotional allowances, floor sample discounts, commissions paid to retail associates and slotting fees in addition to direct marketing. Future growth and profitability will depend in part on the cost and efficiency of our incentive program and advertising expenditures, including our ability to create greater awareness of our products and brand names, to determine the appropriate creative message and media mix for future advertising expenditures and to incent the promotion of our product. An increase in our product return rates or an inadequacy in our warranty reserves could reduce our liquidity and profitability. We receive returns of product from our customers for which the customer or consumer may receive a refund of the purchase price or replacement product. Our return rates may not remain within our historical levels. A downturn in general economic conditions may also increase our product return rates. An increase in return rates could significantly impair our liquidity and profitability. Our substantial level of indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness. We have substantial indebtedness. As of December 2, 2012, we had a total of $769.6 million of debt outstanding, including $263.6 million Senior Notes, $194.4 million Convertible Notes and $268.9 million senior subordinated notes due 2014 (the "2014 Notes"). We also have approximately $50.7 million of undrawn availability under the Amended ABL Revolver, after taking into account $17.4 million of outstanding letters of credit and borrowing base limitations. 13 Our outstanding indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: •limit our ability to pay dividends on our common stock; •make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our outstanding debt, including any repurchase obligations that may arise thereunder; •limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, restructuring, acquisitions or general corporate purposes, which could be exacerbated by further volatility in the credit markets; •require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest on our outstanding debt which will reduce the funds available to us for operations and other purposes; •place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that may have proportionately less debt; •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and •make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business. Any of the above listed factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The terms of our debt covenants could limit how we conduct our business and our ability to raise additional funds. The agreements that govern the terms of our debt, including the indentures that govern the Senior Notes, Convertible Notes, and 2014 Notes and the credit agreement that governs our Amended ABL Revolver, contain, and the agreements that govern our future indebtedness may contain, covenants that restrict our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to: •incur and guarantee indebtedness or issue preferred stock; •repay certain subordinated indebtedness prior to its stated maturity; •pay dividends or make other distributions on or redeem or repurchase our stock; •issue capital stock; •make certain investments or acquisitions; •create liens; •engage in most asset sales; •merge with or into other companies; •enter into certain transactions with stockholders and affiliates; •make capital expenditures; •make certain investments or acquisitions; and •restrict dividends, distributions or other payments from our subsidiaries. In addition, the Amended ABL Revolver agreement requires the Company to maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio in excess of 1.0 to 1.0 in periods of minimum availability under the facility where the availability for two consecutive calendar days is less than the greater of 1) 12.5% of the borrowing base under the Amended ABL Revolver and 2) $10.0 million. Our ability to meet the required fixed charge coverage ratio can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not be able to meet 14 this ratio. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the Amended ABL Revolver. Our day-to-day operations and decision making processes are highly dependent on our information technology infrastructure. A failure of these systems could have an adverse effect on our performance. We depend on accurate and timely information and numerical data from key software applications to aid our day-to-day business, financial reporting and decision-making and, in many cases, aged and custom-designed software is necessary to operate our bedding plants. We have put in place disaster recovery plans for our critical systems. However, we are dependent on certain key personnel and consultants as these applications are no longer supported by the vendor. Any disruptions caused by the failure of these systems could adversely impact our day-to-day business and decision making and could have a material adverse effect on our performance. The requirement to replace these systems would reduce our net income and adversely affect our cash flows. Our profitability may be materially and adversely affected by any interruption in supply from third party vendors. We purchase our raw materials and certain components from a variety of suppliers, including box spring components from Leggett & Platt Inc., foam materials from Carpenter Co., and various subassemblies and components from national raw material and component suppliers. If we experience a loss or disruption in our supply of these components, we may have difficulty sourcing substitute components on terms favorable to us. In addition, any alternate source may impair product performance or require us to alter our manufacturing process, which could have an adverse effect on our profitability. We are dependent upon a single supplier for the visco-elastic components and assembly of our Embody and Optimum by Sealy Posturepedic product lines. A disruption in the supply of these products and services could adversely affect our operations. We are dependent upon a single supplier for certain structural components and assembly of our Embody and Optimum by Sealy Posturepedic specialty product lines. These products are purchased under a supply agreement and are manufactured in accordance with proprietary designs jointly owned by us and the supplier. If we experience a loss or disruption in our supply of these products, we may have difficulty sourcing substitute components on terms favorable to us. In addition, any alternative source may impair product performance or require us to alter our manufacturing process, which could have an adverse effect on our profitability. The related product in which these components and assembly processes are used does not represent a significant portion of our overall sales. We are dependent upon a single supplier for certain polyurethane foam components in our mattress units. A disruption in the supply of these products and services could adversely affect our operations. We are dependent upon a single supplier for certain key polyurethane foam components which make up our various mattress brands. Such components are purchased under a supply agreement and are manufactured in accordance with proprietary process designs exclusive to the supplier. If we experience a loss or disruption in our supply of these components, we may have difficulty sourcing substitute components on terms favorable to us. In addition, any alternative source may impair product performance or require us to alter our manufacturing process, which could have an adverse effect on our profitability. 15 Our significant international operations are subject to foreign exchange, tariff, tax, inflation and political risks and our ability to expand in certain international markets is limited by the terms of licenses we have granted to manufacture and sell Sealy products. We currently conduct significant international operations and may pursue additional international opportunities. Our international operations are subject to the risks of operating in an international environment, including the potential imposition of trade or foreign exchange restrictions, tariff and other tax increases, fluctuations in exchange rates, inflation and unstable political situations. In certain international markets, we have granted licenses to manufacture and sell Sealy bedding products that limit our ability to expand in those areas. Our licensees in Australia, Jamaica and the United Kingdom have perpetual licenses, subject to limited termination rights. Our licensees in the Dominican Republic, Continental European Union countries,Turkey, Brazil, Columbia, Paraguay, India, Venezuela, Honduras, Columbia, Israel, Japan, Saudi Arabia, South Africa and Thailand hold licenses for fixed terms with limited renewal rights. Fluctuations in the rate of exchange between the U.S. dollar and other currencies may affect stockholders' equity and our financial condition or results of operations. Regulatory requirements relating to our products may increase our costs, alter our manufacturing processes and impair our product performance. Our products and raw materials are and will continue to be subject to regulation in the United States by various federal, state and local regulatory authorities. In addition, other governments and agencies in other jurisdictions regulate the sale and distribution of our products and raw materials. These rules and regulations may change from time to time. Compliance with these regulations may negatively impact our business. There may be continuing costs of regulatory compliance including continuous testing, additional quality control processes and appropriate auditing of design and process compliance. In February 2005, the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission ("CPSC") passed 16 CFR Part 1633 that effectively applies the California open flame standard, but added significant quality control, record keeping and testing requirements on mattress manufacturers, including Sealy. This rule became effective on July 1, 2007. Further, some states and the U.S. Congress continue to consider open flame regulations for mattresses and bed sets or integral components that may be different or more stringent than the CPSC standard and we may be required to make different products for different states or change our processes or distribution practices nationwide. It is possible that some states' more stringent standards, if adopted and enforceable, could make it difficult to manufacture a cost effective product in those jurisdictions and compliance with proposed new rules and regulations may increase our costs, alter our manufacturing processes and impair the performance of our products. In addition, our marketing and advertising practices could become the subject of proceedings before regulatory authorities or the subject of claims by other parties, which could require us to alter or end these practices or adopt new practices that are not as effective or are more expensive. The time and expense of defending against challenges to our trademarks, patents and other intellectual property could divert our management's attention and substantial financial resources from our business. Our goodwill and ability to differentiate our products in the marketplace could be negatively affected if we were unsuccessful in defending against such challenges. We hold over 910 worldwide trademarks, which we believe have significant value and are important to the marketing of our products to customers. We own 92 U.S. patents, including 30 patents pending, a number of which have been registered in a total of 30 countries. In addition, we own U.S. and foreign registered trade names and service marks and have applications for the registration of trade names and service marks pending domestically and abroad. We also own several U.S. copyright 16 registrations, and a wide array of unpatented proprietary technology and know-how. We also license certain intellectual property rights from third parties. Our ability to compete effectively with other companies depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our owned and licensed intellectual property. Although our trademarks are currently registered in the United States and registered or pending in 122 foreign countries, we still face risks that our trademarks may be circumvented or violate the proprietary rights of others and we may be prevented from using our trademarks if challenged. A challenge to our use of our trademarks could result in a negative ruling regarding our use of our trademarks, their validity or their enforceability, or could prove expensive and time consuming in terms of legal costs and time spent defending against such a challenge. In addition, we may not have the financial resources necessary to enforce or defend our trademarks. We also face risks as to the degree of protection offered by the various patents, the likelihood that patents will be issued for pending patent applications or, with regard to licensed intellectual property, that the licenses will not be terminated. If we were unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our intellectual property and our significant current or proposed products, our goodwill and ability to differentiate our products in the marketplace could be negatively affected and our market share and profitability could be materially and adversely affected. Our new product launches may not be successful due to development delays, failure of new products to achieve anticipated levels of market acceptance and significant costs associated with failed product introductions, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Each year we invest significant time and resources in research and development to improve our product offerings. There are a number of risks inherent in our new product line introductions, such as, the anticipated level of market acceptance may not be realized, which could negatively impact our sales. Also, introduction costs, the speed of the rollout of the product and manufacturing inefficiencies may be greater than anticipated, which could impact our profitability. Environmental, health and safety requirements could expose us to material liabilities and changes in our operations as a result of environmental contamination, among other things. As a manufacturer of bedding and related products, we use and dispose of a number of substances, such as glue, lubricating oil, solvents and other petroleum products, as well as certain foam ingredients that may subject us to regulation under numerous federal and state statutes governing the environment (including those environmental regulations that are applicable to our current and previously owned foreign operations such as Argentina, Brazil, Canada, France, Italy, Mexico, Uruguay and other jurisdictions). Among other statutes, we are subject to the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Clean Air Act and related state statutes and regulations. As we abide by certain new open flame regulations, our products and processes may be governed more rigorously by certain state and federal environmental and OSHA standards as well as the provisions of California Proposition 65 and 16 CFR Part 1633. We have made and will continue to make capital and other expenditures to comply with environmental requirements. We also have incurred and will continue to incur costs related to certain remediation activities. Under various environmental laws, we may be held liable for the costs of remediating releases of hazardous substances at any properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or at any site to which we sent hazardous substances for disposal. We are currently addressing the clean-up of environmental contamination at our former facility in Oakville, Connecticut and our former facility in South Brunswick, New Jersey. At December 2, 2012, we have accrued approximately $0.1 million and $1.6 million for the Oakville and South Brunswick clean-ups, respectively, and we believe that these reserves are adequate. In addition, we are awaiting additional information regarding an alleged environmental condition at a former facility located in Putnam, 17 Connecticut. While uncertainty exists as to the ultimate resolution of these two environmental matters and we believe that the accruals recorded are adequate, in the event of an adverse decision by one or more of the governing environmental authorities or if additional contamination is discovered, these matters could have a material effect on our profitability. A change or deterioration in labor relations could disrupt our business or increase costs, which could lead to a material decline in sales or profitability. As of December 2, 2012, we had 4,267 full time employees. Approximately 68% of our employees at our 25 North American plants are represented by various labor unions with separate collective bargaining agreements. Our current collective bargaining agreements, which are typically three years in length, expire at various times beginning in 2013 through 2015. Due to the large number of collective bargaining agreements, we are periodically in negotiations with certain of the unions representing our employees. We may at some point be subject to work stoppages by some of our employees and, if such events were to occur, there may be a material adverse effect on our operations and profitability. Further, we may not be able to renew the various collective bargaining agreements on a timely basis or on favorable terms, or at all. We may experience fluctuations in our operating results due to seasonality, which could make sequential quarter to quarter comparisons an unreliable indication of our performance. We have historically experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, seasonal and quarterly fluctuations in net sales and operating income. As is the case with many bedding customers, the retail business is subject to seasonal influences, characterized by strong sales for the months of June through September, which impacts our third fiscal quarter results. Our third fiscal quarter sales are typically 5% to 15% higher than other fiscal quarters. Our first fiscal quarter cash flows are typically the most unfavorable due to working capital demands and coupon payments on our senior subordinated notes which consist of an original $314 million aggregate principal amount maturing June 15, 2014, bearing interest of 8.25% per annum payable semi-annually (the "2014 Notes"). This seasonality means that a sequential quarter to quarter comparison may not be a good indication of our performance or of how we will perform in the future. The loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management team could impair our ability to execute our business strategy and adversely affect our business. We are dependent on the continued services of our senior management team, most of whom have substantial industry specific experience. The simultaneous loss of several of our key personnel could impair our ability to execute our business strategy and have a material adverse effect on our business. See also Item 1A, "Risk Factors"—"Our proposed merger with Tempur-Pedic may cause disruption in our business and, if the proposed merger does not occur, we will have incurred significant expenses, may need to pay a termination fee under the merger agreement and our stock price may decline." Despite our current leverage, we may still be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks that we and our subsidiaries face. The terms of the Amended ABL Revolver agreement and the indentures governing our Senior Notes, Convertible Notes and 2014 Notes will restrict us and our subsidiaries from incurring substantial additional indebtedness in the future, but will not completely prohibit us from doing so. Our Amended ABL Revolver provides for revolving credit financing of up to $100.0 million, subject to borrowing base availability. At December 2, 2012, we have $50.7 million of undrawn availability under the Amended ABL Revolver, after taking into account $17.4 million of letters of credit and borrowing base limitations. These restrictions are subject to a number of important qualifications and exceptions and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. If new debt is added to our existing debt levels, the related risks that we now face, including those described above, could intensify. 18 A breach of the covenants or restrictions under our debt agreements and indentures governing our outstanding notes could result in a default under the applicable indebtedness. Such default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. In addition, an event of default under our Amended ABL Revolver would permit the lenders under our Amended ABL Revolver to terminate all commitments to extend further credit under that facility. Furthermore, if we were unable to repay the amounts due and payable under our Amended ABL Revolver, those lenders could proceed against the Collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. In the event our lenders and noteholders accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we cannot assure that we and our subsidiaries would have sufficient assets to repay such indebtedness. As a result of these restrictions we may be: •limited in how we conduct our business; •unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to operate during general economic or business downturns; or •unable to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. These restrictions may affect our ability to grow in accordance with our plans. We are a holding company and rely on dividends, interest and other payments, advances and transfers of funds from our subsidiaries to enable us to pay dividends. We are a holding company and conduct all of our operations through our subsidiaries and currently have no significant assets other than the capital stock of Sealy Mattress Corporation. As a result, we rely on dividends and other payments or distributions from our subsidiaries to enable us to pay dividends. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments or distributions to us will depend on their respective operating results and may be restricted by, among other things, the laws of their jurisdiction of organization (which may limit the amount of funds available for the payment of dividends), agreements of those subsidiaries and the covenants of any existing and future outstanding indebtedness we or our subsidiaries incur, including Sealy Mattress Company's Amended ABL Revolver agreement and the indentures governing the Senior Notes, Convertible Notes and 2014 Notes. For instance, the agreement governing Sealy Mattress Company's Amended ABL Revolver contains restrictions on the ability of Sealy Mattress Corporation to pay dividends or make other distributions to us subject to specified exceptions including the satisfaction of a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio and average daily availability levels. We are therefore limited in our ability to pay a dividend. In addition, the indentures governing the Senior Notes and the 2014 Notes contain restrictions on the ability of Sealy Mattress Company to pay dividends or make other distributions to Sealy Mattress Corporation subject to specified exceptions including an amount based upon 50% of cumulative consolidated net income from the issue date of the notes. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flow from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital, or seek to restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to sell material assets 19 or operations to attempt to meet our debt service and other obligations. The Amended ABL Revolver agreement and the indentures governing our Senior Notes, Convertible Notes and 2014 Notes will restrict our ability to use the proceeds from asset sales. We may not be able to consummate those asset sales to raise capital or sell assets at prices that we believe are fair and proceeds that we do receive may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. Changes in tax laws and regulations or other factors could cause our income tax rate to increase, potentially reducing our net income and adversely affecting our cash flows. We are subject to taxation in various jurisdictions around the world. In preparing our financial statements, we calculate our effective income tax rate based on current tax laws and regulations and the estimated taxable income within each of these jurisdictions. Our effective income tax rate, however, may be higher due to numerous factors, including changes in tax laws or regulations. A significantly higher effective income tax rate could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and liquidity. Officials in some of the jurisdictions in which we do business, including the United States, have proposed, or announced that they are reviewing tax increases and other revenue raising laws and regulations. Any resulting changes in tax laws or regulations could impose new restrictions, costs or prohibitions on our current practices and reduce our net income and adversely affect our cash flows. Our pension plans are currently underfunded and we will be required to make cash payments to the plans, reducing the cash available for our business. We have noncontributory, defined benefit pension plans covering current and former hourly employees at four of our active plants and eight previously closed facilities as well as the employees of a facility of our Canadian operations. We record a liability associated with these plans equal to the excess of the benefit obligation over the fair value of plan assets. The benefit liability recorded at December 2, 2012 was $16.5 million, and we expect to make estimated minimum funding contributions totaling approximately $2.8 million in 2013. If the performance of the assets in these pension plans does not meet our expectations, or if other actuarial assumptions are modified, our future cash payments to the plans could be higher than we expect. The domestic pension plan is subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, or ERISA. Under ERISA, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, or PBGC, has the authority to terminate an underfunded pension plan under limited circumstances. In the event our pension plan is terminated for any reason while it is underfunded, we will incur a liability to the PBGC that may be equal to the entire amount of the underfunding. In addition, hourly employees working at certain of the Sealy's domestic manufacturing facilities are covered by union sponsored retirement and health and welfare plans. These plans cover both active employees and retirees. If a participating employer ceases its contributions to the plan, the unfunded obligations of the plan allocable to the withdrawing employer may be borne by the remaining participant employers. Further, if the Company withdraws from a multi-employer pension plans in which it participates, the Company may be required to pay those plans an amount based on its allocable share of the underfunded status of the plan. Such events may significantly impair our profitability and liquidity. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 