ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This report and other reports filed by us with the Securities and Exchange Commission contain certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of certain uncertainties set forth below and elsewhere in this report, as well as additional risks and uncertainties of which we are currently unaware. See Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Forward Looking Statements". RISKS RELATING TO THE COMPANY WE ARE HEAVILY DEPENDENT UPON THE CONTINUANCE OF MILITARY SPENDING AS A SOURCE OF REVENUE AND INCOME. A significant amount of all the products we manufacture are used in military applications. The attacks of September 11, 2001 and subsequent world events have led the U.S. Government to increase the level of military spending necessary for domestic and overseas security. However, due to the current financial crisis, the U.S. Government has directed vast amounts of funds to support those areas of our economy that are under considerable strain. Due to budget constraints, these actions could potentially have an adverse impact on the level of future defense spending. We are heavily dependent upon military spending as a source of revenues and income. Accordingly, any substantial future reductions in overall military spending by the U.S. Government could have a material adverse effect on our sales and earnings. TIGHT LENDING CONDITIONS COULD AFFECT OUR OPERATIONS. As a result of lower profitability related to customer shipping delays in the first and second quarter of 2008, the Company was not in compliance with two of its financial covenants at September 30, 2008. In November 2008, the Company's primary lender waived the covenant default of two of its financial ratios at September 30, 2008 and the Company renegotiated the financial covenant ratios for the quarterly reporting periods December 31, 2008 and March 31, 2009. Beginning June 30, 2009, the covenants will revert back to their original ratios with a modification to a certain financial ratio covenant definition. The Company was in compliance with all its financial covenants at December 31, 2008. However, as a result of the recent financial crisis, all lending institutions have re-evaluated their lending conditions and existing loans are under greater scrutiny. In addition, our primary lender Merrill Lynch Commercial Finance Corp. is now owned by Bank of America and with this change of ownership and accompanying losses it is more uncertain whether any covenant defaults will be waived in the future. Accordingly, in the event that the Company incurs a reduction in expected profitability in the future that causes another covenant default, there is no assurance that its lender will waive such covenant default or renegotiate the financial covenants. In addition, they could impose severe restrictions on how the Company would operate its business as well as higher lending costs which could further reduce profitability. CURRENT WORLDWIDE ECONOMIC CONDITIONS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Current worldwide economic conditions which may still worsen, make it difficult for our customers, our vendors and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities which, among other things, caused us to stop issuing guidance forecasts. Such economic conditions could cause both government and commercial customers to extend deliveries on existing contracts. We cannot predict the timing or duration of the current economic slowdown or the timing or strength of a subsequent economic recovery, worldwide, or in the United States. If there is further economic deterioration, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, our stock price has continued to decrease from the lack of investor confidence in the securities markets which have been negatively impacted by the worldwide economic downturn. WE COULD ENCOUNTER DIFFICULTIES IN PROCURING CONTRACTS BECAUSE OF A REDUCTION IN THE LEVEL OF INDUSTRY-WIDE FUNDING AND PRICING PRESSURES. We continue to pursue many business opportunities, including programs in which we have previously participated but, in the event of industry-wide funding and pricing pressures, we could encounter delays in the awards of these contracts. We continue to seek new contracts which require incurring up-front design, engineering, prototype and pre-production costs. While we are attempting to negotiate contract awards for reimbursement of product development, there is no assurance that sufficient monies will be set aside by our customers, including the U.S. Government, for such effort. In addition, even if the U.S. Government agrees to reimburse development costs, there is still a significant risk of cost overrun, which may not be reimbursable. Furthermore, once we have completed the design and pre-production stage, there is no assurance that funding will be provided for future production. A significant amount of our contracts are subject to termination at the convenience of the U.S. Government. Orders under U.S. Government prime contracts or subcontracts are customarily subject to termination at the convenience of the U.S. Government, in which event the contractor is normally entitled to reimbursement for allowable costs and a reasonable allowance for profits, unless the termination of a contract was due to a default on the part of the contractor. WE ARE DEPENDENT ON CERTAIN OF OUR CUSTOMERS AND WE DO NOT HAVE ANY LONG-TERM CONTRACTS WITH THESE CUSTOMERS. Various agencies of the United States Government and BAE Systems accounted for approximately 27%, and 11%, respectively, of consolidated net sales of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2008. Various agencies of the U.S. Government, BAE Systems and General Dynamics, Inc. accounted for approximately 36%, 17% and 10%, respectively, of the net sales of our Electronics Group for the year ended December 31, 2008. Various agencies of the U.S. Government and Baker Hughes Inc. accounted for approximately 12%, and 10%, respectively, of the net sales of our Power Group for the year ended December 31, 2008. We do not have any significant long-term contracts with any of the above-mentioned customers. The loss of any of these customers would have a material adverse effect on our net sales and earnings. Due to major consolidations in the defense industry, it has become more difficult to avoid dependence on certain customers for revenue and income. However, the sales to many of our prime contractors may consist of sales to various units or divisions within that Company. WE ARE DEPENDENT UPON OUR SENIOR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND KEY PERSONNEL FOR THE OPERATION OF OUR BUSINESS. We are dependent for the operation of our business on the experience, technology knowledge, abilities and continued services of our senior officers, Dennis Sunshine, President and Chief Executive Officer, Bruce Reissman, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, and Mitchell Binder, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer as well as the Chief Operating Officers at each of our operating units. The loss of services of any of such persons would be expected to have a material adverse effect upon our business and/or our prospects. Our future success is dependent upon, among other things, the successful recruitment and retention of key personnel including executive officers, for sales, marketing, finance and operations. We face significant competition for skilled and technical talent. No assurance can be made that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. If we are unable to retain existing key employees or hire new employees upon acceptable terms when necessary, our business could potentially be adversely affected. WE MAY NOT BE SUCCESSFUL IN OUR EXPANSION EFFORTS. Part of our business strategy is to expand our operations through strategic acquisitions. Through the past several years, we reviewed various potential acquisitions and believe there are numerous opportunities presently available, although there was increased competition among private equity firms and other entities seeking similar type acquisitions. In April 2005, we completed the acquisition of Tulip and in December 2007, we completed the acquisition of ICS. However, due to current economic conditions and the financial crisis, it will be increasingly difficult to secure financing in the event we should identify a suitable acquisition candidate. Even if we were able to obtain the necessary financing to complete additional acquisitions, there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient income from operations of such acquired companies to satisfy the interest payments, in which case, we will be required to pay them out of Orbit's operations which may be adversely affected. Furthermore, there can be no assurance we will be able to successfully complete the integration of any future acquired business and that such acquisition will be profitable and enable us to grow our business. WE MAY NOT RECOVER ALL COSTS RESULTING FROM EARLY TERMINATION OF UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS Orders under United States Government prime contracts or subcontracts are customarily subject to termination at the convenience of the U.S. Government, in which event the contractor is normally entitled to reimbursement for allowable costs and a reasonable allowance for profits, unless the termination of a contract was due to a default on the part of the contractor. The Company may commit significant funds for non-recurring costs associated with a contract. Upon an early termination the Company may not recover a significant portion of such non-recurring costs. Although the one early termination of a U.S. Government contract during the last two years did not have a material adverse affect on the Company's business or financial condition, there can be no assurance this will not occur in the future. WE HAVE HAD AND MAY CONTINUE TO HAVE IMPAIRMENT OF GOODWILL The Company has significant intangible assets related to goodwill and other acquired intangibles. In determining the recoverability of goodwill and other intangibles, assumptions are made regarding estimated future cash flows and other factors to determine the fair value of the assets. After completing the impairment testing of goodwill and other intangible assets pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" ("SFAS 142"), the Company concluded an impairment charge of $6,889,000 should be taken at December 31, 2008 in connection with the recorded goodwill arising from its acquisitions made between 2005 and 2007. This impairment charge was also driven by a decrease in the Company's market capitalization caused by current economic conditions and the financial crisis. If estimates or their related assumptions used in the current testing change in the future, or should the Company's market capitalization decrease further due to deteriorating market conditions, the Company may be required to record further impairment charges for those assets not previously recorded. WE MAY HAVE DIFFICULTY PROCURING CERTAIN RAW MATERIALS ON TERMS SATISFACTORY TO US. We use multiple sources for our procurement of our raw materials and we are not dependent on any suppliers for such procurement. Occasionally, however, in the production of certain military units, we may be faced with procuring certain components that are either obsolete or difficult to procure. Although we believe that with our access to worldwide brokers using the Internet we can obtain the necessary components, there can be no assurance that such components will be available, and even if so, at reasonable prices. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable, as the Company is a smaller reporting company. 