ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This report and other reports filed by us with the Securities and Exchange Commission contain certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of certain uncertainties set forth below and elsewhere in this report, as well as additional risks and uncertainties of which we are currently unaware. See Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Forward Looking Statements". RISKS RELATING TO THE COMPANY WE ARE HEAVILY DEPENDENT UPON THE CONTINUANCE OF MILITARY SPENDING AS A SOURCE OF REVENUE AND INCOME. A significant amount of all the products we manufacture are used in military applications. The attacks of September 11, 2001 and subsequent world events have led the U.S. Government to increase the level of military spending necessary for domestic and overseas security. We are heavily dependent upon military spending as a source of revenues and income. Accordingly, any substantial future reductions in overall military spending by the U.S. Government could have a material adverse effect on our sales and earnings. WE COULD ENCOUNTER DIFFICULTIES IN PROCURING CONTRACTS BECAUSE OF A REDUCTION IN THE LEVEL OF INDUSTRY-WIDE FUNDING AND PRICING PRESSURES. We continue to pursue many business opportunities, including programs in which we have previously participated but, in the event of industry-wide funding and pricing pressures, we could encounter delays in the awards of these contracts. We continue to seek new contracts which require incurring up-front design, engineering, prototype and pre-production costs. While we are attempting to negotiate contract awards for reimbursement of product development, there is no assurance that sufficient monies will be set aside by our customers, including the U.S. Government, for such effort. In addition, even if the U.S. Government agrees to reimburse development costs, there is still a significant risk of cost overrun, which may not be reimbursable. Furthermore, once we have completed the design and pre-production stage, there is no assurance that funding will be provided for future production. A significant amount of our contracts are subject to termination at the convenience of the U.S. Government. Orders under U.S. Government prime contracts or subcontracts are customarily subject to termination at the convenience of the U.S. Government, in which event the contractor is normally entitled to reimbursement for allowable costs and a reasonable allowance for profits, unless the termination of a contract was due to a default on the part of the contractor. WE ARE DEPENDENT ON CERTAIN OF OUR CUSTOMERS AND WE DO NOT HAVE ANY LONG-TERM CONTRACTS WITH THESE CUSTOMERS. A unit of BAE Systems, various agencies of the United States Government, and Raytheon Company, accounted for approximately 14%, 12%, and 10%, respectively, of consolidated net sales of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2007. A unit of BAE Systems, various agencies of the U.S. Government, Raytheon Company, Lockheed Martin and Rockwell Collins, Inc., accounted for approximately 20%, 15%, 15%, 11% and 10%, respectively, of the net sales of our Electronics Group for the year ended December 31, 2007. Telephonics, Inc. and Baker Hughes Inc., accounted for approximately 16%, and 10%, respectively, of the net sales of our Power Group for the year ended December 31, 2007. We do not have any significant long-term contracts with any of the above-mentioned customers. The loss of any of these customers would have a material adverse effect on our net sales and earnings. Due to major consolidations in the defense industry, it has become more difficult to avoid dependence on certain customers for revenue and income. WE ARE DEPENDENT UPON OUR SENIOR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND KEY PERSONNEL FOR THE OPERATION OF OUR BUSINESS. We are dependent for the operation of our business on the experience, technology knowledge, abilities and continued services of our senior officers, Dennis Sunshine, President and Chief Executive Officer, Bruce Reissman, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, and Mitchell Binder, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer as well as the Chief Operating Officers at each of our operating units. The loss of services of any of such persons would be expected to have a material adverse effect upon our business and/or our prospects. Our future success is dependent upon, among other things, the successful recruitment and retention of key personnel including executive officers, for sales, marketing, finance and operations. We face significant competition for skilled and technical talent. No assurance can be made that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. If we are unable to retain existing key employees or hire new employees upon acceptable terms when necessary, our business could potentially be adversely affected. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO EFFECTIVELY MANAGE OUR RECENT ACQUISITION. We may face challenges managing our recent acquisition of ICS together with our other existing operations in different geographic locations. These risks include the integration of ICS with the operations, technologies and management of the Company and the attendant risks associated with such acquisition, including possible unanticipated liabilities, unanticipated costs, and diversion of management attention. There can be no assurance that we will successfully integrate or profitably manage ICS's business, that our consolidated business will achieve sales levels, profitability, efficiencies or synergies that justify the ICS acquisition, or that ICS will result in increased earnings for us in any future period. We may not be able to manage all of our combined operations effectively, and failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and/or operating results. WE MAY NOT BE SUCCESSFUL IN OUR EXPANSION EFFORTS. Part of our business strategy is to expand our operations through strategic acquisitions. Through the past several years, we reviewed various potential acquisitions and believe there are numerous opportunities presently available, although there is increased competition among private equity firms and other entities seeking similar type acquisitions. In April 2005, we completed the acquisition of Tulip and in December 2007, we completed the acquisition of ICS. While there can be no assurance we will obtain the necessary financing to complete additional acquisitions, even if we do, there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient income from operations of such acquired companies to satisfy the interest payments, in which case, we will be required to pay them out of Orbit's operations which may be adversely affected. Furthermore, there can be no assurance we will be able to successfully complete the integration of any future acquired business and that such acquisition will be profitable and enable us to grow our business. WE MAY HAVE DIFFICULTY PROCURING CERTAIN RAW MATERIALS ON TERMS SATISFACTORY TO US. We use multiple sources for our procurement of our raw materials and we are not dependent on any suppliers for such procurement. Occasionally, however, in the production of certain military units, we may be faced with procuring certain components that are either obsolete or difficult to procure. Although we believe that with our access to worldwide brokers using the Internet we can obtain the necessary components, there can be no assurance that such components will be available, and even if so, at reasonable prices. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 