D. Risk factors Investors should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below before making an investment decision. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially harmed. This could cause the trading price of our common shares to decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH FINANCIAL RESULTS The Company’s inability to generate sufficient cash flows from its operations may affect its ability to continue as a going concern. The Company’s consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, which presumes the realization of assets and the settlement of liabilities in the normal course of operations. The application of the going concern basis is dependent upon the Company having sufficient available cash resources and achieving profitable operations to generate sufficient cash flows to fund continued operations. Should the Company fail to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, it will require additional financing to remain a going concern. At December 31, 2010, the Company has accumulated a deficit of $25,737,011. The Company has generated net profit from its continued operations from the fourth quarter of 2006 through to the fourth quarter of 2010. However, this cannot be used as an indication of the Company’s future performance. 7 The Company’s inability to accurately forecast its results from quarter to quarter may affect its cash resources and result in wide fluctuations in the market price of the Company's stock. The operating results have varied on a quarterly basis in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are described below. Due to these and other factors, most of which are outside of the Company’s control, the quarterly revenues and operating results are difficult to forecast. As a result, the Company may not be able to accurately predict its necessary cash expenditures during each quarter or obtain financing in a timely manner to cover any shortfalls. The Company also believes that period-to-period comparisons of its operating results may not be meaningful and one should not rely on any such comparisons as an indication of its future performance. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS The Company recognizes the threats posed by the current credit crisis and global recession, but cannot guarantee that it will be able to successfully navigate through the current downturn. The current global economic deterioration has impacted companies across a wide spectrum of industries, and the satellite communications industry is not immune to the recessionary trends. To succeed, the Company must be able to control spending and prudently allocate financial resources to optimize value. To drive sales, the satellite products must meet the needs of the Company’s existing and potential customers and be competitively priced, additional judgement will need to be exercised if the granting of credit to customers is required to close the transaction. In view of the current difficulty, both in obtaining credit and accessing the capital markets, stewardship of cash continues to be critical to the success of the Company. The Company cannot be sure it will be able to identify emerging technology and market trends, enhance its existing technologies or develop new technologies in order to effectively compete in the satellite communications industry. The satellite communications industry is characterized by rapid technological changes, short technology and product life cycles, pressure to provide improved solutions at increasingly lower prices and frequent introduction of new technologies and products. To succeed, the Company must be able to identify emerging trends and enhance its existing technologies and develop new technologies and products to meet market requirements. To drive sales, the satellite products must meet the needs of the Company’s existing and potential customers and be competitively priced. Additionally, there must be sufficient interest in and demand for the Company’s products. If the Company does not develop these new technologies and products in a timely and cost effective manner, or if others develop new technologies ahead of the Company, the Company will not achieve profitability in the satellite communications industry and it may not be able to participate in selling these new technologies or products. While the Company is able to continue to develop products with funding contributions from the Canadian Federal Government through the SADI program; without the SADI program contribution, the Company’s product development costs would not be sustainable, thereby jeopardizing the Company’s ability to maintain product innovation and leadership. The Company has customer concentration. A significant portion of the Company’s revenues have been recognized from a limited number of customers. While the Company has been diversifying its customer base, the efforts to date may be insufficient to offset the effects of the quarterly variance of sales and delays associated with selling to the Government sector. The Company expects that a majority of the Satellite Systems revenues will continue to be dependent on sales to a small number of customers. The Company also expect that customers will vary from period-to-period as existing customers are under no obligation to continue buying from Norsat. The Company cannot be sure that it will be able to compete effectively with the current competitors. The satellite communications industry is intensely competitive. Some competitors have technologies and products that may be more advantageous and compete directly with the Company. Some of these competitors are large, established companies which have significantly greater resources than those of the Company. 8 The Company’s ability to compete effectively will depend on its ability to increase sales; attract new customers in a timely and cost effective manner and sell these products at competitive prices. The Company is dependent on others for the supply and manufacture of components and products it sells. The Company has outsourced substantially all of the manufacturing of the microwave products it sells; and for some of its portable satellite systems, the Company relies on its suppliers to provide components for the production of these satellite systems. If either the manufacturers or suppliers cannot deliver products to the Company on time, its revenues and profits will be adversely affected. The Company has limited intellectual property protection. The Company’s success and ability to compete are dependent, in part, upon its proprietary technology, brand and reputation in the marketplace, and customer relationships. While the Company currently holds three patents (US Patents # 6,931,245 and 7,218,289; European Patent #1 184 930) and has applied for patent protection on certain other parts of its technology, it relies primarily on trade secrets and does not have adequate trademark and patent protection on all of its technology. The Company also enters into confidentiality, and non-compete agreements with its employees and limits the access to and distribution of the product design documentation and other proprietary information. The Company cannot be sure that these efforts will deter misappropriation or prevent an unauthorized third party, including former associates and former employees, from obtaining or using information, which it deems to be proprietary. Although the Company believes that its technology does not currently infringe upon patents or trademarks held by others, the Company cannot be sure that such infringements do not exist or will not exist in the future, particularly as the number of products and competitors in its industry segment grows. If the Company experiences rapid growth and does not manage it effectively, profitability may be affected. If its technologies and products achieve widespread acceptance the Company may experience rapid growth. This growth may require the Company to hire more employees, recruit additional management, improve the Company’s financial control systems, and expand and manage the technical, sales and support service operations. The Company would need increased revenues and additional funding to operate these increased activities. If the Company does not manage its growth effectively, its profitability may be impacted. The Company has had high employee turnover. In 2008, thirteen employees departed and were replaced. In 2009, twelve employees departed and were replaced. In addition, the Company added four employees to increase capacity in order to meet customer demand. High employee turnover affects knowledge retention, the effectiveness of processes, the value of existing intellectual property, and the ability to hire qualified candidates and maintain the healthy relationships with outside parties. In 2010, The Company’s CFO left the Company and a replacement was appointed. Also, in 2010, fifteen employees left the company and twenty one employees were hired or replaced existing positions. The Company continues to evolve its hiring practices and is actively working on improving the work culture and its image in the community. The Company cannot be sure that these efforts will be successful in reducing employee turnover. The Company depends on its key employees and it cannot be sure that it will be able to keep these employees or hire and train replacements. Our success depends on the skills, experience and performance of the senior management and other key personnel. While it offers competitive compensation packages and stock options to attract key employees, the Company does not carry key person insurance on these employees. Highly skilled technical employees and management in the satellite communications industry are in demand and the market for such persons is highly competitive. The Company cannot be sure that it will be able to retain these employees or hire replacements. If the Company does not successfully retain the key personnel or hire and train replacements it will be unable to develop the new products and technologies necessary to compete in its markets or to effectively manage its business. 9 The Company intends to expand its international operations, and thus faces a number of risks including tariffs, export controls and other trade barriers; political and economic instability in foreign markets; and fluctuations in foreign currencies. These external risks may not be under the Company’s control. Additional human and financial resources may be required for this expansion which the Company may not be able to attract or afford. Failure to expand internationally may impact the Company’s prospects for revenue growth and profitability. The Company sells products which may, in certain instances, be subject to export and/or re-export restrictions. The export laws of the governments of Canada and United States apply to products that the Company sells. The United States Department of Commerce, through its Export Administration Regulations (EAR), and the Government of Canada, through its Export Controls Division, regulate exports and re-exports of "dual-use" items, i.e., goods, software and technologies with commercial and proliferation/ military applications. In ascertaining whether such items may be subject to export control restrictions, the Company is sometime forced to rely on information in the specifications of certain components from the manufacturers and vendors. Should this information later prove to be incorrect, the Company may be subjected to penalties and fines. It may also be subjected to penalties and fines should there be a breach in the processes. The Company buys components and products which may, in certain instances, be subject to contractual obligations to purchase minimum quantities during a given period, maintain resale records and abide by certain resale restrictions. Failure to fulfil any or all of these may negatively impact liquidity should the Company be forced to take ownership of any un-purchased units. It may also affect the Company’s ability to continue supplying products as originally specified and thus affect obligations to fulfil orders. The Company may be subject to product liability claims, which are not fully covered by insurance. The manufacture, sale and marketing of the Company’s satellite products expose us to the risk of product liability claims. Given the complex nature of our products, the products may contain undetected errors or performance problems may arise. Although the Company’s products undergo testing prior to release into the market, it is possible that such products may yet still contain errors and performance problems, which are discovered only after commercial introduction. If these defects and errors are discovered after shipment, they could result in a loss of sales revenues, delay in market acceptance, product returns, warranty claims and the loss of a potential market. In addition, components and other products manufactured and distributed by others, which are incorporated into the Company’s products, may also contain such defects and errors, which could substantially reduce the performance of the products. The Company is also at risk of exposure to potential product liability claims from distributors and end-users for damages resulting from defects in products that it distributes. Although product defects have not been a significant factor, the Company maintains comprehensive general liability insurance which provides limited coverage against claims originating in product failure. We cannot be sure that this insurance will be adequate to cover all claims brought against us or that this insurance will continue to be available to us on acceptable terms. If these claims are not fully covered by the Company’s product liability insurance, they could severely and negatively impact the business liability insurance coverage and the available cash resources. A product liability claim, even one without merit or for which the Company has substantial coverage, could result in significant legal defence costs, thereby increasing the expenses, lowering the earnings and, depending on revenues, potentially resulting in additional losses. The Company’s operations may be disrupted by natural disasters and extreme weather conditions. The Company’s headquarters is located in the Greater Vancouver region which has, in recent times, been subjected to high winds and extreme weather conditions. While the Company has managed to continue operating through some of these conditions, employee productivity during these periods is negatively impacted. Experts are also expecting a major earthquake in this region; a significant natural disaster may have the effect of paralysing the Company’s operations for an indefinite period. 10 Long sales and implementation cycles for our products may adversely affect our operating results. Our customers generally devote substantial time, money and other resources to their purchasing decisions. Typically, the larger the potential sale, the more time, money and other resources will be invested. As a result, it may take many months or a few years after our first contact with a customer before a sale may actually be completed. We may invest significant sales and other resources in a potential customer that may not generate revenue for a substantial period of time, if at all. Long sales and implementation cycles may affect the size or timing of the order or even cause it to be cancelled. For example, purchasing decisions may be postponed, or large purchases reduced, during periods of economic uncertainty; we or our competitors may announce or introduce new products; or the customer’s own budget and purchasing needs may change. In addition, long sales and implementation cycles may impact the margins we earn on our products. It may cost us more to produce our products by the time the purchasing decision is made due to increased supply costs or currency fluctuations. If these events were to occur, sales of our products may be cancelled or delayed, which would reduce our revenue. Mergers or other strategic transactions by our competitors could weaken our competitive position or reduce our revenue. If one or more of our competitors were to merge or partner with another of our competitors, the change in the competitive landscape could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. Our competitors may also establish or strengthen co-operative relationships with our existing or prospective clients, thereby limiting our ability to promote our products and services. Disruptions in our business caused by these events could reduce our competitiveness and ultimately our revenue. If our suppliers do not supply us with a sufficient amount and quality of components at acceptable prices, and in a timely manner, our ability to manufacture our products would be harmed and our business would suffer. We rely on third-party suppliers to provide components and product subassemblies based on our designs. A supplier’s failure to supply components or product subassemblies in a timely manner, or failure to supply components or product subassemblies that meet our quality, quantity or cost requirements, or our inability to obtain substitute sources of these components or product subassemblies in a timely manner or on terms acceptable to us, could adversely affect our ability to manufacture or source our products. We may experience delays in the manufacture or sourcing of our products and our business and financial results would suffer if we fail to identify alternate suppliers, or if our supply is interrupted or reduced or if there is a significant increase in cost. Our level of indebtedness and our failure to comply with our indebtedness arrangements may adversely affect our business and operations. We rely on the availability of indebtedness arrangements with our lenders. The arrangements contain numerous restrictive covenants that limit our discretion with respect to certain business matters. These covenants place significant restrictions on our ability to pledge or create liens or other encumbrances on our assets. These financial covenants require us to meet certain financial ratios and financial condition tests. If the lender was to demand or cancel these facilities, there can be no assurance that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full the indebtedness. It is possible that we will not have sufficient funds at the time to fund our operations. In addition, there can be no assurance that future borrowings or equity financing will be available to us or available on acceptable terms, in an amount sufficient to meet our repayment obligations. In the event that the lending arrangements cannot be refinanced, or if they can only be refinanced on terms that are less favourable than the current terms, our business and operations may be adversely affected. 11 RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE VALUE OF NORSAT SHARES The exercise of the existing outstanding options, warrants and warrants to be issued may substantially dilute the value of the Company’s common shares. The Company has 75,000,000 shares of Common Stock authorized, of which 58,362,532 were outstanding at March 29, 2011. Although the Board of Directors has no present intention to do so, it has the authority, within parameters set by the Toronto Stock Exchange (the “TSX”), without action by the shareholders, to issue authorized and unissued shares of Common Stock. Any series of Preferred Stock, if and when established and issued, could also have rights superior to shares of the Company’s Common Stock, particularly in regard to voting, the payment of dividends and upon liquidation of Norsat. Convertible debt, if issued to raise additional working capital for the Company could also have dilutive effect for shareholders. The current financial market volatility can result in wide fluctuations in the market price of the Company's stock. The Company has reported seventeen consecutive quarters of profitability starting from the fourth quarter of 2006. Despite the previously mentioned profitable results, the uncertainty and volatility in current financial markets can result in wide fluctuations in the market price of the Company’s stock. The Company’s operating results have varied on a quarterly basis in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH FOREIGN EXCHANGE The Company’s operations are heavily exposed to fluctuations in foreign currencies. Most of the Company’s international sales are denominated primarily in US dollars, Euros and UK pounds. While the Company expects its international revenues and expenses will continue to be denominated primarily in US dollars, a portion of its international revenues and expenses may be denominated in other foreign currencies in the future. As the functional currency is the United States dollar, the Company could experience and has experienced the risks of fluctuating currencies. A stronger Canadian dollar increases operating expenses on conversion to the U.S. dollar. From time to time the Company may choose to engage in currency hedging activities, which may be unsuccessful and expensive. 