D. Risk factors Investors should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below before making an investment decision. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially harmed. This could cause the trading price of our common shares to decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Associated With Our Financial Results Our inability to generate sufficient cash flows may result in us not being a going concern. Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis, which presumes the realization of assets and the settlement of liabilities in the normal course of operations. The application of the going concern basis is dependent upon the Company having sufficient available cash resources and achieving profitable operations to generate sufficient cash flows to fund continued operations, or, in the absence of adequate cash flows from operations, obtaining additional financing. For the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company was not profitable. The Company has previously reported losses and negative cash flows from operations in four of the last five fiscal years. While management believes the Company has sufficient cash flows to continue operations for the next 12 months, the Company may need to rely on a dditional funding to sustain operations after that point. Our inability to accurately forecast our results from quarter to quarter may affect our cash resources and result in wide fluctuations in the market price of our stock. Our operating results have varied on a quarterly basis in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are described below. Due to these and other factors, most of which are outside of our control, our quarterly revenues and operating results are difficult to forecast. As a result, we may not be able to accurately predict our necessary cash expenditures during each quarter or obtain financing in a timely manner to cover any shortfalls. We also believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful and one should not rely on any such comparisons as an indication of our future performance. Risks Associated With Our Business And Operations We cannot be sure we will be able to identify emerging technology and market trends, enhance our existing technologies or develop new technologies in order to effectively compete in the satellite communications industry. The satellite communications industry is characterized by rapid technological changes, short technology and product life cycles, pressure to provide improved solutions at increasingly lower prices and frequent introduction of new technologies and products. To succeed, we must be able to identify emerging trends and enhance our existing technologies and develop new technologies and products to meet market requirements. To drive sales, our satellite products must meet the needs of our customers and potential customers and must be competitively priced. Additionally, there must be sufficient interest in and demand for our products. If we do not develop these new technologies and products in a timely and cost ef fective manner, or if others develop new technologies before us, we will not achieve profitability in the satellite communications industry and we may not be able to participate in selling these new technologies or products. 7 We have customer and supplier concentration. A significant portion of our revenues has been recognized from a limited number of customers. For example, during 2005, the Satellite Systems business unit generated approximately 74% (2004: 87%) of its sales from the United States government. We expect that a majority of our Satellite Systems revenues will continue to depend on sales of products to a small number of customers. We also expect that customers will vary from period-to-period. If we fail to successfully sell our products to one or more targeted customers in any particular period, or are unable to diversify our number of customers and segments, our revenues and profits will be adversely affected. The Company purchases substantially all of its microwave products from four suppliers, and certain critical components for its Omnilink product from sole source suppliers. If any of t hese suppliers is unable or unwilling to supply to us and at prices that we deem fair, and we are unable to diversify our number and range of suppliers to mitigate this risk, our revenues and profits will be adversely affected. We cannot be sure that we will be able to compete effectively with our current competitors. The satellite communications industry is intensely competitive. Our competitors have technologies, products and resources that may be more advantageous and they compete directly with us. Some of these competitors are large, established companies which have significantly greater resources than we have. Our ability to compete effectively will depend on our ability to increase sales and attract new customers in a timely and cost effective manner and market and sell these products at competitive prices. We are dependent on others for the supply and manufacture of components and products we sell. We have outsourced substantially all of the manufacturing of the microwave products we sell and, with the progression of the portable terminals from development to production, we rely on our suppliers to provide components for the production of t erminal products. If either the manufacturers or suppliers cannot deliver products to us on time, and at competitive pricing, our revenues and profits will be adversely affected. We have limited intellectual property protection. Our success and ability to compete are dependent, in part, upon proprietary technology. Due to the rapid technological changes in our markets and since our technology is, in part, proprietary, we rely primarily on trade secrets and we do not have adequate patent applications to protect our technology. We are however continuing to apply for new patent protection as it relates to Globetrekker products. We also enter into confidentiality, and non-compete agreements with our employees and limit the access to and distribution of our product design documentation and other proprietary information. We cannot be sure that these efforts will deter misappropriation or prevent an unauthorized third party from obtaining or using information, which we deem to be proprietary. Although we believe that our technology does not currently infringe upon patents held by others, we cannot be sure that such in fringements do not exist or will not exist in the future, particularly as the number of products and competitors in our industry segment grows. If we experience rapid growth and do not manage it effectively, this may impact our profitability. If our technologies and products achieve wide acceptance we may experience rapid growth. We may have to hire more employees, including additional management, improve our financial control systems, and expand and manage our technical, sales and support service operations. We would need increased revenues and additional funding to operate these increased activities. If we do not manage our growth effectively, profitability may be impacted. We depend on our key employees and we cannot be sure that we will be able to keep these employees or hire and train replacements. Our success depends on the skills, experience and performance of our senior management and other key personnel. While we offer competitive compensation packages and stock options to attract key employees, we do not carry key person insurance on these employees. Highly skilled technical employees and management in the satellite communications industry are in demand and the market for such persons is highly competitive. We cannot be sure that we will be able to retain these employees or hire replacements. If we do not successfully retain our key personnel or hire and train replacements 8 we will be unable to develop the new products and technologies necessary to compete in our markets or to effectively manage our business. We may be subject to product liability claims, which are not fully covered by insurance. The manufacture sale and marketing of our satellite products expose us to the risk of product liability claims. Given the complex nature of our products, they may contain undetected errors or performance problems, particularly when new products are introduced. Although our products undergo extensive testing prior to introduction to the market, it is typical in the satellite communications industry for such products to contain errors and performance problems, which are discovered after commercial introduction. If these defects and errors are discovered after shipment, they could result in a loss of sales revenues, delay in market acceptance, product returns, warranty claims and the loss of a potential market. In addition, components and other products manufactured and distributed by others, which are incorporated into our products, may also contain such defects and errors, which could substantially reduce the performance of our products. We are also at risk of exposure to potential product liability claims from distributors and end-users for damages resulting from defects in products that we distribute. Although product defects have not been a significant factor, we maintain product liability insurance. We cannot be sure that this insurance will be adequate to cover all claims brought against us or that this insurance will continue to be available to us on acceptable terms. If these claims are not fully covered by our product liability insurance, they could severely and negatively impact our business liability insurance coverage and our available cash resources. A product liability claim, even one without merit or for which we have substantial coverage, could result in significant legal defence costs, thereby increasing our expenses, lowering our earnings and, depending on revenues, potentially resulting in additional losses. Since we sell our products around the world, we face financial risks associated with currency fluctuations and other risks relating to our international operations, which may adversely impact our business and results of operations. To be successful, we believe we must expand our international operations. Therefore, we expect to commit significant resources in order to expand our international sales and marketing activities, including the hiring of an international sales force and agents. If we do not maintain or increase international market demand for our products, our business will be negatively impacted. We are increasingly subject to a number of risks associated with international business activities, which may increase our costs, lengthen our sales cycle and require significant management attention. These risks include: Increased expenses associated with marketing services in foreign countries; General economic conditions in international markets; Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements resulting in unanticipated costs and delays; Tariffs, export controls and other trade barriers; Longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; and Potentially adverse tax consequences, including restrictions on the repatriation of earnings. While we expect our international revenues and expenses to be denominated primarily in US dollars, a portion of our international revenues and expenses may be denominated in other foreign currencies in the future. Accordingly, as our reporting currency is the Canadian dollar, we could experience the risks of fluctuating currencies and could choose to engage in currency hedging activities, which may be unsuccessful and expensive. Risks That May Affect The Value Of Norsat Shares The exercise of our existing outstanding options, warrants, warrants to be issued, conversion of long-term debt and the number of shares available for future issuance may substantially dilute the value of our common shares. The Company has 75,000,000 shares of Common Stock authorized, of which 42,708,082 were outstanding at December 31, 2005 and an additional 6,666,961 shares have been reserved for issuance upon the exercise of outstanding options or warrants or warrants to be issued or conversion of long-term debt as of such date. Although our Board of Directors has no present intention to do so, it has the authority, within parameters set by the Toronto Stock Exchange (the “TSX”), without action by the shareholders, to issue authorized and unissued shares of Common Stock. Any series of Preferred Stock, if and when established and issued, could also have rights superior to shares of our Common Stock, particu larly in regard to voting, the payment of dividends and upon liquidation of Norsat. Convertible debt, if issued to raise additional working capital for the company could also have dilutive effect on the shareholders. 9 