ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, operations and financial condition are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, including the risks discussed below. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should any underlying assumptions prove incorrect, our actual financial results will vary, and may vary materially from those anticipated, estimated, projected or expected. These risk factors do not necessarily appear in the order of importance. Risks Related to Our Business Interruptions in the supply of cotton or significant price volatility of the raw materials used to make cotton may result in increased costs that we may be unable to pass on to our customers, which could reduce our profitability. The principal fabrics used in many of our products are made from cotton and cotton-synthetic blends. The prices we pay for these fabrics are dependent on the market prices for the raw materials used to produce them, primarily cotton. These raw materials are subject to price volatility caused by weather, supply conditions, government regulations, energy costs, economic climate and other unpredictable factors. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of the fabrics used to manufacture our products could have a material adverse effect on our cost of sales or our ability to meet our customers’ demands. In addition, if raw materials become unavailable within a geographic area from which they are now sourced, then we may not be able to obtain suitable or cost effective substitutes. Any interruption in the supply of raw materials could increase our costs or decrease our revenues, which could reduce our cash flow. We have not historically managed, and do not currently intend to manage, cotton and other commodity price exposures by utilizing derivative instruments. While we attempt to match cost increases with corresponding product price increases, we are not always able to raise product prices immediately or at all. Timing differences between raw material prices, which may change daily, have had (and may continue to have) a negative effect on our cash flow. Any cost increase that we are not able to pass on to our customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Due to the international scope of our business activities, our results of operations are subject to additional risk, including higher cost structures, higher credit risk, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, legal restrictions and taxes. For the year ended March 31, 2014, international sales accounted for approximately 2% of our total net sales. The majority of products sold internationally are exported from the U.S. and China. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks inherent to any business operating in foreign countries, and especially those with emerging markets. As we continue to increase our presence in such countries, our operations will encounter the following risks, among others: trade barriers, tariffs, exchange controls, national and regional labor strikes, social and political risks, general economic risks and required compliance with a variety of U.S. and foreign laws, including tax laws, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (and foreign equivalents), and export controls. In addition, although we maintain an anti-corruption compliance program throughout our company, violations of our compliance program may result in criminal or civil sanctions, including material monetary fines, penalties and other costs against us or our employees, and may have a material adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, in foreign jurisdictions where process of law may vary from country to country, we may experience difficulty in enforcing agreements. In jurisdictions where bankruptcy laws and practices may vary, we may experience difficulty collecting foreign receivables through foreign legal systems. The occurrence of these risks, among others, could disrupt our business. Our principal competitors in international markets are a number of much larger companies as well as smaller companies already established in the countries into which we sell or intend to sell our products. Our cost structure is often higher than that of our competitors because of the relatively high cost of transporting product to the local market as well as our competitors’ lower local labor costs in some markets. There is no certainty that we will be able to open local manufacturing facilities, procure products from other suppliers or operate our international sales activities productively. 8 In addition, our international sales are subject to higher credit risks than sales in the U.S. Many of our international distributors are small and may not be well capitalized. Our prices to our international distributors for products shipped to the customers from the U.S. or China are denominated in U.S. dollars, but their resale prices are set in their local currency. A decline in the value of the local currency in relation to the U.S. dollar may adversely affect their ability to profitably sell in their market the products they buy from us, and may adversely affect their ability to make payment to us for the products they purchase. Legal recourse for non-payment of indebtedness may be uncertain. These factors all contribute to a potential for credit losses. Our procurement of certain products and raw materials from the People’s Republic of China is subject to special risks that could have a material adverse effect on our operations. A significant portion of our raw materials and finished goods are purchased from manufacturers in China. As a result, our international procurement operations are subject to the risks associated with such activities including, among other things: economic and labor conditions, international trade regulations (including tariffs and anti-dumping penalties), war, international terrorism, civil disobedience, natural disasters, political instability, governmental activities and deprivation of contract and property rights. In particular, since 1978, the Chinese government has been reforming its economic systems, and we expect such reforms to continue. Although we believe that these reforms have had a positive effect on the economic development of China and have improved our ability to successfully utilize facilities in China, we cannot be assured that these reforms will continue or that the Chinese government will not take actions that impair operations in China. The Chinese government has cut the tax credits that exporters get on more than 2,200 products, including many of our products that are manufactured in China. These tax credits were adopted more than 20 years ago to provide Chinese companies with tax breaks on revenues derived from exports. The cut in tax credits, together with a tight labor market, will cause the price of many items that are sourced in China to increase, which could adversely impact our cost of goods sold and profitability, to the extent we are unable to pass along these price increases to our customers. Beginning in fiscal 2006, the Chinese government began to re-value the Chinese Yuan against other currencies, including the U.S. dollar. This re-valuation or free floating exchange rate has caused the price of many items that are sourced from China to increase, which could adversely impact our cost of goods sold and profitability. In addition, the U.S. government in May 2005 exercised a quota on any textile products from China in Category 632 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule, which included our patient slippers. Beginning on January 1, 2009, the quota on textile products from Chinese category 632 expired. While we have been able to procure a similar product with a different country of origin, the procurement has been at higher costs than we were previously obtaining. An interruption in supply and higher costs could have an adverse effect on our financial results. The high level of competition in our industry places pressure on our gross profit and we may not be able to compete successfully. The disposable medical device segment of the health care industry in which we operate is highly competitive and is experiencing both horizontal and vertical consolidation. All of the products we sell are available from sources other than us. We believe that our ability to compete depends upon continued product innovation, the quality, convenience and reliability of our products, access to distribution channels and pricing. In addition, our ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to differentiate our products based on safety features, product quality, cost effectiveness, ease of use and convenience, as well as our ability to identify and respond to changing customer needs. We encounter significant competition in our markets both from large established medical device manufacturers and from smaller companies. Many of these firms have introduced competitive products with proprietary features not provided by the conventional products and methods they are intended to replace. Most of our current and prospective competitors have economic and other resources substantially greater than ours and are well established as suppliers to the healthcare industry. There is no assurance that our competitors will not substantially increase resources devoted to the development, manufacture and marketing of products competitive with our products. The successful implementation of such a strategy by one or more of our competitors could materially and adversely affect our profitability. Sales to Owens & Minor, Inc. and Cardinal Health Inc. (collectively, the “Distributors”) accounted for approximately 64%, 63%, and 66% of net sales in fiscal 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively. Although the Distributors may be deemed in a technical sense to be major purchasers of our products, they serve, however, as a distributor under a purchase order or supply agreement between the customer and our company, and do not make significant purchases for their own account. In some cases, however, the Distributors compete with us on a private label basis, and if successful, sales of certain of our products could decline which may result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Health care reform and the related pressure to contain costs has led to the expansion of group purchasing organizations in the U.S. These group purchasing organizations enter into preferred supplier arrangements with one or more manufacturers of medical products in return for price discounts to members of the group purchasing organizations. If we are not able to obtain new preferred supplier commitments from major group purchasing organizations or retain those commitments that we currently have, which are generally terminable by either party for any reason upon the expiration of a defined notice period, our sales and profitability could be adversely affected. Even if we are able to obtain and retain preferred supplier commitments from group purchasing organizations, they may not deliver high levels of compliance by their members, in which case, we may not be able to offset the negative impact of lower per-unit prices or lower gross profit with increases in unit sales or in market share. 9 Our products may be subject to recall or product liability claims, which could expose us to material losses. Our products expose us to an inherent risk of product liability. Our products are used in connection with surgical procedures and in other medical contexts in which it is important that those products function with precision and accuracy. If our products do not function as designed, or are designed improperly, we may be forced by regulatory agencies to withdraw such products from the market. In addition, if medical personnel or their patients suffer injury as a result of any failure of our products to function as designed, or an inappropriate design, we may be subject to lawsuits seeking significant compensatory and punitive damages. Costs of the defense of such litigation, even if successful, could be substantial. While we maintain insurance against product liability and defense costs in amounts believed to be reasonable, there is no assurance that we will successfully defend claims, if any, arising with respect to products or that the insurance we carry will be sufficient. A successful claim against us in excess of insurance coverage could materially and adversely affect us. Further, there is no assurance that product liability insurance will continue to be available to us on acceptable terms. Termination or interruption of relationships with our suppliers, or failure of our suppliers to perform, could disrupt our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Although most raw materials essential to our business are generally available from multiple sources, we currently obtain certain key components, including resin, from limited sources. If a supplier of significant raw materials including component parts, finished goods or services were to terminate its relationship with us, or otherwise cease supplying raw materials, component parts, finished goods or services consistent with past practices, our ability to meet our obligations to our customers may be disrupted. A disruption with respect to numerous products, or with respect to a few significant products, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Our success depends largely on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Much of the future success of our company depends on the continued service and availability of skilled personnel, including members of our executive management team and certain key employees in manufacturing, marketing, finance, and information technology. We have historically relied on our ability to grant stock options as one mechanism for recruiting and retaining this highly skilled talent. Accounting regulations requiring the expensing of stock options may impair our future ability to provide these incentives without incurring significant compensation costs. There can be no assurance that we will continue to successfully attract and retain key personnel. Risks associated with our information technology systems could adversely affect our future operating results. We rely on information technology systems across our operations, including for management, supply chain and financial information and various other processes and transactions. Our ability to effectively manage our business depends on the security, reliability and capacity of these systems. Information technology system failures, network disruptions or breaches of security could disrupt our operations, causing delays or cancellation of customer orders or impeding the manufacture or shipment of products, processing of transactions or reporting of financial results. An attack or other problem with our systems, or those of our third party providers, could also result in the disclosure of proprietary information about our business or confidential information concerning our customers or employees. The occurrence of some or all of these events could result in significant damage to our reputation and possible regulatory sanctions or penalties. While our management has taken steps to address these concerns by implementing internal control measures and certain system redundancy or recovery plans, there can be no assurance that a system failure or data security breach will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If a natural or man-made disaster strikes our manufacturing facilities, we may be unable to manufacture our products for a substantial amount of time, which may adversely affect our expected results of operations. We principally rely on our manufacturing facilities in Arden, North Carolina and Toano, Virginia. These facilities may be affected by natural or man-made disasters. These facilities and the manufacturing equipment we use to produce our products would be difficult to replace and could require substantial time to repair or replace. In the event one of our facilities was affected by a disaster, we would be forced to rely on third-party manufacturers, which may not be available or may be unable to produce our products on the schedule or to the specifications that we require. While we maintain business recovery plans that are intended to allow us to recover from natural disasters or other events that could disrupt our business, we cannot provide assurances that our plans would fully protect us from all such disasters. In addition, our insurance may not adequately compensate us from any losses incurred as a result of natural or other disasters. Furthermore, in areas prone to frequent natural or other disasters, insurance may become increasingly expensive or not available at all. 10 We are dependent on manufacturing and logistic services provided by third-parties and, if these providers are unwilling or unable to provide such services, we would need to locate alternative service providers or our operations could be significantly impaired. Many of our products are manufactured in whole or part by third-party manufacturers, which are located throughout the U.S. and other parts of the world. In addition, we depend on third-party transportation companies to deliver supplies necessary to manufacture our products from vendors to our various facilities and to move our products to customers within and outside the U.S. While outsourcing arrangements for the manufacturing and transportation of our products may lower the fixed cost of our operations, these arrangements can reduce our direct control of the production and distribution of our products. It is uncertain what affect such diminished control will have on the quality or quantity of the products manufactured, or the flexibility of our company to respond to changing market conditions. Further, our operations have been, and will continue to be, dependent upon our ability to obtain favorable terms from third-party manufacturers. A change in terms by a significant manufacturer could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Any significant interruption in the availability of these third-party services on commercially acceptable terms, defects in the products manufactured, quality-related matters or disruption in the transportation of our products could materially adversely affect our ability to meet customer demands or our operations generally. If we are unable to execute our cost reduction plans successfully, our total operating costs may be greater than expected, which may adversely affect our profitability. We have commenced a number of actions to improve our earnings profile. We are in the process of implementing these programs and have realized a portion of the anticipated benefits. While we continue to search for opportunities to reduce our costs and expenses to improve operating profitability without jeopardizing the quality of our products or the effectiveness of our operations, our success in achieving targeted cost and expense reductions depends upon a number of factors. If we do not successfully execute on our cost reduction initiatives or if we experience delays in completing the implementation of these initiatives, our results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected. Our business is dependent, in part, on our intellectual property. If our intellectual property rights cannot be enforced or our trade secrets become known to our competitors, our ability to compete may be adversely affected. Proprietary protection of our processes, apparatuses and other technology is important to our business. While a presumption of validity exists with respect to patents issued to us in the U.S., there can be no assurance that any of our patents will not be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. Furthermore, if any pending patent application filed by us does not result in an issued patent, or if patents are issued to us, but such patents do not provide meaningful protection of our intellectual property, then our ability to compete may be adversely affected. Additionally, our competitors or other third parties may obtain patents that restrict or preclude our ability to lawfully produce or sell our products in a competitive manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. We also rely upon unpatented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation and other trade secrets to develop and maintain our competitive position. While it is our policy to enter into agreements imposing confidentiality obligations upon our employees and third parties to protect our intellectual property, these confidentiality obligations may be breached, may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or proprietary know-how, or adequate remedies may not be available in the event of an unauthorized access, use or disclosure of our trade secrets and know-how. In addition, others could obtain knowledge of our trade secrets through independent development or other access by legal means. We may have to rely on judicial enforcement of our patents and other proprietary rights. We may not be able to effectively protect our intellectual property rights from misappropriation or infringement in countries where effective patent, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property laws and judicial systems may be unavailable, or may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as U.S. law. The failure of our patents or confidentiality agreements to protect our processes, apparatuses, technology, trade secrets or proprietary know-how or the failure of adequate legal remedies for related actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Our industry is affected by global economic factors, including risks associated with volatile economic conditions. Our financial results are substantially dependent on overall economic conditions in the U.S. and China. Declining economic conditions in any of these locations—or negative perceptions about economic conditions—could result in a substantial decrease in demand for our products and could adversely affect our business. A currency or financial crisis in the U.S. or China could precipitate a significant decline in the respective economy, which would likely result in a decrease in demand for our products in the U.S. or increase the cost of products procured from China. Uncertain economic conditions and market instability make it particularly difficult for us to forecast demand trends. The timing and extent of any changes to currently prevailing market conditions is uncertain, and supply and demand may be unbalanced at any time. As a consequence, we may not be able to accurately predict future economic conditions or the effect of such conditions on our financial condition or results of operations. We can give no assurances as to the timing, extent or duration of the current or future economic cycles impacting our industry. 11 Risks Related to Our Acquisition Strategy We have recorded goodwill and other intangible assets as a result of acquisitions, and our future business conditions could cause these assets to become impaired, requiring substantial write-downs that would reduce our operating income. We are required to annually test our goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives to determine if impairment has occurred. If the testing performed indicates that impairment has occurred, we are required to record a non-cash impairment charge for the difference between the carrying value of the goodwill and other intangible assets and the fair value of the goodwill and other intangible assets in the period the determination is made. Changes in these estimates and assumptions, including the impact of changes in our stock price, could materially affect the determination of fair value and/or goodwill impairment. We continue to monitor and evaluate the potential impact of changes in our estimates and assumptions and perform interim impairment testing if triggering events arise prior to our annual impairment testing. Accordingly, it is possible that we could recognize an impairment charge in the future with respect to goodwill and/or other intangible assets, which would have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. We recorded $77,780 of a goodwill impairment charge during fiscal 2013, and as of March 31, 2014, had $19,144 of goodwill remaining on our balance sheet and $10,877 of goodwill classified as an asset held for sale. The impact of changes relating to the previously mentioned estimates and assumptions could result in further goodwill impairment. We may be unable to successfully manage our growth, particularly if accomplished through acquisitions. Successful implementation of our business strategy requires that we effectively manage any associated growth. To manage growth effectively, our management will need to continue to implement changes in certain aspects of our business, to enhance our information systems and operations to respond to increased demand, to attract and retain qualified personnel and to develop, train and manage an increasing number of management-level and other employees. Growth could place an increasing strain on our management, financial, marketing, distribution and other resources, and we could experience operating difficulties. Any failure to manage growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. To the extent that we grow through acquisitions, we will face the additional challenges of integrating our current operations, culture, management information systems and other characteristics with that of the acquired entity. We may incur significant expenses in connection with negotiating and consummating one or more transactions, and we may assume certain liabilities in connection with an acquisition. In addition, we may not realize competitive advantages, synergies or other intended benefits anticipated in connection with any such acquisition. If we do not adequately identify targets for, or manage issues related to our future acquisitions, such acquisitions may have a negative adverse effect on our business and financial results. In addition to the above risks, future acquisitions may result in the dilution of earnings and the amortization or write-off of goodwill and intangible assets, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to Health Care Reform and Other Regulations The health care reform legislation enacted in 2010 may lead to substantial changes in the health care industry that may adversely affect our business. In March 2010, Congress passed and President Obama signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and related Reconciliation Bill, which includes a variety of healthcare reform provisions and requirements that will become effective at varying times through 2018. Generally, this legislation requires most U.S. citizens and legal residents to carry health insurance, creates state-based health benefit exchanges and a tax credit system to help the uninsured purchase coverage, requires employers to either provide insurance or pay tax penalties for employees that receive tax credits, imposes new regulations on health plans, and expands Medicaid. Many of the provisions of the law will phase in over the course of the next several years, and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Among the provisions that had an adverse impact on our business is an excise tax that is imposed on medical device manufacturers for the sale of certain medical devices occurring after December 31, 2012. The excise tax is an amount equal to 2.3% of the price for which we sell certain medical devices. The IRS has issued guidance on the implementation of the tax that included, among many provisions, an exemption on certain domestically produced “convenience kits,” which represents the majority of our exposure to the excise tax. The medical excise tax amounted to $383 and $109 during fiscal 2014 and 2013, respectively. Continuing pressures to reduce health care costs may adversely affect our prices; and if we cannot reduce manufacturing costs of existing and new products, our sales may not grow and our profitability may decline. Increasing awareness of health care costs, public interest in health care reform and continuing pressure from Medicare, Medicaid and other payers to reduce costs in the health care industry, as well as increasing competition from other products, could make it more difficult for us to sell our products at current prices. The reduction of health care costs has become a political priority in the U.S., as evidenced by the 2010 health care reform legislation, and abroad. Laws and regulations affecting reimbursement for our products may be altered in the near future, possibly resulting in lower reimbursement amounts to customers for our products from governmental and private payers. In the event that the market will not accept current prices for our products, our sales and profits could be adversely affected. We believe that our ability to increase our market share and operate profitably in the long term may depend, in part, on our ability to reduce manufacturing costs on a per unit basis through cost containment and high volume production using highly automated molding and assembly systems. If we are unable to reduce unit manufacturing costs, we may be unable to increase our market share or may lose market share to alternative products, including competitors’ products. Similarly, if we cannot enter a market with new products priced competitively with adequate profit margins and then reduce unit manufacturing costs of new products as production volumes increase, we may not be able to sell new products profitably or gain any meaningful market share. Any of these outcomes would adversely affect our future results of operations. 12 We are subject to a number of existing laws and regulations, and a significant adverse change in, or failure to comply with, these requirements could adversely affect our business. As a participant in the heavily-regulated health care industry, we are regulated by numerous government authorities in both the U.S. and abroad. The manufacturing, distribution, marketing, labeling, sale and use of our products are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. Our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could cause a regulatory body to take disciplinary, corrective or punitive measures in the form of warnings, civil sanctions, criminal sanctions, recalls or seizures, injunctions, withdrawal of approvals, or restrictions on operations, all of which could adversely affect our business. Importantly, in addition to the laws and regulations that directly apply to us, we also are impacted by the laws and regulations that apply to our customers. Our targeted customer base consists primarily of acute care facilities, and recently has expanded to include physician offices, outpatient surgery centers, long-term care facilities, and laboratories. These customers typically rely substantially on government programs for reimbursement for the services provided to patients in which our products are utilized, and their continued participation in such programs requires compliance with extensive governmental regulatory schemes. Even though we may not be directly regulated under these requirements, our products must be capable of being utilized by customers in compliance with such requirements. Our company and our customers are subject to numerous laws and regulations relating to health care fraud and abuse. These laws are particularly relevant with respect to the sale and marketing of our products and the interaction between us and our customers. Fraud and abuse laws can be complicated and subject to frequent change, and as a result, may be violated unintentionally. Because many of these laws and regulations have not been extensively interpreted or consistently enforced, health care industry participants often do not have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of these laws and regulations. Different interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our current or past practices to regulatory scrutiny and could necessitate changes to our operations. Violations of fraud and abuse laws may result in significant criminal, civil and administrative sanctions. A determination, or even an investigation as to whether, we have violated fraud and abuse laws could adversely affect our business. Unanticipated changes in our tax rates could affect our future results. Our future effective tax rates could be favorably or unfavorably affected by unanticipated changes in tax laws or their interpretation. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. While we believe that we have adequately provided for such results, there can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness and Access to Capital and Financing Covenants in our credit agreement may restrict our financial and operating flexibility to engage in certain business activities or to obtain additional financing. On May 17, 2013, we entered into a credit agreement (the “New Credit Agreement”), among us, as borrower and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as administrative agent and lender. Our New Credit Agreement, as amended, contains certain restrictive covenants. These covenants may limit or prohibit our ability to incur indebtedness, grant liens, guarantee obligations, sell assets, make loans and investments, enter into merger and acquisition transactions, and declare and make dividends. Our failure to comply with any of these covenants, or our failure to make payments of principal or interest on our debt, could result in a default under the New Credit Agreement. An event of default could result in our debt obligations becoming immediately due and payable, cause our creditors to terminate their lending commitments, or force us or one or more of our subsidiaries into bankruptcy or liquidation. Any of the foregoing occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For more information regarding our New Credit Agreement and related debt covenants, see Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources” and Footnote 8 – Long-Term Debt to our consolidated financial statements. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business, remain in compliance with debt covenants, and make payments on our indebtedness. As of March 31, 2014, the outstanding indebtedness under our credit agreement, was approximately $40,112, which represented 35% of our total capitalization of $114,243. On June 2, 2014, we utilized a portion of the proceeds from the Transaction to repay the outstanding indebtedness under our credit agreement in its entirety. While we currently have no outstanding indebtedness under our credit agreement, substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: · make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including financial and other restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default under the agreements governing our indebtedness; · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow in the future to pay principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes; · limit our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and in the industry in which we operate; · make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions, and adverse changes in government regulation; and · limit our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our growth strategy, research and development costs, or other purposes. Any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. If we do not have sufficient earnings to service our debt, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money, or sell securities, none of which we can guarantee we will be able to do. 13 An increase in interest rates may increase the cost of servicing our indebtedness and could reduce our profitability. Indebtedness we may incur under our New Credit Agreement bears interest at variable rates. As a result, any increase in interest rates, whether because of an increase in market interest rates or an increase in our own cost of borrowing, would increase the cost of servicing our indebtedness and could materially reduce the availability of debt financing, which may result in increases in the interest rates and borrowing spreads at which lenders are willing to make future debt financing available to us. The impact of such an increase would be more significant than it would be for some other companies because of our substantial indebtedness. We may not be able to obtain funding in the capital markets on terms we find acceptable, or obtain funding under our New Credit Agreement because of a deterioration of the capital and credit markets and our borrowing base. The credit crisis experienced primarily between 2008 and 2012 and related turmoil in the global financial systems had an impact on our business and our financial condition, and we may face additional challenges if economic and financial market conditions deteriorate in the future. Historically, we have used cash flow from operations and borrowings under a revolving credit facility to fund our capital expenditures. In the future, we may not be able to access adequate funding or may be required to prepay amounts outstanding under our New Credit Agreement as a result of (1) a decrease in our borrowing base due to the outcome of a subsequent borrowing base redetermination, (2) a decrease in the value of our real estate or equipment or (3) an unwillingness or inability on the part of our lending counterparties to meet their funding obligations. Further, the credit crisis made it more difficult to obtain funding in the public and private capital markets. In particular, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets increased substantially while the availability of funds from those markets generally diminished significantly. Also, as a result of concerns about the general stability of financial markets and the solvency of specific counterparties, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets increased as many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates, imposed tighter lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt at maturity or on terms similar to existing debt or at all, or, in some cases, ceased to provide any new funding. A return of these conditions could materially and adversely affect our company. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Ownership The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be subject to large fluctuations. We have experienced significant fluctuations in our stock price and share trading volume in the past and may continue to do so. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of issues, including broad market factors that may have a material adverse impact on our stock price, regardless of actual performance. The following factors could affect our stock price: · claims involving potential infringement of patents and other intellectual property rights; · quarter-to-quarter variances in our financial results; · analyst and other projections or recommendations regarding our common stock or medical device stocks generally; · any restatement of our financial statements or any investigation into our company by the SEC or another regulatory authority; · a general decline, or rise, of stock prices in the capital markets generally; · investor concerns regarding the general credibility of corporate financial reporting and integrity of financial markets; · announcements by us or our competitors of new products and service offerings, significant contracts, acquisitions or strategic relationships; · additions or departures of key personnel; and · the trading volume of our common stock. 14 Certain provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could discourage a takeover attempt, which may reduce or eliminate the likelihood of a change of control transaction and, therefore, limit your ability to sell our common stock at a price higher than the current market value. Certain provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, such as a classified board of directors, limitations on stockholder proposals at meetings of stockholders and the inability of stockholders to call special meetings and certain provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of our company, even if some of our stockholders considered such a change of control to be beneficial. Our certificate of incorporation also authorizes our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. Our Board of Directors could elect to issue preferred stock that has special voting or other rights that could make it even more difficult for a third party to acquire us, which may reduce or eliminate your ability to sell our common stock at a price higher than the current market value. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 