D. Risk factors Investors should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below before making an investment decision. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially harmed. This could cause the trading price of our common shares to decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The items of the following list of risk factors are in no particular order or priority to the Company. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH FINANCIAL RESULTS The Company’s inability to generate sufficient cash flows from its operations may affect its ability to continue as a going concern. The Company’s consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, which presumes the realization of assets and the settlement of liabilities in the normal course of operations. The application of the going concern basis is dependent upon the Company having sufficient available cash resources and achieving profitable operations to generate sufficient cash flows to fund continued operations. Should the Company fail to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, it will require additional financing to remain a going concern. At December 31, 2013, the Company has accumulated a deficit of $16,072,249. Although the Company has generated net profit from its continued operations throughout 2013 and 2012, in the third quarter of 2011 and from the fourth quarter of 2006 through to the fourth quarter of 2010, it has also reported losses in the first, second and fourth quarters of 2011. This past performance cannot be used as an indication of the Company’s future performance. 8 The Company’s inability to accurately forecast its results from quarter-to-quarter may affect its cash resources and result in wide fluctuations in the market price of the Company's stock. The operating results have varied on a quarterly basis in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are described below. Due to these and other factors, most of which are outside of the Company’s control, the quarterly revenues and operating results are difficult to forecast. As a result, the Company may not be able to accurately predict its necessary cash expenditures during each quarter or obtain financing in a timely manner to cover any shortfalls. The Company also believes that period-to-period comparisons of its operating results may not be meaningful and one should not rely on any such comparisons as an indication of its future performance. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS The Company’s exposure to business and operation risks includes but is not limited to the following: The Company recognizes the threats posed by operating in an uncertain global economic environment. The uncertain global economy and financial markets continue to limit overall visibility to end markets. This uncertainty may continue to impact our industry, resulting in lower demand for some of the products we manufacture and limiting end market visibility for our customers. This environment can pose significant risk to our business by impacting demand for our customers’ products, the financial condition of our customers or suppliers, as well as the level of customer consolidations. A deterioration in economic environment may accelerate the effect of the various risk factors described in this Annual Report, as well as result in other unforeseen events that will impact our business and financial condition. To succeed, the Company must be able to control spending and prudently allocate financial resources to optimize value. To drive sales, the Company’s products must meet the needs of the Company’s existing and potential customers and be competitively priced; additional judgement will need to be exercised if the granting of credit to customers is required to close the transaction. In view of the current difficulty, both in obtaining credit and accessing the capital markets, stewardship of cash continues to be critical to the success of the Company. The Company cannot be sure it will be able to identify emerging technology and market trends, enhance its existing technologies or develop new technologies in order to effectively compete in the communications industry. The communications industry is characterized by rapid technological changes, short technology and product life cycles, pressure to provide improved solutions at increasingly lower prices and frequent introduction of new technologies and products. To succeed, the Company must be able to identify emerging trends and enhance its existing technologies and develop new technologies and products to meet market requirements. To drive sales, the Company’s products must meet the needs of existing and potential customers and be competitively priced. Additionally, there must be sufficient interest in and demand for the Company’s products. If the Company does not develop these new technologies and products in a timely and cost effective manner, or if others develop new technologies ahead of the Company, the Company may not achieve profitability in the communications industry and it may not be able to participate in selling these new technologies or products. While the Company is able to continue to develop products with funding contributions from the Canadian Federal Government through the SADI program; without the SADI program contribution, the Company’s product development costs would not be sustainable, thereby jeopardizing the Company’s ability to maintain product innovation and leadership. The Company has customer concentration. A significant portion of the Company’s revenues have been recognized from a limited number of customers. A decline in revenue from the customers on which we are dependent or the loss of a large customer could have a material effect on our financial condition and operating results. 9 During 2013, one customer of our Sinclair Technologies division represented 14% of our total revenue (2012 – one customer above 11%, 2011 and 2010 – no customer above 10%). While the Company has been diversifying its customer base, the efforts to date may be insufficient to offset the effects of the quarterly variance of sales and delays associated with selling to the Government sector. The Company expects that a majority of the Satellite Systems revenues will continue to be dependent on sales to a small number of customers. The Company also expect that customers will vary from period-to-period as existing customers are under no obligation to continue buying from Norsat. The Company cannot be sure that it will be able to compete effectively with its current competitors. The Company’s markets are intensely competitive. Some competitors have technologies and products that may be more advantageous and compete directly with the Company. Some of these competitors are large, established companies which have significantly greater resources than those of the Company. Aggressive pricing is a common business dynamic in our markets. Some of our competitors have greater scale as well as a broader service offering than we have. Some of our current or potential competitors may also increase or shift their presence in new lower-cost regions to try to offset the continuous competitive pressure and increasing labor costs, may develop or acquire services comparable or superior to those we develop, combine or merge to form larger competitors, or adapt more quickly than we may to new technologies, evolving industry trends and changing customer requirements. The Company’s ability to compete effectively will depend on its ability to increase sales, attract new customers in a timely and cost effective manner and sell these products at competitive prices. The Company is dependent on others for the supply and manufacture of components and products it sells. The Company has outsourced substantially all of the manufacturing of the microwave products it sells; the Company relies on its suppliers to provide components for the production of other products. If either the manufacturers or suppliers cannot deliver products to the Company on time, its revenues and profits will be adversely affected. The Company has limited intellectual property protection. The Company’s success and ability to compete are dependent, in part, upon its proprietary technology, brand and reputation in the marketplace, and customer relationships. While the Company currently holds four patents (US Patents# 6931245; 7218289; 8200150; 8125400;) and has applied for patent protection on certain other parts of its technology, it relies primarily on trade secrets and does not have adequate trademark and patent protection on all of its technology. The Company also enters into confidentiality, and non-compete agreements with its employees and limits the access to and distribution of the product design documentation and other proprietary information. The Company cannot be sure that these efforts will deter misappropriation or prevent an unauthorized third party, including former associates and former employees, from obtaining or using information, which it deems to be proprietary. Although the Company believes that its technology does not currently infringe upon patents or trademarks held by others, the Company cannot be sure that such infringements do not exist or will not exist in the future, particularly as the number of products and competitors in its industry segment grows. If the Company experiences rapid growth and does not manage it effectively, profitability may be affected. If its technologies and products achieve widespread acceptance the Company may experience rapid growth. This growth may require the Company to hire more employees, recruit additional management, improve the Company’s financial control systems, and expand and manage the technical, sales and support service operations. The Company would need increased revenues and additional funding to operate these increased activities. If the Company does not manage its growth effectively, its profitability may be impacted. 10 The Company depends on its key employees and it cannot be sure that it will be able to keep these employees or hire and train replacements. The Company’s success depends on the skills, experience and performance of the senior management and other key personnel. While it offers competitive compensation packages and stock options to attract key employees, the Company does not carry key person insurance on these employees. Highly skilled technical employees and management in the communications industry are in demand and the market for such persons is highly competitive. The Company cannot be sure that it will be able to retain these employees or hire replacements. If the Company does not successfully retain the key personnel or hire and train replacements it will be unable to develop the new products and technologies necessary to compete in its markets or to effectively manage its business. The Company intends to expand its international operations, and thus faces a number of risks including tariffs, export controls and other trade barriers; political and economic instability in foreign markets; and fluctuations in foreign currencies. These external risks may not be under the Company’s control. Additional human and financial resources may be required for this expansion which the Company may not be able to attract or afford. Failure to expand internationally may impact the Company’s prospects for revenue growth and profitability. The Company may encounter difficulties completing or integrating our acquisitions which could adversely affect our operating results. The Company expects to expand its presence in new end markets or expand our capabilities, some of which may occur through acquisitions. These transactions may involve acquisitions of entire companies and/or acquisitions of selected assets of companies. Potential difficulties related to our acquisitions include: integrating acquired operations, systems and businesses; retaining customer, supplier, employee or other business relationships of acquired operations; addressing unforeseen liabilities of acquired businesses; limited experience with new technologies; and not achieving anticipated business volumes. Any of these factors could prevent the Company from realizing the anticipated benefits of an acquisition, including additional revenue, operational synergies and economies of scale. The Company’s failure to realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions could adversely affect our business and operating results. The Company sells products which may, in certain instances, be subject to export and/or re-export restrictions. The export laws of the governments of Canada and United States apply to products that the Company sells. The United States Department of Commerce, through its Export Administration Regulations, and the Government of Canada, through its Export Controls Division, regulate exports and re-exports of "dual-use" items, i.e., goods, software and technologies with commercial and proliferation/ military applications. In ascertaining whether such items may be subject to export control restrictions, the Company is sometime forced to rely on information in the specifications of certain components from the manufacturers and vendors. Should this information later prove to be incorrect, the Company may be subjected to penalties and fines. It may also be subjected to penalties and fines should there be a breach in the processes. The Company buys components and products which may, in certain instances, be subject to contractual obligations to purchase minimum quantities during a given period, maintain resale records and abide by certain resale restrictions. Failure to fulfil any or all of these may negatively impact liquidity should the Company be forced to take ownership of any un-purchased units. It may also affect the Company’s ability to continue supplying products as originally specified and thus affect obligations to fulfil orders. The Company may be subject to product liability claims, which are not fully covered by insurance. The manufacture, sale and marketing of the Company’s products expose us to the 11 risk of product liability claims. Given the complex nature of our products, the products may contain undetected errors or performance problems may arise. Although the Company’s products undergo testing prior to release into the market, it is possible that such products may yet still contain errors and performance problems, which are discovered only after commercial introduction. If these defects and errors are discovered after shipment, they could result in a loss of sales revenues, delay in market acceptance, product returns, warranty claims and the loss of a potential market. In addition, components and other products manufactured and distributed by others, which are incorporated into the Company’s products, may also contain such defects and errors, which could substantially reduce the performance of the products. The Company is also at risk of exposure to potential product liability claims from distributors and end-users for damages resulting from defects in products that it distributes. Although product defects have not been a significant factor, the Company maintains comprehensive general liability insurance which provides limited coverage against claims originating in product failure. The Company cannot be sure that this insurance will be adequate to cover all claims brought against us or that this insurance will continue to be available to us on acceptable terms. If these claims are not fully covered by the Company’s product liability insurance, they could severely and negatively impact the business liability insurance coverage and the available cash resources. A product liability claim, even one without merit or for which the Company has substantial coverage, could result in significant legal defence costs, thereby increasing the expenses, lowering the earnings and, depending on revenues, potentially resulting in additional losses. The Company’s operations may be disrupted by natural disasters and extreme weather conditions. The Company’s headquarters is located in the Greater Vancouver region which has, in recent times, been subjected to high winds and extreme weather conditions. While the Company has managed to continue operating through some of these conditions, employee productivity during these periods is negatively impacted. Long sales and implementation cycles for the Company’s products may adversely affect its operating results. The Company’s customers generally devote substantial time, money and other resources to their purchasing decisions. Typically, the larger the potential sale, the more time, money and other resources will be invested. As a result, it may take many months or a few years after the first contact with a customer before a sale may actually be completed. The Company may invest significant sales and other resources in a potential customer that may not generate revenue for a substantial period of time, if at all. Long sales and implementation cycles may affect the size or timing of the order or even cause it to be cancelled. For example, purchasing decisions may be postponed, or large purchases reduced, during periods of economic uncertainty; the Company or its competitors may announce or introduce new products; or the customer’s own budget and purchasing needs may change. In addition, long sales and implementation cycles may impact the margins the Company earn on our products. It may cost the Company more to produce our products by the time the purchasing decision is made due to increased supply costs or currency fluctuations. If these events were to occur, sales of the Company’s products may be cancelled or delayed, which would reduce its revenue. Mergers or other strategic transactions by competitors could weaken the Company’s competitive position or reduce its revenue. If one or more of the Company’s competitors were to merge or partner with another of its competitors, the change in the competitive landscape could adversely affect the Company’s ability to compete effectively. The Company’s competitors may also establish or strengthen co-operative relationships with existing or prospective clients, thereby limiting the Company’s ability to promote its products and services. Disruptions in the Company’s business caused by these events could reduce its competitiveness and ultimately its revenue. If the Company’s suppliers do not supply it with a sufficient amount and quality of components at acceptable prices, and in a timely manner, its ability to manufacture the Company’s products would be harmed and the business would suffer. The Company relies on third-party suppliers to provide components and product subassemblies. A supplier’s failure to supply components or product subassemblies in a timely manner, or failure to supply components 12 or product subassemblies that meet the Company’s quality, quantity or cost requirements, or its inability to obtain substitute sources of these components or product subassemblies in a timely manner or on terms acceptable to the Company, could adversely affect its ability to manufacture or source products. The Company may experience delays in the manufacture or sourcing of products and the business and financial results would suffer if the Company fails to identify alternate suppliers, or if the Company’s supply is interrupted or reduced or if there is a significant increase in cost. The Company’s level of indebtedness and failure to comply with its indebtedness arrangements may adversely affect its business and operations. The Company relies on the availability of indebtedness arrangements with its lenders. The arrangements contain numerous restrictive covenants that limit the Company’s discretion with respect to certain business matters. These covenants place significant restrictions on the Company’s ability to pledge or create liens or other encumbrances on its assets. These financial covenants require the Company to meet certain financial ratios and financial condition tests. If the lender was to demand or cancel these facilities, there can be no assurance that the Company’s assets would be sufficient to repay in full the indebtedness. It is possible that the Company will not have sufficient funds at the time to fund its operations. In addition, there can be no assurance that future borrowings or equity financing will be available to the Company or available on acceptable terms, in an amount sufficient to meet its repayment obligations. In the event that the lending arrangements cannot be refinanced, or if they can only be refinanced on terms that are less favourable than the current terms, the Company’s business and operations may be adversely affected. The Company is subject to the risk of increased income taxes and our ability to successfully defend tax audits could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. The Company conducts business operations in a number of countries. The Company develops its tax filing positions based upon the anticipated nature and structure of our business and the tax laws, administrative practices and judicial decisions currently in effect in the jurisdictions in which the Company have assets or conduct business, all of which are subject to change or differing interpretations, possibly with retroactive effect. In addition, certain of our subsidiaries provide financing, products and services to, and may from time-to-time undertake certain significant transactions with, other subsidiaries in different jurisdictions. Moreover, several jurisdictions in which the Company operates have tax laws with detailed transfer pricing rules which require that all transactions with non-resident related parties be priced using arm’s length pricing principles, and that contemporaneous documentation must exist to support such pricing. The Company is subject to tax audits and reviews by local tax authorities of historical information and our contemporaneous documentation which could result in additional tax expense in future periods relating to prior results. Any such increase in our income tax expense and related interest and penalties could have a significant impact on the Company’s future earnings and future cash flows. Any failure to successfully manage the Company’s international operations would have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and operating results. The Company has operations in numerous countries, including Canada, United States, United Kingdom and Switzerland. International operations are subject to inherent risks which may adversely affect us, including: labor unrest and differences in regulations and statutes governing employee relations; changes in regulatory requirements; inflation and rising costs; difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations; ability to build infrastructure to support operations; changes in local tax rates or adverse tax consequences, including the repatriation of earnings; compliance with a variety of foreign laws, including changing import and export regulations; adverse changes in trade policies between countries in which we maintain operations; 13 economic and political instability; potential restrictions on the transfer of funds; and foreign exchange risks. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE VALUE OF NORSAT SHARES The exercise of the existing outstanding options may substantially dilute the value of the Company’s common shares. The Company has unlimited number of Common Stock authorized, of which 58,316,532 were outstanding at March 14, 2014. Although the Board of Directors has no present intention to do so, it has the authority, within parameters set by the Toronto Stock Exchange (the “TSX”), without action by the shareholders, to issue authorized and unissued shares of Common Stock. Any series of Preferred Stock, if and when established and issued, could also have rights superior to shares of the Company’s Common Stock, particularly in regard to voting, the payment of dividends and upon liquidation of Norsat. Convertible debt, if issued to raise additional working capital for the Company, could also have dilutive effect for shareholders. The current financial market volatility can result in wide fluctuations in the market price of the Company's stock. Although the Company has reported profitability in all four quarters of 2013 and 2012, the third quarter of 2011 and in 17 consecutive quarters starting from the fourth quarter of 2006, the Company has also reported losses in the first, second and fourth quarters of 2011. Despite the previously mentioned profitable results, the uncertainty and volatility in current financial markets can result in wide fluctuations in the market price of the Company’s stock. The Company’s operating results have varied on a quarterly basis in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH FOREIGN EXCHANGE The Company’s operations are heavily exposed to fluctuations in foreign currencies. Most of the Company’s international sales are denominated primarily in US dollars, Euros and Great British pounds. While the Company expects its international revenues and expenses will continue to be denominated primarily in US dollars, a portion of its international revenues and expenses may be denominated in other foreign currencies in the future. As the functional currency is the United States dollar, the Company could experience and has experienced the risks of fluctuating currencies. A stronger Canadian dollar increases operating expenses on conversion to the U.S. dollar. From time to time the Company may choose to engage in currency hedging activities, which may be unsuccessful and expensive. A 1% appreciation (depreciation) in the United States dollar price of Canadian dollars would result in gain (loss) of approximately $195,000 (2012 - $180,000, 2011 – $177,000, 2010 - $90,000). 