ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors That May Affect Our Business Our business, results of operation and financial condition could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including the following: We have experienced significant losses, and we may incur significant losses in the future. We have a history of significant losses, including net losses of $4,773,000 in 2006, $2,019,000 in 2005 and $4,979,000 in 2004, and an accumulated deficit of $93,561,000 as of December 31, 2006. We may also incur future operating and net losses, due in part to expenditures required to implement our business strategies. Despite significant expenditures, we may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability. Moreover, if we do achieve profitability, the level of any profitability cannot be predicted and may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Our success depends on our ability to grow our Buzztime iTV Network revenue and implement our other business strategies. We expect to derive approximately 95% of our revenue for at least the next several years from our Buzztime iTV Network. Accordingly, our success depends on our ability to increase market awareness and encourage the adoption of the Buzztime brand and our iTV game service among establishments such as restaurants, sports bars, taverns and pubs, and within the interactive game player community. Our success also depends on our ability to increase customer retention. We may not be able to leverage our resources to expand awareness of and demand for our iTV game service. In addition, our efforts to improve our game platform and content may not succeed in generating additional demand for our products within the player community or strengthening the loyalty and retention of our existing customers. The degree of market adoption of Buzztime will depend on many factors, 12 including consumer preferences, the availability of competing products and services, and our ability to leverage our brand. Our success also depends on our ability to implement our other business strategies, which include improving our product segmentation, focusing on national accounts and growing our advertising revenue. The implementation of these strategies will require us to dedicate significant resources to, among other things, expanding our product offerings, customizing our products and services to meet the unique needs of our national accounts and expanding and improving our advertising efforts. There can be no assurance that we will be able to implement these strategies as currently planned. We must compete effectively within the highly competitive interactive gaming, entertainment and software industries. We face intense competition in the markets in which we operate. Our Buzztime iTV Network faces significant competition from other companies for total revenues in the overall market for entertainment in public venues. Additionally, we do compete for total entertainment dollars in the marketplace. Other forms of entertainment provided in public venues include music-based systems, live entertainment, cable and pay-per-view programming, coin-operated single-player games/amusements and traffic-building promotions like happy hour specials and buffets. However, none of the alternatives provide the combination of live sports and trivia entertainments distributed for 15 hours per day, 365 days per year, and most require some involvement by the venue staff to be successful. Our network programming competes generally with broadcast television, direct satellite programming, pay-per-view, other content offered on cable television and other forms of entertainment. Some of our competitors have greater financial or other resources available to them. We also compete with providers of other content and services available to consumers through online services. The expanded use of online networks and the internet provides computer users with an increasing number of alternatives to video games and entertainment software. With this increasing competition and the rapid pace of change in product and service offerings in the interactive entertainment industry, we must be able to compete in terms of technology, content and management strategy. If we fail to provide quality services and products, we will lose revenues to other competitors in the entertainment industry. Increased competition may also result in price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced gross margins, longer sales cycles, reduced revenues and loss of market share. In addition, our Software Solutions segment faces intense competition in the software industry. Several large vendors develop and market database management programs, business and management applications, collaboration products and business intelligence products that compete with our Software Solutions offerings with significantly greater financial and technical resources than ours. In addition, because new distribution methods and opportunities offered by the internet and electronic commerce have removed many of the barriers to entry that were historically faced by small and start-up companies in the software industry, we have faced additional future competition from these companies. If we cannot compete effectively in the marketplace, our profitability and our results of operations will suffer. New products, rapid technological change and the adoption of incompatible standards may render our operations obsolete or noncompetitive. The emergence of new entertainment products and technologies, changes in consumer preferences, the adoption of new industry standards and other factors may limit the life cycle of our technologies and any future products and services we develop. Accordingly, our future performance will depend on our ability to: • identify emerging technological trends and industry standards in our market; • identify changing consumer needs, desires or tastes; 13 • develop and maintain competitive technology, including new product and service offerings; • improve the performance, features and reliability of our existing products and services, particularly in response to changes in consumer preferences, technological changes and competitive offerings; and • bring technology to the market quickly at cost-effective prices. If we do not compete successfully in the development of new products and keep pace with rapid technological change, we will be unable to achieve profitability or sustain a meaningful market position. The interactive entertainment and game industry, as well as the wireless paging and software applications industries, are becoming highly competitive and subject to rapid technological changes when compared to other industries. We are aware of other companies that are introducing interactive game products on various platforms that allow players to compete across the nation. Some of these companies have substantially greater financial resources and organizational capital than we do, which could allow them to identify emerging trends and market opportunities. In addition, changes in customer tastes may render our Buzztime iTV network and its content obsolete or noncompetitive. In addition, as new digital set-top box standards or middleware platforms are defined by the cable industry, we do not know whether our Buzztime products will be compatible with such standards once defined. In addition, new digital television set-top box technology may allow consumers’ access to thousands of online game providers via an internet connection for playing on their televisions. The establishment of multiple standards could hurt our business and significantly increase our expenses, particularly if our products require significant redevelopment in order to conform to the newly established standards. Any delay or failure on our part to respond quickly, cost-effectively and sufficiently to these developments could render our existing products and services obsolete and cause us not to be competitive, resulting in a decrease in our revenues without a corresponding decrease in our expenses. We may not be successful in developing and marketing new products and services that respond to technological and competitive developments and changing customer needs. We may have to incur substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our products or services to respond to these developments. We must be able to incorporate new technologies into the products we design and develop in order to address the increasingly complex and varied needs of our customer base. Any significant delay or failure in developing new or enhanced technology, including new product and service offerings, could result in a loss of actual or potential market share and a decrease in revenues. The market for interactive television games and services is new and may not develop as anticipated. The interactive television market currently is new and emerging. The success of Buzztime Distribution within this segment will depend in part on the growth and development of this market in the United States, as well as on the commercialization and broad acceptance by consumers and businesses of a wide variety of interactive television products. Demand and market acceptance of recently introduced products and services are subject to a high level of uncertainty and, as a result, our profit potential is unproven. In addition, the potential size of this new market opportunity and the timing of its development and deployment are currently uncertain. The development schedules of interactive television products and services offered by our competitors have been delayed or refocused as the industry evolves. If the market for interactive television does not develop, or develops more slowly than anticipated, our revenues for this segment will not grow as fast as anticipated, if at all. If our products and services are not accepted by consumers, we are not likely to generate significant revenues or become profitable. Our products and services must achieve sufficient consumer acceptance in order to generate revenues. In particular, our Buzztime Trivia Channel for cable television faces risks related to consumers’ willingness to accept interactive television products and our trivia programming. If interactive television does not become a 14 successful, scaleable medium or if consumers do not accept our trivia play-along sports games and other game products, then we will be unable to draw revenues from advertising, direct-marketing of third-party products, subscription fees or pay-per-play fees. Until a sufficient market develops for the digital set-top boxes enabled to run our interactive television game applications, our profit potential is uncertain. We may also be unable to attract local cable operators to add Buzztime programming as a channel to their service. If consumers fail to adopt our products and services, we will not be able to generate sales, and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be harmed. If changes in the economy and consumer spending reduce demand for our products and services, our sales and profitability could suffer. Many of our products and services are targeted at the interactive gaming and entertainment market. As a result, sales of our products and services will require that consumers have sufficient disposable income and leisure time. Adverse changes in the economy may cause consumers to reassess their spending choices and choose less expensive interactive entertainment options over our products and services, or may reduce demand for interactive entertainment activities in general. A shift of this nature could impair our ability to generate sales and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations If we do not successfully address risks associated with the proposed disposition of our Wireless and Software Solutions businesses, our growth may be impaired and our current business may suffer. In order to implement our business strategy successfully, we must streamline our operations by divesting business units that do not operate within our core business in the entertainment division, particularly NTN Wireless and Software Solutions. In January 2007, we entered into a letter of intent to sell the assets related to our Wireless business. The sale is expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2007. There can be no assurance, however, that the sale will be completed within the time frames or upon the terms and conditions anticipated by us, or at all. Additionally, we continue our efforts to sell our Software Solutions business; however, to date we have not received any offers that we are currently considering. If we are unable to successfully divest business units that no longer complement our overall business strategy, our growth may be impaired and our business and results of operations may be harmed. If intellectual property law and practice do not adequately protect our proprietary rights and intellectual property, our business could be seriously damaged. We rely on a combination of trademarks, copyrights and trade secret laws to protect our proprietary rights in some of our products. We believe that the success of our business also depends on such factors as the technical expertise, innovative skills and marketing and customer relations abilities of our employees. It is our policy that all employees and consultants involved in research and development activities sign non-disclosure agreements. Our competitors and former employees and consultants may, however, misappropriate our technology or independently develop technologies that are as good as, or better than, ours. Our competitors may also challenge or circumvent our proprietary rights. If we have to initiate or defend against an infringement claim in the future to protect our proprietary rights, the litigation over such claims could be time-consuming and costly to us, adversely affecting our financial condition. From time to time, we hire or retain employees or external consultants who may work for other companies developing products similar to those offered by us. These other employers may claim that our products are based on their products and that we have misappropriated their intellectual property. Any such litigation could prevent us from exploiting our proprietary portfolio and cause us to incur substantial costs, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business. 15 As of December 31, 2006, we owned one U.S. patent covering certain aspects of technology related to an interactive learning system. This patent will expire in 2017. As of December 31, 2006, we had applied for three additional patents in the United States. Our pending patent applications and any future applications might not be approved. Our patents might not provide us with competitive advantages. Third parties might challenge our patents. In addition, patents held by third parties might have an adverse effect on our ability to do business. Furthermore, third parties might independently develop similar products, duplicate our products or, to the extent patents are issued to us, design around those patents. Others may have filed and in the future may file patent applications that are similar or identical to ours. Such third-party patent applications might have priority over patent applications filed by us. To determine the priority of inventions, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office. Such interference proceedings could result in substantial cost to us. We may be liable for the content we make available on the Buzztime iTV Network, the Buzztime Trivia Channel and the internet. We make content available on the Buzztime iTV Network, the Buzztime Trivia Channel for cable television and the internet. The availability of this content could result in claims against us based on a variety of theories, including defamation, obscenity, negligence or copyright or trademark infringement. We could also be exposed to liability for third-party content accessed through the links from our websites to other websites. Federal laws may limit, but not eliminate, our liability for linking to third-party websites that include materials that infringe copyrights or other rights, so long as we comply with certain statutory requirements. We may incur costs to defend against claims related to either our own content or that of third parties, and our financial condition could be materially adversely affected if we are found liable for information that we make available. Implementing measures to reduce our exposure may require us to spend substantial resources and may limit the attractiveness of our services to users which would impair our profitability and harm our business operations. We may face exposure on sales and/or use taxes in various states. From time to time, state tax authorities will make inquiries as to whether or not a portion of our services might require the collection of sales and use taxes from customers in those states. In the current difficult economic climate, many states are expanding their interpretation of their sales and use tax statutes to derive additional revenue. While in the past the sales and use tax assessments we have paid have not been significant to our operations, it is likely that such expenses will grow in the future. Our products and services are subject to government regulations that may restrict our operations or cause demand for our products to decline significantly. We are subject not only to regulations applicable to businesses generally, but also to laws and regulations that apply directly to the interactive television products and gaming industries. In the area of interactive television products, state and federal governments may adopt a number of laws and regulations governing any of the following issues: • user privacy; • copyrights; • consumer protection; • media distribution of specific material or content; and • the characteristics and quality of interactive television products and services. One or more states or the federal government could enact regulations aimed at companies like us that provide interactive television products. Any such legislation or regulation could dampen the growth of the 16 interactive television industry and have an impact on our Buzztime Network products and services and our operations. If such a reduction in growth occurs, demand for our interactive television products and services may decline significantly. In addition, we operate games of skill and chance that, in some instances, reward prizes. These games are regulated in many jurisdictions. The selection of prizewinners is sometimes based on chance, although none of our games require any form of monetary payment. We also operate interactive skill card games, such as Texas Hold’em poker and Blackjack. These skill card games are restricted in several jurisdictions. The laws and regulations that govern these games, however, are subject to differing interpretations in each jurisdiction and are subject to legislative and regulatory change in any of the jurisdictions in which we offer our games. If such changes were to happen, we may find it necessary to eliminate, modify or cancel certain components of our products, which could result in additional development costs and/or the possible loss of revenue. We are dependent on our key management personnel, and the loss of any of these individuals may adversely affect our business. Our success greatly depends on the efforts of Dario Santana, our Chief Executive Officer (CEO), and other members of our management team. Our ability to operate successfully will depend significantly on the services and contributions of the individuals in executive positions. Our management team has recently undergone some changes, including the resignations of Stanley B. Kinsey, our former CEO, and Andy Wrobel, our former Chief Financial Officer (CFO), in July 2006 and August 2006, respectively. The loss of any of our key management personnel, or our inability to recruit qualified members of our management team, will significantly harm our business. Our success depends on our ability to recruit and retain skilled professionals for our business. Our business requires experienced programmers, creative designers, application developers and sales and marketing personnel. Our success will depend on identifying, hiring, training and retaining such experienced and knowledgeable professionals. We must recruit talented professionals in order for our business to grow. There is significant competition for employees with the skills required to develop the products and perform the services we offer. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract a sufficient number of qualified employees in the future to sustain and grow our business, or that we will be successful in motivating and retaining the employees we are able to attract. If we cannot attract, motivate and retain qualified technical and sales and marketing professionals, our business, financial condition and results of operations will suffer. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and trade barriers could harm our business. On December 15, 2003, we acquired, through NTN Canada, most of the operating assets, certain liabilities and the operations of NTN Interactive Network from Chell Group Corporation. Through this transaction, we acquired an additional 350 customer sites that pay us in Canadian dollars to use our interactive technology and to receive our game service. Additionally, we now operate the Buzztime iTV Network in the United Kingdom and receive payment in Great Britain Pounds (GBP) from U.K. subscribers who use our technology and receive our game service. Since service fees and operating expenses from both our Canadian and United Kingdom subsidiaries are recognized in their local currencies, our financial results could be significantly affected by large fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates or by weak economic conditions in foreign markets. To the extent we attempt to expand our sales efforts in international markets, we may also face difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, longer payment cycles and problems with collecting accounts receivable and increased risks of piracy and limits on our ability to enforce our intellectual property rights. If we are unable to adequately address the risks of doing business abroad, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. 17 Communication failures with our subscriber locations could result in the cancellation of subscribers and a decrease in our revenues. We rely on both satellite and telephone systems to communicate with our subscriber locations. We currently transmit the majority of our data to our hospitality customer sites via DSL connectivity and, to a lesser extent, via PanAmSat’s Galaxy IIIR satellite. At December 31, 2006, 48% of our sites connected by DSL and 52% of our sites were connected by satellite. An interruption in communications with our subscriber locations under either system could decrease customer loyalty and satisfaction and result in a cancellation of our services. In the event that we are forced to switch to another satellite, we could incur significant costs associated with re-pointing our VSAT satellite receivers. In addition, we could experience higher operating costs to transmit data to our customers via telephone lines and the internet during the transition period. Because United States satellite operators are federally licensed, we also face a potential risk that the government could preempt our satellite for national security reasons. Any disruption to our communications with our subscribers may result in a decrease in revenues or an increase in expenses, and may harm our results of operations and financial condition. Risk Factors Associated with our Common Stock Our common stock could be delisted or suspended from trading on the American Stock Exchange (AMEX). At December 31, 2006, we were in compliance with AMEX listing standards. If we fail to maintain compliance with these standards, our common stock may not remain listed on AMEX or any other exchange or quotation system in the future. If our common stock is delisted from AMEX and transferred to the over-the-counter market, the spreads between the bid and ask prices for our common stock may increase and the execution time for orders may be longer. The delisting of our common stock from AMEX may result in decreased liquidity by making the trading of our stock less efficient. In October 2006, we received a letter from the AMEX stating that we were out of compliance with Section 121(B)(2)(a)(i) and Section 121(B)(2)(a)(ii) of the AMEX Company Guide, which require that issuers maintain an Audit Committee of at least three members, each of whom is independent, and that each issuer’s Audit Committee include at least one member who is financially sophisticated. In November 2006, we remedied this noncompliance by appointing a new director to the Audit Committee who met the independence and financial sophistication requirements. However, there can be no assurance that we will continue to meet the listing standards of AMEX or any other exchange, or that we will be able to remedy any future non-compliance. Our stock price has been highly volatile and your investment could suffer a decrease in value. The trading price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, subject to wide fluctuations. Our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new products and media properties by us or our competitors, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable, and news reports relating to trends in our markets. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market prices for technology-related companies in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our stock, regardless of our operating performance. 18 Our charter contains provisions that may hinder or prevent a change in control of our company, which could result in our inability to approve a change in control and potentially receive a premium over the current market value of your stock. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if such a change in control would benefit our stockholders. For example, our certificate of incorporation requires a supermajority vote of at least 80% of the total voting power, voting together as a single class, to amend certain provisions of such document, including those provisions relating to: • the number, election and term of directors; • the removal of directors and the filling of vacancies; and • the supermajority voting requirements of our restated certificate of incorporation. These provisions could discourage third parties from taking control of our company. Such provisions may also impede a transaction in which you could receive a premium over then current market prices and your ability to approve a transaction that you consider in your best interests. Future sales of our common stock reserved for issuance pursuant to stock option and warrant exercises may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market or the anticipation of such sales could have a material adverse effect on then-prevailing market prices. As of December 31, 2006, there were approximately 9,318,000 shares of common stock reserved for issuance upon the exercise of outstanding stock options at weighted average exercise prices ranging from $1.05 to $3.36 per share. As of December 31, 2006, there were also outstanding warrants to purchase an aggregate of approximately 1,344,000 shares of common stock at weighted average exercise prices ranging from $1.11 to $3.19 per share. These outstanding options and warrants could adversely affect our ability to obtain future financing or engage in certain mergers or other transactions because the holders of the options and warrants may exercise these derivative securities when we are attempting to raise additional capital through a new offering of securities at a price per share that exceeds the exercise price of such options and warrants. To the extent the trading price of our common stock at the time of exercise of any of our outstanding options or warrants exceeds the exercise price, such exercise will have a dilutive effect on our stockholders. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 