Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following are the material risk factors we face. You should carefully consider each of the following risk factors and all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If that happens, the trading prices of our common stock and other securities we may issue in the future could decline significantly. The risk factors below contain forward-looking statements regarding Concurrent. Actual results could differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. See “Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” on page 39. Risks Related to Our Business A significant portion of our revenue has been, and is expected to continue to be, concentrated in a small number of customers and our customer base may be subject to further consolidation. If we are unsuccessful in maintaining and expanding relationships with these customers or lose any of these customers, our business will be adversely affected. Cox and TWC each accounted for approximately 13% of our fiscal year 2014 total revenue and each accounted for approximately 12% of our fiscal year 2013 total revenue. Cox and TWC also each accounted for approximately 23% our fiscal year 2014 total video solutions revenue and 20% of our fiscal year 2013 total video solutions revenue. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012, Jupiter Telecommunications accounted for approximately 20% of our total revenue and approximately 34% of our video solutions revenue. If we are unsuccessful in maintaining and expanding key relationships with these and other existing customers or if these customers’ purchasing levels are reduced, our business will be materially adversely affected. Further, if we are unsuccessful in establishing relationships with other large companies or experience problems in any of our systems, our ability to attract new customers and sell additional products to existing customers will be materially adversely affected. Due to our limited customer base and the relative size of each customer compared to Concurrent, our customers may make extensive demands upon our business. Such demands may include high levels of contractual service, product-improvement obligations and severe price pressure. In addition, our failure to adequately perform under these contracts could result in liquidated damages. The payment of any liquidated damages or failure to meet our customers’ expectations could substantially harm our future business prospects. We typically do not have written agreements that require customers to purchase fixed minimum quantities of our products. Our sales to specific customers tend to, and are expected to continue to, vary from year-to-year, depending on such customers’ budgets for capital expenditures and new product introductions. Further, such expenditures may be reduced, delayed or cancelled as a result of the continuing global economic slowdown on each of these customers’ businesses. 10 Table of Contents In North America, video service providers have widely adopted video solutions over the past decade. Many will be reluctant to change vendors as systems are upgraded, due to the integration into their network. As a result, future opportunities for new sales of video servers into these markets may be limited. We depend on a small number of domestic cable multiple system operators (“MSOs”) for a substantial proportion of our domestic revenues. Any decrease or delay in capital spending for advanced technologies harms our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. The capital spending patterns of our existing and potential customers are dependent on a variety of factors, including: · annual budget cycles; · technology adoption cycles and network architectures of service providers, and evolving industry standards that may impact them; · changes in general economic conditions; · changes in strategic focus; · competitive pressures, including pricing pressures; and · discretionary customer spending patterns. We expect these sales to continue to constitute a significant majority of our revenues for the foreseeable future. Demand for our products will depend on the magnitude and timing of capital spending by service providers on advanced technologies for constructing and upgrading their network infrastructure. Continued slowdowns or delays in this spending would likely have a material adverse impact on our quarterly revenues and could result in net losses. A loss of our government contracts and/or orders would have a material adverse effect on our business. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from the supply of systems under government contracts and/or orders. For the fiscal years ended June 30, 2014 and 2013, we recorded $10.1 million and $9.6 million, respectively, in revenue to U.S. government prime contractors and agencies of the U.S. government. These sales represent approximately 14% and 15% of our total sales in the fiscal years ended June 30, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Government business is subject to many risks, such as delays in funding, reduction or modification of contracts or subcontracts, changes in governmental policies or regulations which could significantly increase the cost of doing business with the government and the imposition of budgetary constraints. Many governments are struggling to balance their budgets which could further reduce funding for contracts. A loss of government contract revenues would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We depend on U.S. Government customers for a significant portion of our revenue, and sequestration (automatic, across-the-board U.S. Government budgetary spending cuts) currently required under the Budget Control Act of 2011 and the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 may have adverse consequences on our future business. U.S. Government spending priorities and Department of Defense spending levels continue to be uncertain and difficult to predict and may be affected by numerous factors, including whether sequestration currently required under the Budget Control Act of 2011 and the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 and their actual impact on the Department of Defense budget and other programs. A shift in U.S. government spending priorities, or a reduction in total U.S. government spending, could have material adverse consequences on our future business. If the U.S. government budget process results in a prolonged shutdown or prolonged operation under a continuing resolution, we may experience further delayed orders, delayed payments, declines in revenues, profitability and cash flows. Sales to the U.S. government, prime contractors and agencies of the U.S. government represented between 13% and 15% of our total revenues in each of the past 3 fiscal years and our expected revenue for fiscal year 2015 and beyond depends, in part, on receiving a similar level of new orders from the U.S. government, which remains uncertain and difficult to predict. If the U.S. government budget process results in a prolonged shutdown or prolonged operation under a continuing resolution, we may experience delayed orders, delayed payments, declines in revenues, profitability and cash flows. All of the aforementioned conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial outlook, our operating results and our financial condition. 11 Table of Contents If revenues forecasted for a particular period are not realized in such period due to the lengthy, complex and unpredictable sales cycles of our products, our operating results, financial condition and cash flows for that or subsequent periods will be adversely affected. The sales cycles of our products are typically lengthy, complex and unpredictable and usually involve: · a significant technical evaluation period; · a significant commitment of capital and other resources by service providers; · substantial time required to engineer the deployment of our products; · substantial time and expense testing and qualifying new technologies; and · substantial time and expense deploying new technologies into their networks. For these and other reasons, our sales cycles are generally between 6 and 18 months, but can last longer. If orders forecasted for a specific customer for a particular quarter do not occur in that quarter, our operating results, financial condition and cash flows for that quarter or subsequent quarters could be substantially lower than anticipated. Our quarterly and annual results may fluctuate significantly due to revenue recognition rules and the timing of the receipt of customer orders. Additionally, service revenues such as installation services associated with product sales are impacted by such delays. If we fail to develop and market new products and product enhancements in a timely manner, our business could be adversely affected. Our future success is dependent on our development and marketing of additional products that achieve market acceptance and enhance our current products. In addition, services, products or technologies developed by others may render one or more of our products or technologies uncompetitive, unmarketable or obsolete. Our future success will depend on our ability to continue to enhance our existing products, including development of new applications for our technology, and to develop and introduce new products to meet and adapt to changing customer requirements and emerging technologies. Our failure to respond to rapidly changing technologies could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our efforts to trim expenses in research and development could have the unintended consequence of impacting our delivery of new products or enhancements to existing products. Our inability to develop, on a timely basis, new products or enhancements to existing products, or the failure of such new products or enhancements to achieve market acceptance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in pursuing any new products or enhancements to existing products. We are adapting our video solutions products to add features allowing deployments to cable, IPTV, and Internet CDN providers to enable multi-screen video delivery. The changes will require new knowledge sets, especially in research and development, and will require us to develop and sell new products to new customers. A failure to execute on this transition will adversely affect our business. Our video expertise for more than ten years has been focused on the VOD market. Although we have been successful in VOD, we recognize it is a relatively limited market and, as such, we are transitioning the business to serve video to all devices. In order to accomplish this transformation, we have rolled out a new strategic plan and we are executing against that plan. We are introducing the products necessary to serve these new markets. We have also invested in new sales professionals to help us sell our existing and new products to a wider customer set. We believe that these steps are necessary, but that they will be expensive. We are making these investments in a challenging macroeconomic environment and may be unable to develop or sell any new marketable products. In addition, we face robust competition both from internally-developed solutions and from large, well-positioned companies. If we are not successful in establishing new products and new customers, we will have expended considerable effort and capital to transition the business and will not have received any economic benefit. 12 Table of Contents We cannot guarantee that our products and services will keep pace with technological developments and emerging industry standards, address the changing needs of our customers or achieve market acceptance, any of which could materially adversely affect our business. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and new product introductions and enhancements. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in enhancing our current and planned video solutions and real-time products or developing, integrating and marketing new products that satisfy customer needs or achieve market acceptance. In addition, services, products or technologies developed by others may render one or more of our products or technologies uncompetitive, unmarketable or obsolete. Future technological advances may result in the availability of new products and services that could compete with our solutions or reduce the cost of existing products or services. Our future success will depend on our ability to continue to enhance our existing products, including development of new applications for our technology, and to develop and introduce new products to meet and adapt to changing customer requirements and emerging technologies. Further, announcements of currently planned or other new product offerings by our competitors may cause customers to defer purchase decisions or to fail to purchase our existing solutions. Our failure to respond to rapidly changing technologies could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The introduction of broadband Internet video services for televisions may gain traction, thus replacing current VOD services and causing a negative impact on our revenue associated with our video solutions. A number of well-funded companies such as Amazon, Apple, Hulu, Google, Netflix, and Yahoo are or will be capable of delivering Internet video services for home television viewing. As these products are developed, successfully deployed and embraced by consumers, our customers may discontinue purchases of our video solutions products. We have experienced competitive pricing pressure for our products and services and expect to continue to experience this pressure. As pricing pressures continue, it may impact our revenue and call into question our ability to achieve and maintain profitability. Over the years, our industry has experienced a decrease in average selling prices. We anticipate that the average selling prices of our products will continue to decrease in the future in response to competitive pricing pressures, increased sales discounts and new product introductions by our competitors. We may experience substantial decreases in future operating results, financial condition and cash flows due to a decrease of our average selling prices. We also anticipate that our gross margins will fluctuate from period to period as a result of the mix of products we sell in any given period. If our sales of lower margin products significantly expand in future quarterly periods, our overall gross margin levels, operating results, financial condition and cash flows would be adversely impacted. We incurred net losses in the past and may incur further losses in the future. We incurred net losses of $2.9, $3.3, $1.0, and $14.5 million in fiscal years ended June 30, 2012, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. Our $14.5 million net loss in fiscal year 2009 included a one-time $17.1 million non-cash impairment of intangibles. As of June 30, 2014, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $169.0 million. We may have difficulty sustaining profitable operations and incur additional net losses in the future. We have taken and continue to take measures to address the variability in the market for our products and services, which could have long-term negative effects on our business or impact our ability to adequately address an increase in customer demand. We have taken and continue to take measures to address the variability in the market for our products and services, to increase average revenue per unit of our sales and to reduce our operating expenses, rationalize capital expenditure and minimize customer turnover. We cannot ensure that the measures we have taken will not impair our ability to effectively develop and market products and services, to remain competitive in the industries in which we compete, to operate effectively, to operate profitably during slowdowns or to effectively meet a rapid increase in customer demand. These measures may have long-term negative effects on our business by reducing our pool of technical and operational talent, decreasing or slowing improvements in our products and services, making it more difficult to hire and retain talented individuals and to quickly respond to customers or competitors in an upward cycle. 13 Table of Contents If we are unable to manage change in our operations effectively, our business may be harmed through a diminished ability to monitor and control effectively our operations, and a decrease in the quality of work and innovation of our employees. Our ability to successfully offer new products and services and implement our business plan in a rapidly evolving market requires effective planning and management. In light of the growing complexities in managing our portfolio of products and services, our anticipated future operations may strain our technical, operational and administrative resources. A failure to manage changes in our volume of business may harm our business through a decreased ability to monitor and control effectively our operations, and a decrease in the quality of products and innovation of our employees upon which our business is dependent. If we fail to meet customers’ supply expectations, we could incur penalties, our revenue would be adversely affected and we may lose business, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Any weaknesses identified in our system of internal controls by us or our independent registered public accounting firm pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could have an adverse effect on our business. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that companies evaluate and report on their systems of internal control over financial reporting. In future periods, we may identify deficiencies in our system of internal controls over financial reporting that may require remediation. There can be no assurances that any such future deficiencies identified may not be significant deficiencies or material weaknesses that would be required to be reported in future periods. We face risks associated with the trend of increased stockholder activism. Publicly traded companies have increasingly become subject to campaigns by investors seeking to increase short-term stockholder value by advocating corporate actions such as financial restructuring, increased borrowing, special dividends, stock repurchases or even sales of assets or the entire company. Given our market capitalization and other factors, it is possible that stockholders may in the future attempt to effect such changes or acquire control over us. Responding to proxy contests and other actions by activist stockholders would be costly and time-consuming, disrupt our operations and divert the attention of our Board of Directors and senior management from the pursuit of business strategies, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We utilize open source software, which could enable our competitors to gain access to our source code and distribute it without paying any license fee to us. Key components of both our video solutions and real time products utilize open source software on Linux platforms. Some open source software, especially that provided under the GNU Public License, is provided pursuant to licenses that limit the restrictions that may be placed on the distribution and copying of the provided code. Thus, it is possible that customers or competitors could copy portions of our software and freely distribute it. This could substantially impact our business and our ability to protect our products and future business. We rely on a combination of contracts and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our proprietary rights in our technology. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could be harmed or we could be required to incur expenses to enforce our rights. Our business could also be adversely affected if we are found to be infringing on the intellectual property of others. We typically enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants, customers and vendors, in an effort to control access to and distribution of our proprietary information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology without authorization. The steps we take may not prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property, and the agreements we enter into may not be enforceable. In addition, effective copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries. 14 Table of Contents Our competitors or other companies may currently own or obtain patents or other proprietary rights that might prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use or sell our products. Further, we have indemnification obligations with numerous customers that could require us to become involved in intellectual property litigation. As a result, we may be found to be infringing on the intellectual property rights of others. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us or against a customer to which we have an indemnification obligation, our business and operating results, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. Any litigation or claims brought against us, whether or not valid, could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. Intellectual property litigation or claims brought against us could force us to do one or more of the following: · cease selling, incorporating or using products or services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; · obtain a license from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all; and · redesign products or services that incorporate the disputed technology. If we are forced to take any of the foregoing actions, we could face substantial costs and our business could be seriously harmed. Although we carry general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. In addition, we may initiate claims or litigation against third parties in the future for infringement of our proprietary rights or to determine the scope and validity of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of competitors. These claims could result in costly litigation and the diversion of our technical and management personnel and there can be no guarantee of success in any such action. As a result, our operating results could suffer and our financial condition and cash flows could be harmed. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive, and we may be unable to compete successfully against our current and future competitors, which would adversely affect our business. The markets for video solutions and real-time products are extremely competitive. Our competitors include divisions of larger public companies with an established presence in the industry. Further, as we expand our product offerings to additional delivery devices, we encounter a different set of competitors. This intense competition has negatively impacted our video solutions revenues and may severely impact our success and ability to earn additional revenue through expanding our video solutions offerings. In addition to competing against large, established video delivery product providers, our MDI products are seeing competition by internally-developed solutions. The market for our real-time products is ever changing. We face a number of well-funded competitors who could displace us. As demand shifts, we may be unable to adequately respond to customer demands or technology changes. There may be new entrants into the real-time market with better, more appropriate products. We may also experience decreasing prices for our products and services due to competition, the purchasing leverage of our customers and other factors. A list of the primary competitors we face in both of our markets and a categorization of our competitors is included under the Competition heading in Part I, Item 1., the Business section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2014. Future issuances or repurchases of our equity, or transfers of our equity by third parties, may impair our future ability to use a substantial amount of our existing net operating loss carryforwards. From time to time we complete an analysis of the ownership changes in our stock pursuant to Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Service tax code. As of June 30, 2014, the ownership change was 31.8%, compared to 32.6% as of June 30, 2013. Future transactions and the timing of such transactions could cause an additional ownership change for Section 382 income tax purposes. Section 382 limits the ability of a company that undergoes an “ownership change,” which is generally defined as any change in ownership of more than 50% of its common stock over a three-year period, to utilize its net operating loss carryforwards and certain built-in losses or deductions, as of the ownership change date, that are recognized during the five-year period after the ownership change. Such transactions may include, but are not limited to, additional repurchases or issuances of common stock, or acquisitions or sales of shares of Concurrent stock by certain holders of our shares, including persons who have held, currently hold or may accumulate in the future five percent or more of our outstanding common stock for their own account. Most of these transactions are beyond our control. If an additional ownership change were to occur for purposes of Section 382, we would be required to calculate a new annual restriction on the use of our net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income. We could lose all or a substantial part of the benefit of our accumulated net operating loss carryforwards. 15 Table of Contents We have a significant base of deployed video solutions products that our customers, over time, may decide to replace for products from other companies. A significant number of our on-demand products have been deployed for several years and may be replaced with newer products. When our customers evaluate replacing those older products, they may choose to try a different vendor. If that were to occur, we would lose future revenue opportunities from expansion as well as maintenance. Continuing uncertainties in the domestic and global economies may reduce demand for our products and services. The ongoing uncertainty in the recovery in the domestic and global economy may negatively affect our operating results, financial condition and operating results. The uncertainty in economic conditions in many of our markets may impact demand for our products and render budgeting and forecasting difficult. The difficulty in forecasting demand increases the difficulty in anticipating our inventory requirements, which may cause us to over-produce finished goods, resulting in inventory impairments, or under-produce finished goods, affecting our ability to meet customer requirements. Our operating results, financial condition and cash flows may vary based on changes in our customers’ capital expenditures. We sell our solutions primarily to large organizations whose businesses fluctuate with general economic and business conditions. As a result, decreased demand for our solutions and services caused by a weakening global economy may cause a decline in our revenue. Historically, economic downturns have resulted in overall reductions in corporate spending. In the future, potential customers may decide to reduce their budgets for capital expenditures by deferring or reconsidering product purchases, which would negatively impact our operating results, financial results and cash flows. In some cases, we rely on a limited number of suppliers, which entails several risks, including the possibility of defective parts, a shortage of components, an increase in component costs, and reduced control over delivery schedules. Our reliance on single suppliers entails a number of risks, including the possibility of defective parts, a shortage of components, increase in components costs, and reduced control over delivery schedules. Any of these events could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We estimate that a lead-time of 12-16 weeks may be necessary to switch to an alternative supplier of certain custom application specific integrated circuit and printed circuit assemblies. A change in the supplier of these components, without the appropriate lead-time, could result in a material delay in shipments by us of certain products. Where alternative sources are available, qualification of the alternative suppliers and establishment of reliable supplies of components from such sources may also result in delays. Shipping delays may also result in a delay in revenue recognition, possibly outside the fiscal period originally planned, and, as a result, may adversely affect our financial results for that particular period. See the Supplier heading in Part I, Item 1., the Business section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information. A large number of our maintenance contracts are for legacy systems that are aging and may be replaced. A large percentage of the services we provide are to customers who run our legacy hardware and systems. Over time, these systems will be replaced and the customers may not choose to purchase replacement systems from us. In such a case, our service revenue will be materially negatively impacted. 16 Table of Contents Sales to international customers accounted for approximately 42%, 39% and 50% of our revenue in fiscal years 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively. Accordingly, our business is susceptible to numerous risks associated with international operations. We are subject to a number of risks associated with international business activities that could increase our costs, lengthen our sales cycle and require significant management attention. These risks include: · compliance with, and unexpected changes in, regulatory requirements resulting in unanticipated costs and delays; · difficulties in compliance with export and re-export regulations governing U.S. goods and goods from our international subsidiaries; · lack of availability of trained personnel in international locations; · challenges in dealing with international channel partners; · tariffs, export controls and other trade barriers; · longer accounts receivable payment cycles than in the U.S.; · potential difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables in some foreign legal systems; · potential difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in certain foreign countries; · potentially adverse tax consequences, including restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; · the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws; · general economic and political conditions in international markets; and · currency exchange rate fluctuations. Our efforts to maintain channels to market and sell our products internationally may not be successful. Our international sales are supported by a combination of direct sales in certain international locations and indirect channel sales through distributor and reseller arrangements with third parties in others. We may not be able to maintain productive reseller and/or distribution agreements and/or may not be able to successfully manage these sales channels. In addition, many of our resellers also sell products from other vendors that compete with our products and may choose to focus on products of those vendors. Additionally, our ability to utilize an indirect sales model in these international markets will depend on our ability to qualify and train those resellers to perform product installations and to provide customer support. If we fail to develop and cultivate relationships with significant resellers, or if these resellers do not succeed in their sales efforts (whether because they are unable to provide support or otherwise), we may be unable to grow or sustain our revenue in international markets. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could negatively impact our financial results and cash flows. To date, most of our revenues have been denominated in U.S. dollars, while a significant portion of our international expenses are incurred in the local currencies of countries in which we operate. Because a portion of our business is conducted outside the U.S., we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve, and they could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows. An increase in the value of the dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside the U.S. where we often sell in dollars, and a weakened dollar could increase local currency operating costs. In preparing our consolidated financial statements, certain financial information is required to be translated from foreign currencies to the U.S. dollar using either the spot rate or the weighted-average exchange rate. If the U.S. dollar changes relative to applicable local currencies, there is a risk our reported sales, operating expenses, and net income could significantly fluctuate. We are not able to predict the degree of exchange rate fluctuations, nor can we estimate the effect any future fluctuations may have upon our future operations. Product failures or interruptions could cause delays in shipments, require design modifications or field replacement, which may have a negative impact on our business and damage our reputation and customer relationships. Product failures may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Despite our own testing and additional testing by current and potential customers, all errors or failures may not be found in our products prior to being deployed or, if discovered, successfully corrected in a timely manner. These errors or failures could cause delays in product introductions and shipments or require design modifications that could adversely affect our competitive position. Further, some errors may not be detected until the systems are deployed. In such a case, we may have to undertake substantial field replacement programs to correct the problem. Our reputation may also suffer if our customers view our products as unreliable, whether based on actual or perceived errors or failures in our products. 17 Table of Contents In addition, a defect, error or performance problem with our video solutions products could cause our customers’ offerings to fail for a period of time or be degraded. Any such failure would cause customer service and public relations problems for our customers. As a result, we could experience delayed or lost revenue due to adverse customer reaction, negative publicity regarding us and our products and services and claims for substantial damages against us, regardless of our responsibility for such failure. Any claim could be expensive and require us to spend a significant amount of resources. In circumstances where third party technology incorporated with or in our systems includes a defect, error or performance problem or fails for any reason, we may have to replace such third party technology at our expense and be responsible to our customers for their corresponding claims. Such tasks could be expensive and could require us to spend a significant amount of resources. Trends in our business may cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate; therefore, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not necessarily be meaningful. We have experienced significant variations in the revenue, expenses and operating results from quarter to quarter in our business, and it is likely that these variations will continue. We believe that fluctuations in the number of orders for our products being placed from quarter to quarter are principally attributable to the buying patterns and budgeting cycles of our customers. In addition, sales cycles associated with the purchase of many of our products are typically lengthy and orders are often not finalized until the end of a quarter. As a result, our results of operations have fluctuated in the past and will likely continue to fluctuate in accordance with this purchasing activity. Therefore, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not necessarily be meaningful. In addition, because these factors are difficult for us to forecast, our business, financial condition and results of operations for one quarter or a series of quarters may be adversely affected and below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could result in material declines of our stock price. Our business may be adversely affected if we fail to retain our current key personnel, many of whom would be difficult to replace, or fail to attract additional qualified personnel. Our future performance depends on the continued service of our senior management and our engineering, sales and marketing and operations personnel. Competition for qualified personnel is intense, and we may fail to retain our key employees or to attract or retain other highly qualified personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel could seriously impact our business, especially the loss of highly specialized technical personnel. Our future success also depends on our continuing ability to attract, hire, train and retain highly skilled managerial, technical, sales, marketing and customer support personnel. In addition, new employees frequently require extensive training before they achieve desired levels of productivity. We do not carry key person life insurance on any of our employees. As our products age, we may not be able to purchase necessary parts to support legacy systems currently deployed or to be deployed. With the passage of time, suppliers of essential parts may stop producing these parts. In such cases, we may be required to redesign our products to accommodate the obsolescence. If that occurs, we will have to spend considerable effort in the redesign and, in some cases, may be forced to have the redesigned products requalified. Requalification may take several months, thereby delaying expected revenue. We could be exposed to legal liability if our products were used to violate copyright laws. Our products enable recording, storing, and delivering video over commercial broadband networks. Thus, our customers could use our products without first obtaining permission from content owners to record and deliver copyrighted video. In such a situation, we could face liability for claims that our products enabled or assisted in breaching copyright laws. 18 Table of Contents If content providers, such as movie studios, limit the scope of content licensed for use in the digital video market, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected because the potential market for our products would be more limited than we currently believe. The success of the video market is contingent on content providers, such as movie studios, continuing to permit their content to be licensed for distribution in this market. Content providers may, due to concerns regarding marketing or illegal duplication of the content, limit the extent to which they provide content to the markets served by our customers and potential customers. A limitation of available content would indirectly limit the demand for our video solutions. Our facilities, especially our Pompano Beach, Florida facility, could be subject to severe weather that could shut down those facilities and halt production. All of our facilities are, from time to time, subject to severe weather that could result in a temporary shut-down of the impacted facility. However, our Pompano Beach, Florida facility is located in south Florida where there is a high risk of hurricanes. A hurricane could shut down the Pompano Beach facility for extended periods thereby making it impossible for us to assemble and ship real-time products. Further, an extended shut-down could slow the release of software products for our real-time business since most of the developers for those products are located at that facility. We may engage in future acquisitions that dilute the ownership interest of our stockholders, cause us to incur debt or assume contingent liabilities or present other challenges, such as integration issues, for our business, which if not successfully resolved would adversely affect our business. As part of our business strategy, we review acquisition prospects that would complement our current product offerings, enhance our technical capabilities or otherwise offer growth opportunities. We periodically review investments in new businesses, and we may acquire businesses, products or technologies in the future. In the event of any future acquisitions, we could issue equity securities that would dilute current stockholders’ percentage ownership, incur substantial debt, or assume contingent liabilities. These actions could materially adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Acquisitions also entail numerous risks, including: · difficulties in the assimilation of acquired operations, technologies or services; · unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition; · diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; · adverse effects on existing business relationships; · risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and · potential loss of key employees of acquired companies. We cannot assure that we will be able to successfully integrate any business, products, technologies or personnel that we might acquire in the future. Our failure to do so could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our operating results may be adversely affected by the current sovereign debt crisis and continuing recession in Europe and elsewhere and by related global economic conditions. The lingering effects of the European debt crisis and related European financial restructuring efforts may cause the value of the European currencies, including the euro, to further deteriorate, thus reducing the purchasing power of our European customers. One potential outcome of the European financial situation is the re-introduction of individual currencies in one or more Eurozone countries or the dissolution of the euro entirely. Should the euro dissolve entirely, the legal and contractual consequences for holders of euro-denominated obligations would be determined by laws in effect at such time. The potential dissolution of the euro, or market perceptions concerning this and related issues, could adversely affect the value of our euro-denominated assets and obligations. In addition, the European crisis has contributed to instability in global credit markets. The world continues to experience a global macroeconomic downturn, and if global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in Europe, the U.S. or other key markets, remain uncertain, persist, or deteriorate further, consumer purchasing power and demand for our products could decline, and we may experience material adverse impacts on our business, operating results, and financial condition. 19 Table of Contents We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights. Protecting our global intellectual property rights and combating unlicensed copying and use of software and other intellectual property is difficult. While piracy may adversely affect U.S. revenue, the impact on revenue from outside the U.S. is likely to be more significant, particularly in countries where laws are less protective of intellectual property rights. Our revenues may be impacted if our intellectual property is copied or otherwise misappropriated and we are not able to successfully assert our rights over our intellectual property. We may be unable to close sales if our intellectual property is copied; we may face increased competition if our trade secrets are disclosed; and our reputation may be negatively impacted if our company or product names are misused. Similarly, the absence of harmonized patent laws makes it more difficult to ensure consistent respect for patent rights, making enforcement more difficult. Reductions in the legal protection for software intellectual property rights could adversely affect revenue. Risks Related to Our Industries The success of our business is dependent upon the success of our multi-screen strategy and the growth in the video delivery market, which may not grow as we expect. Any failure by the market to accept and adopt video delivery in a way that aligns with our stated strategy will have a material adverse effect on our business. We believe that the business model that will support widespread multi-screen adoption of video delivery is still evolving. The potential size of the market and timing of market development is uncertain. We believe our success in these new markets will also depend on the adoption of an advertising based business model by key industry participants and our ability to offer the mix of products that allow these participants to introduce offerings which will support that model. Our business is subject to governmental regulation. Any finding that we have been or are currently in noncompliance with such laws could result in, among other things, governmental penalties or class action lawsuits. Further, changes in existing laws or new laws may adversely affect our business. We are subject to various international, U.S. federal, state and local laws affecting our video solutions and real-time product lines. The television industry is subject to extensive regulation in the U.S. and other countries. Our video solutions revenue is dependent upon the continued growth of the digital television industry in the U.S. and internationally. Broadband companies are subject to extensive government regulation by the FCC and other federal and state regulatory agencies. The 1984 Cable Act, which amended the Communications Act of 1934, established policies in the areas of ownership, channel usage, franchise provisions and renewals, subscriber rates and privacy, obscenity and lockboxes, unauthorized reception of services, equal employment opportunity, and pole attachments. The 1984 Cable Act also defined jurisdictional boundaries among federal, state and local authorities for regulating cable television systems which, among other provisions, allow for expanded regulatory powers when domestic cable penetration exceeds a threshold of 70% of U.S. households. Additional regulations could have the effect of limiting capital expenditures by our customers and thus could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we were found to be, or believed to be non-compliant with privacy laws, we could face substantial exposure to government fines or privacy litigation. This risk is important for our MDI solutions since these products monitor STB functions that could be impacted by privacy law protections. In addition, new ‘net neutrality’ legislation or regulations could be implemented or interpreted in a way that curtails certain of our products’ uses within our customer’s data networks and adversely impacts our customers’ ability to operate its those networks efficiently or profitably. This could impact our sales of those products. The enactment by federal, state or international governments of new laws or regulations could adversely affect our customers, and thereby materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our real-time revenue is also subject to strict government regulation as the result of the government work we do. The regulations deal with security clearances, privacy, employment practices, pricing, purchasing, intellectual property and integrity. If we were ever found in violation or if out of compliance, our production and resultant revenues could be halted or significantly delayed. We may be subject to liability if private information supplied to our customers is misused. Our video solutions allow companies to collect and store data that many viewers may consider confidential. Unauthorized access or use of this information could result in liability to our customers, and potentially us, and might deter potential on-demand viewers. We have no control over the policy of our customers with respect to the access to this data and the release of this data to third parties. 20 Table of Contents Other Risks Fluctuations in our future effective tax rates could affect our future operating results, financial condition and cash flows. We are required to periodically review our deferred tax assets and determine whether, based on available evidence, a valuation allowance is necessary. Accordingly, we have performed such evaluation, from time to time, based on historical evidence, trends in profitability, expectations of future taxable income and implemented tax planning strategies. Further, although we benefit from net operating loss carryforwards in the U.S., some of our foreign subsidiaries do not have such net operating losses, exposing us to tax liabilities in various countries. The calculation of tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex global tax regulations. We recognize potential liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the U.S. and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. In the event we determine that it is appropriate to create a reserve or increase an existing reserve for any such potential liabilities, the amount of the additional reserve is charged as an expense in the period in which it is determined. If payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be unnecessary, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. If the estimate of tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate tax assessment for the applicable period, a further charge to expense in the period such short fall is determined would result. Such a charge to expense could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations for the applicable period. During the fourth quarter of our fiscal year 2014, we released $13.7 million of valuation allowances against our U.S. deferred tax assets. Positive or negative changes to our business in the future may require either an additional release of our valuation allowances, which would result in additional tax benefits that would improve our net income, or require us to increase our valuation allowance, which would result in additional income tax expense that would negatively impact our net income. See Note 8 for further discussion. We have implemented certain anti-takeover provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. Provisions of Delaware law and our restated certificate of incorporation, and amended and restated bylaws, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. We are subject to certain Delaware anti-takeover laws regulating corporate takeovers. These anti-takeover laws prevent a Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination involving a merger or sale of more than 10% of our assets with any stockholder, including affiliates and associates of the stockholder, who owns 15% or more of the outstanding voting stock, for three years following the date that the stockholder acquired 15% or more of the corporation’s stock except under limited circumstances. There are provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws that also may delay, deter or impede hostile takeovers or changes of control. Our stock price has been volatile in the past and may be volatile in the future. Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Market. For the 12 months ended June 30, 2014, the high and low prices reported on the NASDAQ Global Market were $8.88 and $6.78, respectively. Further, as of August 22, 2014, the closing price as reported on the NASDAQ Global Market was $7.27. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in the future in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control, including, among others: · variations in our quarterly operating results; · changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance; · the development of the multi-screen video market in general; 21 Table of Contents · changes in market valuations of similar companies; · announcement by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · loss of a major customer or failure to complete significant transactions; · Consolidation of companies that comprise our target market; · suspension, reduction or cancellation of the quarterly dividend; and · additions or departures of key personnel. In addition, in recent years, the stock market in general, and the NASDAQ Global Market and the market for technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. In some cases, these fluctuations have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These market and industry factors may materially and adversely affect our stock price, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, class action litigation often has been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of those companies’ common stock. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Litigation is often expensive and diverts management’s attention and resources, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A sustained period of low stock price brings with it a risk that our stock will not comply with the minimum trading-price rules of the NASDAQ Global Market, and may be subject to delisting, thus significantly impacting the liquidity of our stock and our access to public capital. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 