Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following are some of the risk factors we face. You should carefully consider each of the following risk factors and all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These risks are not the only ones we face. Our business operations could also be impaired by additional risks and uncertainties that, at present, are not known to us, or that, at present, are considered immaterial. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If that happens, the trading prices of our common stock and other securities we may issue in the future could decline significantly. The risk factors below contain forward-looking statements regarding Concurrent. Actual results could differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. See “Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” on page 38. Risks Related to Our Business Continuing uncertainties in the domestic and global economies may reduce demand for our products and services. A recession in the domestic and global economy may negatively affect our operating results. The uncertainty in economic conditions in many of our markets may impact demand for our products and render budgeting and forecasting difficult. The difficulty in forecasting demand increases the difficulty in anticipating our inventory requirements, which may cause us to over-produce finished goods, resulting in inventory write-offs, or under-produce finished goods, affecting our ability to meet customer requirements. Our operating results may vary based on changes in our customers’ capital expenditures caused by uncertain conditions in the domestic and global economy. We sell our solutions primarily to large organizations whose businesses fluctuate with general economic and business conditions. As a result, decreased demand for our solutions and services caused by a weakening global economy may cause a decline in our revenue. Historically, economic downturns have resulted in overall reductions in corporate spending. In the future, potential customers may decide to reduce their budgets for capital expenditures by deferring or reconsidering product purchases, which would negatively impact our operating results. 13 Table of Contents If content providers, such as movie studios, limit the scope of content licensed for use in the digital video market, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected because the potential market for our products would be more limited than we currently believe. The success of the video market is contingent on content providers, such as movie studios, continuing to permit their content to be licensed for distribution in this market. Content providers may, due to concerns regarding marketing or illegal duplication of the content, limit the extent to which they provide content to the markets served by our customers and potential customers. A limitation of available content would indirectly limit the demand for our video systems. A significant portion of our revenue has been, and is expected to continue to be, concentrated in a small number of customers. If we are unsuccessful in maintaining and expanding relationships with these customers or lose any of these customers, our business will be adversely affected. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, Cox and Time Warner accounted for approximately 20% and 8% of our total revenues, respectively, and approximately 37% and 15% of our video solutions revenue, respectively. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, Cox and Time Warner accounted for approximately 19% and 18% of our total revenues, respectively, and approximately 30% and 28% of our video solutions revenue, respectively. If we are unsuccessful in maintaining and expanding key relationships with these and other existing customers or if these customers’ purchasing levels are reduced, our business will be materially adversely affected. Further, if we are unsuccessful in establishing relationships with other large companies or experience problems in any of our systems, our ability to attract new custo mers and sell additional products to existing customers will be materially adversely affected. Our broadband customers sometimes swap sites or purchase sites from other broadband customers. If we already have products deployed at a swapped site, the new owner may replace our products or discontinue maintenance with respect to such site. Alternatively, forecasted revenues could be negatively impacted because the new owner of the site may not need to purchase products from us due to their existing agreement with us. Due to our limited customer base and the relative size of each customer compared to Concurrent, our customers may make extensive demands upon our business. Such demands may include high levels of contractual service, product-improvement obligations and severe price pressure. In addition, our failure to adequately perform under these contracts could result in liquidated damages. The payment of any liquidated damages or failure to meet our customers’ expectations could substantially harm our future business prospects. We typically do not have written agreements that require customers to purchase fixed minimum quantities of our products. Our sales to specific customers tend to, and are expected to continue to, vary from year-to-year, depending on such customers’ budgets for capital expenditures and new product introductions. Further, such expenditures may be reduced, delayed or cancelled as a result of the continuing global economic slowdown on each of these customers’ businesses. In North America, broadband companies have widely adopted video solutions over the past decade. Many will be reluctant to change vendors as systems are upgraded, due to the integration into their network. As a result, future opportunities for new sales of video servers into these markets may be limited. We are transforming the video business and seeking to broaden from cable- and IPTV-based VOD solutions to video-to-any-screen. The transformation will require additional resources, especially in research and development, and will require us to develop and sell new products to new customers. A failure to transition the business will be costly. Our video expertise for the last ten years has been focused on the VOD market. Although we have been successful in VOD, we recognize it is a relatively small market and, as such, we plan to transition the business to serve video to all devices. In order to accomplish this transformation, we have rolled-out a new strategic plan and we have begun executing against that plan. We are currently investing in research and development resources to develop the products necessary to serve these new markets. We have also invested in new sales professionals to help us sell our existing and new products to a wide customer set. We believe that these steps are necessary, but they are expensive. We are making these investments in a challenging macro-economic environment and may be unable to develop or sell any new marketable products. In addition, we may face robust competition both from internally-developed solutions and from larger and better-positioned companies. If we are not successful in establishing new products and new customers, we will have expended considerable effort and capital to transition the business and will not have received any economic benefit. 14 Table of Contents We utilize open source software, which could enable our customers or competitors to gain access to our source code and distribute it without paying any license fee to us. Key components of both our real-time and on-demand products utilize open source software on Linux platforms. Some open source software, especially that provided under the GNU Public License, is provided pursuant to licenses that limit the restrictions that may be placed on the distribution and copying of the provided code. Thus, it is possible that customers or competitors could copy our software and freely distribute it. This could substantially impact our business and our ability to protect our products and future business. We incurred net losses in the past and may incur further losses in the future. We incurred net losses of $1.0, $14.5, $12.2, $9.3 and $7.7 million in fiscal years ended June 30, 2010, 2009, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Our $14.5 million net loss in fiscal 2009 included a one-time $17.1 million non-cash impairment of intangibles. As of June 30, 2010, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $173.0 million. We may incur additional net losses in the future. Future issuances or repurchases of our equity, or transfers of our equity by third parties, may impair our future ability to use a substantial amount of our existing net operating loss carryforwards. Future transactions and the timing of such transactions could cause an additional ownership change for income tax purposes under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. Such transactions may include, but are not limited to, additional repurchases or issuances of common stock, or acquisitions or sales of shares of Concurrent stock by certain holders of our shares, including persons who have held, currently hold or may accumulate in the future five percent or more of our outstanding common stock for their own account. Many of these transactions are beyond our control. If an additional ownership change were to occur for purposes of Section 382, we would be required to calculate a new annual restriction on the use of our net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income, but we would be able to continue to carry forward unus ed amounts from prior years. We rely on a combination of contracts and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our proprietary rights in our technology. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could be harmed or we could be required to incur expenses to enforce our rights. Our business could also be adversely affected if we are found to be infringing on the intellectual property of others. We typically enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants, customers and vendors, in an effort to control access to and distribution of our proprietary information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology without authorization. The steps we take may not prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property, and the agreements we enter into may not be enforceable. In addition, effective copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries. Other companies, such as Acacia Technologies Group, Personalized Media Communication L.L.C., Vtran Media Technologies, the SCO Group, and our competitors, may currently own or obtain patents or other proprietary rights that might prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use or sell our products. Further, we have indemnification obligations with numerous customers that could require us to become involved in intellectual property litigation. As a result, we may be found to be infringing on the intellectual property rights of others. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us or against a customer to which we have an indemnification obligation, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. 15 Table of Contents Any litigation or claims brought against us, whether or not valid, could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. Intellectual property litigation or claims brought against us could force us to do one or more of the following: · cease selling, incorporating or using products or services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; · obtain a license from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all; and · redesign products or services that incorporate the disputed technology. If we are forced to take any of the foregoing actions, we could face substantial costs and our business could be seriously harmed. Although we carry general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. In addition, we may initiate claims or litigation against third parties in the future for infringement of our proprietary rights or to determine the scope and validity of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of competitors. These claims could result in costly litigation and the diversion of our technical and management personnel and there can be no guarantee of success in any such action. As a result, our operating results could suffer and our financial condition could be harmed. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive, and we may be unable to compete successfully against our current and future competitors, which would adversely affect our business. The markets for video solutions and real-time products are extremely competitive. Our primary on-demand competitor, SeaChange International, Inc., is well funded and has been successful in the VOD market. Other competitors are divisions of larger public companies with an established presence in the industry. Further, as we expand our product offerings to additional delivery devices, we encounter a different set of competitors for each new product line. This intense competition has negatively impacted our VOD revenues and may severely impact our success and ability to earn additional revenue through expanding our video solutions offerings. Although we currently enjoy a leadership position in providing media data and advertising solutions and services, this is also a very competitive field. We could be displaced by some competitors or internally-developed solutions. The market for our real-time products is ever changing. Although we currently enjoy a leadership position in high-performance, highly deterministic computing solutions, a number of well-funded competitors such as Novell, Oracle, IBM, and Red Hat, among others, could displace us. As demand shifts, we may be unable to adequately respond to customer demands or technology changes. There may be new entrants into the real-time market with better, more appropriate products. We may also experience decreasing prices for our products and services due to competition, the purchasing leverage of our customers and other factors. A list of the competitors we face in both of our markets and a categorization of our competitors is included under the Competition heading in the Business section in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2010. The introduction of broadband Internet video services for televisions may gain traction, thus replacing current VOD services and causing a negative impact on Concurrent’s on-demand revenue. We believe a number of well-funded companies such as Amazon, Apple, Blockbuster, Google, Netflix, and Yahoo are capable of delivering broadband Internet video services for home television viewing. If these products are developed, successfully deployed and embraced by consumers, our customers may discontinue purchases of our video products. We may experience competitive pricing pressure for our products and services, which may impair our revenue growth and our ability to achieve profitability. 16 Table of Contents We may experience decreasing prices for our products and services due to competition, the purchasing leverage of our customers and other factors. If we are required to decrease prices, our results of operations will be adversely affected. We may reduce prices in the future to respond to competition and to generate increased sales volume. We have a significant base of deployed video solutions products that our customers, over time, may decide to swap for products from other companies. Although the VOD market is evolving in the view of most subscribers, a significant number of our on-demand products have been deployed for several years and may be replaced with newer products. When our customers evaluate replacing those older products, they may choose to try a different vendor. If that were to occur, we would lose future revenue opportunities from expansion as well as maintenance. A loss of our government contracts and/or orders would have a material adverse effect on our business. We derive a significant portion of our real-time revenues from the supply of systems under government contracts and/or orders. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, we recorded $13.6 million in sales to U.S. government prime contractors and agencies of the U.S. government, up $4.2 million, or 45% from the year ended June 30, 2009. These sales represent approximately 23% and 13% of our total sales in the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Government business is subject to many risks, such as delays in funding, reduction or modification of contracts or subcontracts, changes in governmental policies or regulations which could significantly increase the cost of doing business with the government and the imposition of budgetary constraints. Many governments are struggling to balance their budgets which could further reduce funding for contracts. A loss of government contract revenues would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to develop and market new products and product enhancements in a timely manner, our business could be adversely affected. Our future success is dependent on our development and marketing of additional products that achieve market acceptance and enhance our current products. In addition, services, products or technologies developed by others may render one or more of our products or technologies uncompetitive, unmarketable or obsolete. Our future success will depend on our ability to continue to enhance our existing products, including development of new applications for our technology, and to develop and introduce new products to meet and adapt to changing customer requirements and emerging technologies. Our failure to respond to rapidly changing technologies could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our efforts to trim expenses in research and development could have the unintended c onsequence of impacting our delivery of new products or enhancements to existing products. Our inability to develop, on a timely basis, new products or enhancements to existing products, or the failure of such new products or enhancements to achieve market acceptance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in pursuing any new products or enhancements to existing products. In some cases, we rely on a limited number of suppliers, which entails several risks, including the possibility of defective parts, a shortage of components, an increase in component costs, and reduced control over delivery schedules. We sometimes purchase product components from a single supplier in order to obtain the required technology and the most favorable price and delivery terms. These components include systems, system boards, memory, CPUs, mother boards, storage devices, software, and chassis. We purchase product components from the following single suppliers: Dell, Xyratex, Qlogic, STEC, Curtis-Wright, Oracle, Kardios, KMA Systems, Supermicro, GE Fanuc, Data Device Corporation, Myricom, Pentair, and North Atlantic Industries. In most cases, comparable products are available from other sources but would require significant reengineering to conform to our system specifications. Single-source suppliers accounting for 10% or more of these purchases were Xyratex (20%) and Dell (19%) for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2 010. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, Xyratex (22%), Dell (16%) and Bell Micro Products (16%) were the only suppliers that accounted for more than 10% of Concurrent’s purchases. 17 Table of Contents Our reliance on single suppliers entails a number of risks, including the possibility of defective parts, a shortage of components, increase in components costs, and reduced control over delivery schedules. Any of these events could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We estimate that a lead-time of 16-24 weeks may be necessary to switch to an alternative supplier of certain custom application specific integrated circuit and printed circuit assemblies. A change in the supplier of these components, without the appropriate lead-time, could result in a material delay in shipments by us of certain products. Where alternative sources are available, qualification of the alternative suppliers and establishment of reliable supplies of components from such sources may also result in delays. Shipping delays may also result in a delay in revenue recognition, possibly outside the fiscal year period originally planned, and, as a result, may adversely affect our financial results for that particular period. We provide maintenance for a large number of legacy systems owned by customers in the real-time market. A large percentage of the services we provide is to customers who run our legacy hardware and systems. Over time, these systems will be replaced and the customers may not choose to purchase replacement systems from us. In such a case, our service revenue will be materially negatively impacted. Sales by our international subsidiaries accounted for approximately 23%, 23% and 25% of our revenue in fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Accordingly, our business is susceptible to numerous risks associated with international operations. Further, sales by our U.S. operation to international customers range from 8% to 12% of total revenue per year. We are subject to a number of risks associated with international business activities that could increase our costs, lengthen our sales cycle and require significant management attention. These risks include: · compliance with, and unexpected changes in, regulatory requirements resulting in unanticipated costs and delays; · difficulties in compliance with export and re-export regulations governing U.S. goods and goods from our international subsidiaries; · lack of availability of trained personnel in international locations; · tariffs, export controls and other trade barriers; · longer accounts receivable payment cycles than in the United States; · potential difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables in some foreign legal systems; · potential difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in certain foreign countries; · potentially adverse tax consequences, including restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; · the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws; · general economic and political conditions in international markets; and · currency exchange rate fluctuations. Product failures or interruptions could cause delays in shipments, require design modifications or field replacement, which may have a negative impact on our business and damage our reputation and customer relationships. Product failures may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Despite our own testing and testing by current and potential customers, all errors or failures may not be found in our products prior to being deployed or, if discovered, successfully corrected in a timely manner. These errors or failures could cause delays in product introductions and shipments or require design modifications that could adversely affect our competitive position. Further, some errors may not be detected until the systems are deployed. In such a case, we may have to undertake substantial field replacement programs to correct the problem. Our reputation may also suffer if our customers view our products as unreliable, whether based on actual or perceived errors or failures in our pr oducts. 18 Table of Contents In addition, a defect, error or performance problem with our video products could cause our customers’ offerings to fail for a period of time or be degraded. Any such failure would cause customer service and public relations problems for our customers. As a result, we could experience delayed or lost revenue due to adverse customer reaction, negative publicity regarding us and our products and services and claims for substantial damages against us, regardless of our responsibility for such failure. Any claim could be expensive and require us to spend a significant amount of resources. In circumstances where third party technology incorporated with or in our systems includes a defect, error or performance problem or fails for any reason, we may have to replace such third party technology a t our expense and be responsible to our customers for their corresponding claims. Such tasks could be expensive and could require us to spend a significant amount of resources. Trends in our business may cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate; therefore, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not necessarily be meaningful. We have experienced significant variations in the revenue, expenses and operating results from quarter to quarter in our business, and it is likely that these variations will continue. We believe that fluctuations in the number of orders for our products being placed from quarter to quarter are principally attributable to the buying patterns and budgeting cycles of our customers. In addition, sales cycles associated with the purchase of many of our producers are typically lengthy and orders are often not finalized until the end of a quarter. As a result, our results of operations have fluctuated in the past and will likely continue to fluctuate in accordance with this purchasing activity. Therefore, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not necessarily be meaningful. 160;In addition, because these factors are difficult for us to forecast, our business, financial condition and results of operations for one quarter or a series of quarters may be adversely affected and below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could result in material declines of our stock price. Our business may be adversely affected if we fail to retain our current key personnel, many of whom would be difficult to replace, or fail to attract additional qualified personnel. Our future performance depends on the continued service of our senior management and our engineering, sales and marketing and manufacturing personnel. Competition for qualified personnel is intense, and we may fail to retain our new key employees or to attract or retain other highly qualified personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of our personnel could seriously impact our business. Our future success also depends on our continuing ability to attract, hire, train and retain highly skilled managerial, technical, sales, marketing and customer support personnel. In addition, new employees frequently require extensive training before they achieve desired levels of productivity. We do not carry key person life insurance on any of our employees. We could be exposed to legal liability if our products were used to violate copyright laws. Our products enable recording, storing, and delivering video over commercial broadband networks. Thus, our customers could use our products without first obtaining permission from content owners to record and deliver copyrighted video. In such a situation, we could face liability in that our products enabled or assisted in breaching copyright laws. As our products age, we may not be able to purchase necessary parts to support legacy systems currently deployed or to be deployed. With the passage of time, suppliers of essential parts may stop producing these parts. In such cases, we may be required to redesign our products to accommodate the obsolescence. If that occurs, we will have to spend considerable effort in the redesign and, in some cases, may be forced to have the redesigned products requalified. Requalification may take several months, thereby delaying expected revenue. Our facilities, especially our Pompano Beach, Florida facility, could be subject to severe weather that could shut down those facilities and halt production. 19 Table of Contents All of our facilities are, from time to time, subject to severe weather that could result in a temporary shut-down of the impacted facility. However, our Pompano Beach, Florida facility is located in south Florida where there have been a number of hurricanes in recent years. A hurricane could shut-down the Pompano Beach facility for extended periods thereby making it impossible for us to manufacture and ship products since all of our products are shipped out of that facility. Further, an extended shut-down could slow the release of software products for our real-time business since almost all the developers for those products are located at that facility. We may engage in future acquisitions that dilute the ownership interest of our stockholders, cause us to incur debt or assume contingent liabilities or present other challenges, such as integration issues, for our business, which if not successfully resolved would adversely affect our business. As part of our business strategy, we review acquisition prospects that would complement our current product offerings, enhance our technical capabilities or otherwise offer growth opportunities. We periodically review investments in new businesses, and we may acquire businesses, products or technologies in the future. In the event of any future acquisitions, we could issue equity securities that would dilute current stockholders’ percentage ownership, incur substantial debt, or assume contingent liabilities. These actions could materially adversely affect our operating results. Acquisitions also entail numerous risks, including: · difficulties in the assimilation of acquired operations, technologies or services; · unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition; · diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; · adverse effects on existing business relationships; · risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and · potential loss of key employees of acquired companies. We cannot assure that we will be able to successfully integrate any business, products, technologies or personnel that we might acquire in the future. Our failure to do so could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Industries The success of our business is dependent upon the success of our three-screen strategy and the growth in the video delivery market, which may not grow as we expect. Any failure by the market to accept and adopt video delivery in a way that aligns with our stated strategy will have a material adverse effect on our business. We believe that the business model that will support widespread multi-screen adoption of video delivery is still evolving. The potential size of the market and timing of market development is uncertain. We believe our success in these new markets will also depend on the adoption of an advertising based business model by key industry participants and our ability to offer the mix of products that allow these participants to introduce offerings which will support that model. Our business is subject to governmental regulation. Any finding that we have been or are currently in noncompliance with such laws could result in, among other things, governmental penalties or class action lawsuits. Further, changes in existing laws or new laws may adversely affect our business. We are subject to various international, U.S. federal, state and local laws affecting our on-demand and real-time product lines. The television industry is subject to extensive regulation in the United States and other countries. Our on-demand revenue is dependent upon the continued growth of the digital television industry in the United States and internationally. Broadband companies are subject to extensive government regulation by the FCC and other federal and state regulatory agencies. Recently, the FCC has attempted to expand its regulation of the cable industry pursuant to the 1984 Cable Act, which amended the Communications Act of 1934. The 1984 Cable Act established policies in the areas of ownership, channel usage, franchise provisions and renewals, subscriber rates and privacy, obscen ity and lockboxes, unauthorized reception of services, equal employment opportunity, and pole attachments. The 1984 Cable Act also defined jurisdictional boundaries among federal, state and local authorities for regulating cable television systems which, among other provisions, allow for expanded regulatory powers when domestic cable penetration exceeds a threshold of 70% of U.S. households. Additional regulations could have the effect of limiting capital expenditures by broadband companies and thus could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we were found to be, or believed to be non-compliant with privacy laws, we could face substantial exposure to government fines or privacy litigation. This risk is especially important for our Media Data and Advertising Solutions since these products monitor set-top-box functions that could be impacted by privacy law protections. Additionally, regulations could have the effect of limiting capital expenditures by broadband companies and thus could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The enactment by federal, state or international governments of new laws or regulations could adversely affect our broadband customers, and thereby materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our real-time revenue is also subject to strict government regulation as the result of the government work we do. The regulations deal with security clearances, privacy, employment practices, pricing, purchasing, intellectual property and integrity. If we were ever found in violation or if out of tolerance, our production and resultant revenues could be halted or significantly delayed. 20 Table of Contents We may be subject to liability if private information supplied to our customers, including broadband companies, is misused. Our video solutions allow broadband companies to collect and store data that many viewers may consider confidential. Unauthorized access or use of this information could result in liability to our customers, and potentially us, and might deter potential on-demand viewers. We have no control over the policy of our customers with respect to the access to this data and the release of this data to third parties. We cannot guarantee that our products and services will keep pace with technological developments and emerging industry standards, address the changing needs of our customers or achieve market acceptance, any of which could materially adversely affect our business. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and new product introductions and enhancements. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in enhancing our current and planned video solutions and real-time products or developing, manufacturing and marketing new products that satisfy customer needs or achieve market acceptance. In addition, services, products or technologies developed by others may render one or more of our products or technologies uncompetitive, unmarketable or obsolete. Future technological advances in the real-time, television and video industries may result in the availability of new products and services that could compete with our solutions or reduce the cost of existing products or services. Our future s uccess will depend on our ability to continue to enhance our existing products, including development of new applications for our technology, and to develop and introduce new products to meet and adapt to changing customer requirements and emerging technologies. Further, announcements of currently planned or other new product offerings by our competitors may cause customers to defer purchase decisions or to fail to purchase our existing solutions. Our failure to respond to rapidly changing technologies could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Other Risks We have implemented certain anti-takeover provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. Provisions of Delaware law and our restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws, and rights plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. We are subject to certain Delaware anti-takeover laws regulating corporate takeovers. These anti-takeover laws prevent a Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination involving a merger or sale of more than 10% of our assets with any stockholder, including affiliates and associates of the stockholder, who owns 15% or more of the outstanding voting stock, for three years following the date that the stockholder acquired 15% or more of the corporation’s stock except under limited circumstances. 21 Table of Contents There are provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws that also may delay, deter or impede hostile takeovers or changes of control. In addition, we have a rights plan, also known as a poison pill. The rights plan has the potential effect of significantly diluting the ownership interest in us of any person that acquires beneficial ownership of 15% or more of our common stock or commences a tender offer that would result in a person or group owning 15% or more of our common stock. Our stock price has been volatile in the past and may be volatile in the future. Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Market. For the twelve months ended June 30, 2010, the high and low prices reported on the NASDAQ Global Market were $6.22 and $3.38, respectively. Further, as of August 27, 2010, the closing price as reported on the NASDAQ Global Market was $5.00. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in the future in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control, including, among others: · variations in our quarterly operating results; · changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance; · the development of the on-demand market in general; · changes in market valuations of similar companies; · announcement by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · loss of a major customer or failure to complete significant transactions; and · additions or departures of key personnel. In addition, in recent years the stock market in general, and the NASDAQ Global Market and the market for technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. In some cases, these fluctuations have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These market and industry factors may materially and adversely affect our stock price, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, class action litigation often has been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of those companies’ common stock. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Litigation is often expensive and diverts management’s attention and resources, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A sustained period of low stock price brings with it a risk that our stock will not comply with the minimum trading-price rules of the NASDAQ Global Market, and may be subject to delisting, thus significantly impacting the liquidity of our stock and our access to public capital. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 