Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following are some of the risk factors we face. You should carefully consider each of the following risk factors and all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These risks are not the only ones we face. Our business operations could also be impaired by additional risks and uncertainties that, at present, are not known to us, or that, at present, are considered immaterial. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If that happens, the trading prices of our common stock and other securities we may issue in the future could decline significantly. The risk factors below contain forward-looking statements regarding Concurrent. Actual results could differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. See “Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” on page 45. Risks Related to Our Business We incurred net losses in the past and may incur further losses in the future. We incurred net losses of $12.2, $9.3, $7.7 and $5.7 million in fiscal years ended June 30, 2007, 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. Our net income for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 was $265,000 and included a gain of $3.3 million from the settlement of cases with Vicor and C-COR. As of June 30, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $158.0 million. We may incur additional net losses in the future. A significant portion of our revenue has been, and is expected to continue to be, concentrated in a small number of customers. If we are unsuccessful in maintaining and expanding relationships with these customers or lose any of these customers, our business will be adversely affected. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, Cox and Time Warner accounted for approximately 12% and 10% of our revenues, respectively. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007, Cox, Comcast and Time Warner accounted for approximately 19%, 11% and 8%, respectively, of our revenues. If we are unsuccessful in maintaining and expanding key relationships with these and other existing customers, our business will be materially adversely affected. Further, if we are unsuccessful in establishing relationships with other large companies or experience problems in any of our systems, our ability to attract new customers and sell additional products to existing customers will be materially adversely affected. Our VOD customers sometimes swap sites or purchase sites from competitors. If we already have products deployed at a swapped site, the new owner may replace our products or discontinue maintenance with respect to such site. Alternatively, forecasted revenues could be negatively impacted because the new owner of the site may not need to purchase products from us due to their existing agreement with us. 13 Table of Contents Due to our limited customer base and the relative size of each customer compared to Concurrent, our customers may make unreasonable and extensive demands upon our business. Such demands may include contractual service and product obligations on unfavorable terms including decreased pricing. In addition, our failure to adequately perform under these contracts could result in liquidated damages. The payment of any liquidated damages or failure to meet our customers’ expectations could substantially harm our future business prospects. We typically do not have written agreements that require customers to purchase fixed minimum quantities of our products. Our sales to specific customers tend to, and are expected to continue to, vary from year-to-year, depending on such customers’ budgets for capital expenditures and new product introductions. We utilize open source software which could enable our customers or competitors to gain access to our source code and distribute it without paying any license fee to Concurrent. Key components of both our real-time and on-demand products utilize open source software on Linux platforms. Some open source software, especially that provided under the GNU Public License, is provided pursuant to licenses that limit the restrictions that may be placed on the distribution and copying of the provided code. Thus, it is possible that customers or competitors could copy our software and freely distribute it. This could substantially impact our business and the ability to protect future business. We rely on a combination of contracts and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our proprietary rights in our technology. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could be harmed or we could be required to incur expenses to enforce our rights. Our business also could be adversely affected if we are found to infringe on the intellectual property of others. We typically enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants, customers and vendors, in an effort to control access to and distribution of our proprietary information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology without authorization. The steps we take may not prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property, and the agreements we enter into may not be enforceable. In addition, effective copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries. Other companies, such as Acacia Technologies Group, USA Video Inc., Personalized Media Communication L.L.C., Vtran Media Technologies, the SCO Group, and our competitors, may currently own or obtain patents or other proprietary rights that might prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use or sell our products. Further, we have indemnification obligations with numerous customers that could require us to become involved in intellectual property litigation. As a result, we may be found to infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us or against a customer to which we have an indemnification obligation, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Any litigation or claims, whether or not valid, could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. Intellectual property litigation or claims could force us to do one or more of the following: · cease selling, incorporating or using products or services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; · obtain a license from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all; and · redesign products or services that incorporate the disputed technology. If we are forced to take any of the foregoing actions, we could face substantial costs and our business could be seriously harmed. Although we carry general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. 14 Table of Contents We may initiate claims or litigation against third parties in the future for infringement of our proprietary rights or to determine the scope and validity of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of competitors. These claims could result in costly litigation and the diversion of our technical and management personnel. As a result, our operating results could suffer and our financial condition could be harmed. In the future, we may need to raise additional capital. This capital may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, if and when needed, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products and services, take advantage of future opportunities, grow our business or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements. Our working capital declined from $43.5 million on June 30, 2002 to $17.4 million on June 30, 2006 and was $25.7 million on June 30, 2008, after giving effect to a private placement in May of 2007 that generated net proceeds of approximately $12.6 million. If our revenue does not increase and stabilize in future periods, we will continue to use cash from operating activities, which will cause working capital to further decline. If these losses continue, we may be forced to take extreme measures to continue the business, such as raising additional funds through an offering of stock at discounted prices, employee reductions, re-capitalization or reorganization transactions at undesirable prices, incurring significant debt at above market rates, or seeking bankruptcy protection. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive, and we may be unable to compete successfully against our current and future competitors, which would adversely affect our business. The markets for on-demand and real-time products are extremely competitive. Our primary on-demand competitor, SeaChange International, is well funded and has been very successful in the VOD market. Additionally, some smaller competitors have been acquired by larger public companies with experience in the industry. This intense competition has negatively impacted our VOD revenues and may severely impact our success and ability to expand our on-demand deployments. The market for our real-time products is ever changing. Although we currently enjoy a leadership position, a number of well-funded competitors such as Novell, Oracle, IBM, or Red Hat could seek to displace us. As demand shifts, we may be unable to adequately respond to customer demands or technology changes. There may be new entrants into the real-time market with better, more appropriate products. We may also experience decreasing prices for our products and services due to competition, the purchasing leverage of our customers and other factors. A list of the competitors faced by both of our markets and a categorization of our competitors is included under the Competition heading in the Business section in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2008. We may experience competitive pricing pressure for our products and services, which may impair our revenue growth and our ability to achieve profitability. We may experience decreasing prices for our products and services due to competition, the purchasing leverage of our customers and other factors. If we are required to decrease prices, our results of operations will be adversely affected. We may reduce prices in the future to respond to competition and to generate increased sales volume. We currently have strategic relationships with Oracle, Alcatel-Lucent, Cisco Systems and Motorola, among others. We may be unsuccessful in maintaining these strategic relationships, or establishing new strategic relationships that may be an important part of future success. In either event, our business could be adversely affected. The success of our business is and will continue to be dependent in part on our ability to maintain existing and enter into new strategic relationships. There can be no assurance that: · such existing or contemplated relationships will be commercially successful; · we will be able to find additional strategic partners; or 15 Table of Contents · we will be able to negotiate acceptable terms with potential strategic partners. We cannot assure you that existing or future strategic partners will not pursue alternative technologies or develop alternative products in addition to or in lieu of our technology, either on their own or in collaboration with others, including our competitors. These alternative technologies or products may be in direct competition with our technologies or products and may significantly erode the benefit of our strategic relationships and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have a significant base of deployed products that our customers, over time, may decide to swap for newer products from other companies with improved functionality. Although the VOD market is evolving in the view of most subscribers, a significant number of our on-demand products have been deployed for several years and may be facing obsolescence. When our customers evaluate replacing those older products, they may choose to try a different vendor. If that were to occur, we would lose future revenue opportunities from expansion as well as maintenance. A loss of our government contracts and/or orders would have a material adverse effect on our business. We derive a significant portion of our real-time revenues from the supply of systems under government contracts and/or orders. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, we recorded $9.3 million in sales to U.S. government prime contractors and agencies of the U.S. government, up $0.4 million, or 4% from the year ended June 30, 2007. These sales represent approximately 13% of our total sales in both the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Government business is subject to many risks, such as delays in funding, reduction or modification of contracts or subcontracts, changes in governmental policies and the imposition of budgetary constraints. A loss of government contract revenues would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to develop and market new products and product enhancements in a timely manner our business could be adversely affected. Our future success is dependent on our development and marketing of additional products that achieve market acceptance and enhance our current products. In addition, services, products or technologies developed by others may render one or more of our products or technologies uncompetitive, unmarketable or obsolete. Our future success will depend on our ability to continue to enhance our existing products, including development of new applications for our technology, and to develop and introduce new products to meet and adapt to changing customer requirements and emerging technologies. Our failure to respond to rapidly changing technologies could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our inability to develop, on a timely basis, new products or enhancements to existing products, or the failure of such new products or enhancements to achieve market acceptance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in pursuing any new products or enhancements to existing products. In some cases, we rely on a limited number of suppliers, which entails several risks, including the possibility of defective parts, a shortage of components, an increase in component costs, and reduced control over delivery schedules. We sometimes purchase product components from a single supplier in order to obtain the required technology and the most favorable price and delivery terms. These components include, for example, systems, system boards, memory, CPUs, mother boards, storage devices, software, and chassis. We purchase product components from the following single suppliers: Dell, Xyratex, Qlogic, STEC, Curtis-Wright, Oracle, Kardios, KMA Systems, Supermicro, GE Fanuc, Data Device Corporation, Myricom, Pentair, and North Atlantic Industries. In most cases, comparable products are available from other sources, but would require significant reengineering to conform to our system specifications. Single-source suppliers accounting for 10% or more of these purchases were Xyratex (25%), Dell (21%) and Bell Micro Products (15%) for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007, Xyratex (23%) and Dell (19%) were the only suppliers that accounted for more than accounted for more than 10% of Concurrent’s purchases. 16 Table of Contents In most cases, comparable products are available from other sources, but would require significant reengineering to conform to our system specifications. Our reliance on single suppliers entails a number of risks, including the possibility of defective parts, a shortage of components, increase in components costs, and reduced control over delivery schedules. Any of these events could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We estimate that a lead-time of 16-24 weeks may be necessary to switch to an alternative supplier of certain custom application specific integrated circuit and printed circuit assemblies. A change in the supplier of these components without the appropriate lead-time could result in a material delay in shipments by us of certain products. Where alternative sources are available, qualification of the alternative suppliers and establishment of reliable supplies of components from such sources may also result in delays. Shipping delays may also result in a delay in revenue recognition, possibly outside the fiscal year period originally planned, and, as a result, may adversely affect our financial results for that particular period. We provide maintenance for a large number of legacy systems owned by customers in the real-time market. A large percentage of the services we provide to customers who run our legacy hardware and systems as these systems age. Over time, these systems will be replaced and the customers may not choose to purchase replacement systems from us. In such a case our service revenue will be materially negatively impacted. International sales accounted for approximately 25%, 26%, 27% and 29% of our revenue in fiscal years 2008, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Accordingly, our business is susceptible to numerous risks associated with international operations. We are subject to a number of risks associated with international business activities that could increase our costs, lengthen our sales cycle and require significant management attention. These risks include: · compliance with, and unexpected changes in, regulatory requirements resulting in unanticipated costs and delays; · difficulties in compliance with export and re-export regulations governing U.S. goods and goods from our international subsidiaries; · lack of availability of trained personnel in international locations; · tariffs, export controls and other trade barriers; · longer accounts receivable payment cycles than in the United States; · potential difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables in some foreign legal systems; · potential difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in certain foreign countries; · potentially adverse tax consequences, including restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; · the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws; · general economic conditions in international markets; and · currency exchange rate fluctuations. System errors, failures, or interruptions could cause delays in shipments, require design modifications or field replacement which may have a negative impact on our business and damage our reputation and customer relationships. System errors or failures may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Despite our testing and testing by current and potential customers, all errors or failures may not be found in our products or, if discovered, successfully corrected in a timely manner. These errors or failures could cause delays in product introductions and shipments or require design modifications that could adversely affect our competitive position. Further, some errors may not be detected until the systems are deployed. In such a case, we may have to undertake substantial field replacement programs to correct the problem. Our reputation may also suffer if our customers view our products as unreliable, whether based on actual or perceived errors or failures in our products. 17 Table of Contents Further, a defect, error or performance problem with our on-demand systems could cause our customers’ VOD offerings to fail for a period of time or be degraded. Any such failure would cause customer service and public relations problems for our customers. As a result, any failure of our customers’ systems caused by our technology, including the failure of third party technology incorporated therein or therewith, could result in delayed or lost revenue due to adverse customer reaction, negative publicity regarding us and our products and services and claims for substantial damages against us, regardless of our responsibility for such failure. Any claim could be expensive and require us to spend a significant amount of resources. In circumstances where third party technology incorporated with or in our systems includes a defect, error or performance problem or fails for any reason, we may have to replace such third party technology at our expense and be responsible to our customers for their corresponding claims. Such tasks could be expensive and could require us to spend a significant amount of resources. Trends in our business may cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate; therefore, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not necessarily be meaningful. We have experienced significant variations in the revenue, expenses and operating results from quarter to quarter in our business, and it is possible that these variations will continue. We believe that fluctuations in the number of orders for our products being placed from quarter to quarter are principally attributable to the buying patterns and budgeting cycles of our customers. In addition, sales cycles associated with the purchase of many of our producers are typically lengthy and orders are often not finalized until the end of a quarter. As a result, our results of operations have in the past and will possibly continue to fluctuate in accordance with this purchasing activity. Therefore, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not necessarily be meaningful. In addition, because these factors are difficult for us to forecast, our business, financial condition and results of operations for one quarter or a series of quarters may be adversely affected and below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could result in material declines of our stock price. The VOD opportunities beyond the North American cable market, such as VOD over telco networks and international cable networks markets may not develop or may not be substantial to Concurrent. In recent years North American and International markets in the deployment of video over telco networks and international cable networks have been slow to develop. If there is limited adoption of VOD, further deployment delays or if we fail to participate in these new markets, we may not be able to broaden our customer base and expand revenues. We have little commercial experience in these markets and cannot assure that we can be successful. Our failure to do so could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The introduction of broadband internet VOD services for televisions may gain traction, thus replacing current VOD services and having a negative impact on Concurrent’s on-demand revenue. A number of well-funded companies such as Google, Yahoo, and Apple have been discussing broadband Internet VOD services for home television viewing. If these products are developed they may be more cost effective than our VOD solutions, which could result in our customers discontinuing purchases of our on-demand products. Our business may be adversely affected if we fail to retain our current key personnel, many of whom would be difficult to replace, or fail to attract additional qualified personnel. Our future performance depends on the continued service of our senior management and our engineering, sales and marketing and manufacturing personnel. Competition for qualified personnel is intense, and we may fail to retain our new key employees or to attract or retain other highly qualified personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel could seriously impact our business. Our future success also depends on our continuing ability to attract, hire, train and retain highly skilled managerial, technical, sales, marketing and customer support personnel. In addition, new employees frequently require extensive training before they achieve desired levels of productivity. We do not carry key person life insurance on any of our employees. 18 Table of Contents As our products age, we may not be able to purchase necessary parts to support legacy systems deployed or to be deployed. With the passage of time, suppliers of essential parts may stop producing these parts. In such cases, we may be required to redesign our products to accommodate the obsolescence. If that occurs, we will have to spend considerable effort in the redesign and, in some cases, may be forced to have the redesigned products requalified. Requalification may take several months, thereby delaying expected revenue. Our facilities, especially our Pompano Beach, Florida facility, could be subject to severe weather that could shut down those facilities and halt production. All of our facilities are, from time to time, subject to severe weather that could result in a temporary shut-down of the impacted facility. However, our Pompano Beach, Florida facility is located in south Florida where there have been a number of hurricanes in recent years. A hurricane could shut-down the Pompano Beach facility for extended periods thereby making it impossible for us to manufacture and ship products since all of our products are shipped out of those facilities. Further, an extended shut-down could slow the release of software products for our real-time business since almost all the developers for those products are located at those facilities. We may engage in future acquisitions that dilute the ownership interest of our stockholders, cause us to incur debt or assume contingent liabilities or present other challenges, such as integration issues, for our business, which if not successfully resolved would adversely affect our business. As part of our business strategy, we review acquisition prospects that would compliment our current product offerings, enhance our technical capabilities or otherwise offer growth opportunities. We periodically review investments in new businesses, and we may acquire businesses, products or technologies in the future. In the event of any future acquisitions, we could issue equity securities that would dilute current stockholders’ percentage ownership, incur substantial debt, or assume contingent liabilities. These actions could materially adversely affect our operating results. Acquisitions also entail numerous risks, including: · difficulties in the assimilation of acquired operations, technologies or services; · unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition; · diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; · adverse effects on existing business relationships; · risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and · potential loss of key employees of acquired companies. We cannot assure that we will be able to successfully integrate any business, products, technologies or personnel that we might acquire in the future. Our failure to do so could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Industries The success of our business is dependent upon the growth of the digital video market, which may not grow as we expect. Any failure by the market to accept digital video technology will have a material adverse effect on our business. VOD is still an evolving technology, and we cannot assure you that it will attract widespread demand or market acceptance. Further, the potential size of the VOD market and the timing of our development are uncertain. Our success in the VOD market will depend upon the commercialization and broad acceptance of VOD by residential subscribers and other industry participants, including broadband companies, content providers, set-top box manufacturers, and educational institutions. The future growth of our on-demand business will depend on the pace of the installation of interactive digital cable and digital set-top-boxes, the rate at which broadband companies deploy digital infrastructure, the rate at which digital video technology expands to additional market segments, and the rate that the technology is adopted by consumers. 19 Table of Contents The success of our business is dependent on the availability of, and the distribution windows for, movies, programs and other content. If sufficient VOD content is not available on a timely basis, our on-demand business will be adversely affected. The success of VOD will largely be dependent on the availability of a wide variety and substantial number of movies, subscription based content from providers such as HBO, Showtime, and Starz Encore, specialty programs and other material, which we refer to as content, in digital format. We do not provide digital VOD content. Therefore, the future success of our on-demand business is dependent in part on content providers, such as traditional media and entertainment companies, providing significant content for VOD. Further, we are dependent in part on other third parties to convert existing analog content into digital content so that it may be delivered via VOD. In addition, we believe that the ultimate success of VOD will depend in part on the timing of the VOD distribution window. The distribution window is the time period during which different mediums, such as home movie rental businesses, receive and have exclusive rights to motion picture releases. Currently, video rental businesses have an advantage of receiving motion picture releases on an exclusive basis before most other forms of non-theatrical movie distribution, such as pay-per-view, premium television, VOD, basic cable and network syndicated television. The length of the exclusive distribution window for movie rental businesses varies, typically ranging from 3 to 90 days for domestic video stores. Thereafter, movies are made sequentially available to various television distribution channels. We believe the success of VOD will depend in part on movies being available for VOD distribution either simultaneously with, or shortly after, they are available for video rental distribution. The order, length and exclusivity of each window for each distribution channel are determined solely by the studio releasing the movie. Given the size of the home video rental industry, the studios have a significant interest in maintaining that market. We cannot assure you that favorable changes, if any, will be made relating to the length and exclusivity of the video rental and television distribution windows. We believe all of the major studios have entered into agreements with certain broadband companies and content aggregators to provide digital movies for distribution through VOD. However, these agreements are subject to change. If studios fail to reach agreements regarding content or cancel existing agreements, our customers could delay or cancel on-demand system orders, which would adversely affect our on-demand business. The deployment of on-demand by broadband companies may be delayed due to limited bandwidth or other technology initiatives that could require broadband companies to further upgrade their networks. Bandwidth is a limited resource. On-demand deployments may be delayed as operators focus on new initiatives that require incremental bandwidth such as high definition television, increased high-speed data speed, voice over internet protocol, interactive television, gaming and other evolving applications. These initiatives compete for the broadband companies’ network bandwidth and may require the broadband companies to increase their bandwidth capabilities by further upgrading their networks and therefore delaying on-demand related spending which could adversely affect our on-demand business. Our business is subject to governmental regulation. Any finding that we have been or are in noncompliance with such laws could result in, among other things, governmental penalties or class action lawsuits. Further, changes in existing laws or new laws may adversely affect our business. We are subject to various international, U.S. federal, state and local laws affecting our on-demand and real-time product lines. The television industry is subject to extensive regulation in the United States and other countries. Our on-demand revenue is dependent upon the continued growth of the digital television industry in the United States and internationally. Broadband companies are subject to extensive government regulation by the Federal Communications Commission and other federal and state regulatory agencies. Recently, the FCC has attempted to expand its regulation of the cable industry pursuant to the Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984, which amended the Communications Act of 1934. The 1984 Cable Act established policies in the areas of ownership, channel usage, franchise provisions and renewals, subscriber rates and privacy, obscenity and lockboxes, unauthorized reception of services, equal employment opportunity, and pole attachments. The law also defined jurisdictional boundaries among federal, state and local authorities for regulating cable television systems which, among other provisions, allow for expanded regulatory powers when domestic cable penetration exceeds a threshold of 70%. Additional regulations could have the effect of limiting capital expenditures by broadband companies and thus could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we were found to be, or believed to be non-compliant with privacy laws, we could face substantial exposure to government fines or privacy litigation. This risk is especially important for our Everstream products since these products, current and future, monitor set-top-box functions that could be impacted by privacy law protections. Additionally, regulations could have the effect of limiting capital expenditures by broadband companies and thus could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The enactment by federal, state or international governments of new laws or regulations could adversely affect our broadband customers, and thereby materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our real-time revenue is also subject to strict government regulation as the result of the government work we do. The regulations deal with security clearances, privacy, employment practices, pricing, purchasing, intellectual property and integrity. If we were ever found in violation or if out of tolerance, our production and resultant revenues could be halted or significantly delayed. 20 Table of Contents We may be subject to liability if private information supplied to our customers, including broadband companies, is misused. Our on-demand systems allow broadband companies to collect and store video preferences and other data that many viewers may consider confidential. Unauthorized access or use of this information could result in liability to our customers, and potentially us, and might deter potential on-demand viewers. We have no control over the policy of our customers with respect to the access to this data and the release of this data to third parties. We cannot assure you that our products and services will keep pace with technological developments and emerging industry standards, address the changing needs of our customers or achieve market acceptance, any of which could materially adversely affect our business. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and new product introductions and enhancements. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in enhancing our on-demand and real-time products or developing, manufacturing and marketing new products that satisfy customer needs or achieve market acceptance. In addition, services, products or technologies developed by others may render one or more of our products or technologies uncompetitive, unmarketable or obsolete. Future technological advances in the real-time, television and video industries may result in the availability of new products and services that could compete with our solutions or reduce the cost of existing products or services. Our future success will depend on our ability to continue to enhance our existing products, including development of new applications for our technology, and to develop and introduce new products to meet and adapt to changing customer requirements and emerging technologies. Further, announcements of currently planned or other new product offerings by our competitors may cause customers to defer purchase decisions or to fail to purchase our existing solutions. Our failure to respond to rapidly changing technologies could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Other Risks We have implemented certain anti-takeover provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. Provisions of Delaware law and our restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws, and rights plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. We are subject to certain Delaware anti-takeover laws regulating corporate takeovers. These anti-takeover laws prevent a Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination involving a merger or sale of more than 10% of our assets with any stockholder, including affiliates and associates of the stockholder, who owns 15% or more of the outstanding voting stock, for three years following the date that the stockholder acquired 15% or more of the corporation’s stock except under limited circumstances. 21 Table of Contents There are provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws that also may delay, deter or impede hostile takeovers or changes of control. In addition, we have a rights plan, also known as a poison pill. The rights plan has the potential effect of significantly diluting the ownership interest in us of any person that acquires beneficial ownership of 15% or more of our common stock or commences a tender offer that would result in a person or group owning 15% or more of our common stock. Uncertainties in the domestic and global economies may reduce demand for our products and services. Another factor that may negatively affect our operating results is the current uncertain condition of the domestic and global economy. The current uncertainty in economic conditions in many of our markets may have an affect on demand for our products and render budgeting and forecasting difficult. The difficulty in forecasting demand increases the difficulty in anticipating our inventory requirements, which may cause us to over-produce finished goods, resulting in inventory write-offs, or under-produce finished goods, affecting our ability to meet customer requirements. Our operating results may vary based on changes in our customers’ capital expenditures caused by uncertain conditions in the domestic and global economy. We sell our solutions primarily to large organizations whose businesses fluctuate with general economic and business conditions. As a result, decreased demand for our solutions and services caused by a weakening global economy may cause a decline in our revenue. Historically, economic downturns have resulted in overall reductions in corporate spending. In the future, potential customers may decide to reduce their budgets for capital expenditures by deferring or reconsidering product purchases, which would negatively impact our operating results. Our stock price has been volatile in the past and may be volatile in the future. Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Market. For the twelve months ended June 30, 2008, the high and low prices reported on the NASDAQ Global Market were $18.80 and $5.90, respectively. Further, as of August 25, 2008, the price as reported on the NASDAQ Global Market was $6.86. Stock prices reflect the one-for-ten reverse stock split, made effective on July 9, 2008. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in the future in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control, including, among others: · variations in our quarterly operating results; · changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance; · the development of the on-demand market in general; · changes in market valuations of similar companies; · announcement by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · loss of a major customer or failure to complete significant transactions; and · additions or departures of key personnel. In addition, in recent years the stock market in general, and the NASDAQ Global Market and the market for technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. In some cases, these fluctuations have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These market and industry factors may materially and adversely affect our stock price, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, class action litigation often has been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of those companies’ common stock. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Litigation is often expensive and diverts management’s attention and resources, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents A sustained period of low stock price brings with it a risk that our stock will not comply with the minimum trading-price rules of the NASDAQ Global Market, and may be subject to delisting, thus significantly impacting the liquidity of our stock and our access to public capital. Any weaknesses identified in our system of internal controls by us and our independent registered public accounting firm pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could have an adverse effect on our business. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that companies evaluate and report on their systems of internal control over financial reporting. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must report on management’s evaluation of those controls. In future periods, we may identify deficiencies, including as a result of the loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel, in our system of internal controls over financial reporting that may require remediation. There can be no assurances that any such future deficiencies identified may not be significant deficiencies or material weaknesses that would be required to be reported in future periods. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 