ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below as well as the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K in evaluating us, our business and your investment in us. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows could be harmed. Additional risks, uncertainties and other factors that are not currently known to us or that we believe are not currently material may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows. We Have Incurred Substantial Losses And Negative Cash Flow. Synthetech was not profitable from fiscal 2001 through 2006 and again in fiscal 2008. Synthetech reported a profitable year in fiscal 2007, recording net income for the year of $193,000. During the three year period ending in fiscal 2008, Synthetech incurred a cumulative net loss of $4.5 million and negative cash flow; working capital decreased $3.7 million to $4.4 as of March 31, 2008, from $8.2 million as of March 31, 2005. Further significant deterioration in Synthetech’s working capital would impair our ability to continue operations in their present form, if at all. Continuing losses, unanticipated expenses or our pursuit of strategic opportunities may require additional debt or equity financing. Any required financing may not be available when needed or on acceptable terms. If we were to raise additional funds by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our existing shareholders would be diluted, and these securities might have rights superior to those of our common stock. If we were to incur additional indebtedness, our interest expense and leverage would increase, as would the number of debtors’ claims taking priority over any distributions to shareholders if we were to cease operations. As a manufacturer, Synthetech continually faces risks regarding the availability and costs of raw materials and labor, the need for additional capital equipment and increased maintenance costs. Synthetech is also experiencing increased sales. These factors are increasing Synthetech's cost structure, which may adversely affect Synthetech's ability to operate profitably or to generate positive cash flows. The Market For Our Products Is Uncertain, Which Could Cause Period-to-Period Revenue Fluctuations. Historically, Synthetech has experienced substantial period-to-period revenue fluctuations reflecting the industry environment in which Synthetech operates and fluctuating levels of customer orders. The market for our products is driven primarily by the market for synthetically manufactured peptide, peptidomimetic small molecule and other drugs into which they are incorporated. The drug development process is dictated by the marketplace, drug companies and the regulatory environment. Synthetech has no control over the pace of peptide, peptidomimetic small molecule and other drug development, which drugs get selected for clinical trials, which drugs are approved by the FDA, and, even if approved, the ultimate market potential of such drugs. Recurring sales of Synthetech’s products for discovery or clinical trial stage development programs are not consistent or predictable. The high cancellation rate for drug development programs results in a significant likelihood that there will be no subsequent or “follow-on” sales for any particular drug development program. Accordingly, the level of purchasing by our customers for specific drug development programs varies substantially from period to period and we cannot rely on any one customer or project as a repeat source of revenue. Sales of Synthetech’s products for marketed drugs provide an opportunity for continuing longer-term sales and the size of the customer orders for marketed drugs can be substantially larger than those for the discovery or clinical trial stages. While not subject to the same high cancellation rate faced by discovery and clinical trial stage drug development programs, the demand for approved drugs remains subject to many uncertainties, including the size of the patient population addressed, efficacy level, drug price, the drug side effects and the existence of other competing drugs. These factors, which are outside of Synthetech’s control, affect the level of demand for the drug itself and, therefore, the demand for our products. Since our revenue is composed of sales in all three drug development stages, and since even sales for marketed drugs are subject to cancellation or reduction, Synthetech is likely to continue to experience significant fluctuations in its periodic results. 6 We Depend On A Small Number of Customers. A few Synthetech customers, who generally vary from year to year, and their large-scale projects have accounted for the majority of our revenue each year. We expect this dependence to continue. During fiscal 2008, our top ten customers accounted for approximately 75% of our revenue and three of these customers accounted for approximately 39% of our revenue. The loss of any key customer or the loss or termination of any large-scale project could significantly harm our operating results, financial condition and business. Production Problems Have Decreased Our Revenues and Increased Our Costs. In recent periods, production process difficulties have reduced revenue and increased per unit costs, significantly hindering our financial results. We estimate that manufacturing difficulties related to certain customer projects reduced revenue for fiscal 2008 by approximately $1.5 million and unfavorably impacted gross margins by approximately $1.7 million, which includes charges for impaired inventory of approximately $679,000. We are continuing to address weaknesses in our manufacturing processes. In addition, despite Synthetech's process technology and manufacturing experience, initial batches of new products and scaling up production of existing products may result in significantly lower than expected yields or may require substantial rework to meet the required specification. Production of new products may result in write-offs if the manufacturing costs associated with new processes exceed the selling price for the initial batches of product. Any write-offs reduce our gross margin. Some Of Our Products Are Subject To Downward Price Pressure. As successful customer projects develop into larger volume orders either during late-stage clinical trials, product pre-launch or for marketed products, Synthetech’s per unit price may decline. Additionally, the international fine chemicals industry, in which Synthetech is a niche participant, has been marked by overcapacity and increasing competition from developing countries, resulting in downward pressure on pricing. Downward price pressure and resulting price declines could significantly decrease our gross margin if not offset by an increase in customer requirements. The Loss Of Any Of Our Key Personnel Could Materially Adversely Affect Our Business. Synthetech’s success depends largely on its CEO, President and COO, its Vice President of Finance and CFO, its Director of Business Development, its Director of Sales and Marketing, its Technical Director and other key employees, particularly its scientists. Synthetech does not have key-man life insurance on any of these employees. The loss of any of these key employees could result in delays to production, loss of sales and diversion of management resources. There is substantial competition for experienced technical, sales and marketing personnel in the fine chemicals industry and many of Synthetech's competitors have greater resources than Synthetech. If Synthetech is unable to retain its existing personnel, or attract and retain additional qualified personnel, it may from time to time experience inadequate levels of staffing which could have a material adverse effect on Synthetech. Our growth could be limited due to our lack of capacity to produce and market products to customers, a deterioration in customer service or decreased customer satisfaction. We Face Increasing Competition. As the market for our products has continued to mature with multi-ton order sizes becoming more prevalent, the competition in our market sector has intensified. Current competition in the multi-kilo or smaller quantities of natural amino acid based products comes primarily from several European fine chemical companies. Multi-ton order sizes of these natural amino acid based products have begun to attract a wider group of domestic and international chemical companies. In the area of synthetic amino acid based products, we face competition on a selective product basis from fine chemical producers in Europe, Japan and the United States. Competition from companies in developing countries, such as China, India and South Korea, is also emerging and management believes that this source of competition will continue to increase in the foreseeable future. Competitors with operations based in developing countries may benefit from a lower cost structure than similar operations based in developed countries such as the United States. 7 Competition has also increased for supplying products to drug development programs that reach late clinical trials and move into an approved status as a result of increased quantities typically required at these stages and pharmaceutical company requirements to have second sources of material available. Many of our competitors have significantly greater technical, financial, selling and other resources available to them than we do. We Face Risks of Technological Change. The market for Synthetech’s products is characterized by rapid changes in both product and process technologies. Our future operating results will depend upon our ability to improve and market our existing products and to successfully develop, manufacture and market new products. We may not be able to continue to improve and market our existing products or develop and market new products, and technological developments could cause our existing products and technologies to become obsolete or noncompetitive. Industry Cost Factors Beyond Our Control May Adversely Affect Our Revenue and Profits. The market for Synthetech’s products used by pharmaceutical companies depends on the market for pharmaceutical products. The levels of revenue and profitability of pharmaceutical companies may be affected by the continuing efforts of governmental and third party payers to contain or reduce the cost of health care through various means. For example, in certain foreign markets, pricing or profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to government control. In the United States, there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of federal and state proposals to implement similar government controls. In addition, in the United States and elsewhere, sales of prescription pharmaceuticals depend in part on the availability of reimbursement to the consumer from third party payers such as government and private insurance plans. Third party payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Peptide and peptidomimetic small molecule drugs may not be considered cost effective, and reimbursement may not be available or sufficient to allow these drugs to be sold on a profitable basis. In addition, as cost pressures in the pharmaceutical industry have tightened, the cancellation rate for drug development programs has increased. Industry cost pressures can also cause pharmaceutical companies to investigate alternative drug manufacturing processes that may not include Synthetech’s products. We Are Subject to Significant Environmental Regulation. Synthetech is subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations related to the discharge or disposal of toxic, volatile or other hazardous chemicals. The failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in fines being imposed on Synthetech, suspension of production or cessation of operations. Third parties may also have the right to sue to enforce compliance. Moreover, it is possible that increasingly strict requirements imposed by environmental laws and enforcement policies thereunder could require us to make significant capital expenditures. The operation of a chemical manufacturing plant entails an inherent risk of environmental damage or personal injury due to the handling of potentially harmful substances, and we may incur material costs and liabilities in the future because of an accident or other event resulting in personal injury or unauthorized release of such substances to the environment. In addition, Synthetech generates hazardous materials and other wastes that are disposed at various offsite facilities. Synthetech may be liable, irrespective of fault, for material cleanup costs or other liabilities incurred at these disposal facilities in the event of a release of hazardous substances by such facilities into the environment. Although we have obtained environmental risk insurance, it may be inadequate to cover Synthetech’s potential environmental liabilities. 8 Our Property, Plant and Equipment May Become Further Impaired. As of March 31, 2008, the net book value of property, plant and equipment reported on our balance sheet was $3.9 million, or approximately 47% of shareholder’s equity. We perform a periodic assessment of the carrying value of our property, plant and equipment for potential impairment. If property, plant and equipment is determined to be impaired in the future we would reduce the book value of the applicable assets and record a corresponding charge to our results of operations. For example, during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 we recorded a property, plant and equipment impairment charge totaling $6.3 million. Our Costs May Increase to Comply with cGMP Guidelines or If We Produce APIs. Because Synthetech’s products are intermediates sold to drug manufacturers, we generally have been unaffected directly by FDA regulation, which is primarily directed at the drug manufacturers for active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs). However, some customers request that Synthetech manufacture and supply products with additional processing that complies with the FDA’s Current Good Manufacturing Practice (cGMP) guidelines for APIs. Because these programs include more extensive quality assurance systems and documentation, our expenses associated with establishing and maintaining cGMP compliant programs may increase, including the need for additional capital expenditures. In addition, we would need to incur significant additional costs to qualify to produce APIs. Our Business Is Subject To Risks Associated With Doing Business Internationally. Sales to customers outside the United States accounted for approximately 39% of our net sales during fiscal 2008 and 34% and 52% for fiscal 2007 and 2006, respectively. We expect that international sales will continue to account for a significant percentage of net sales. Our business is and will be subject to the risks generally associated with doing business internationally, including changes in demand resulting from fluctuations in exchange rates, foreign governmental regulation and changes in economic conditions. These factors, among others, could influence our ability to sell our products in international markets. In addition, sales of Synthetech's products are subject to the risks associated with legislation and regulation relating to imports, including quotas, duties or taxes and other charges, restrictions and retaliatory actions on imports into other countries in which our products may be sold. We are also subject to similar risks with respect to the importation of raw materials from foreign countries. Changes in these regulations could increase costs or prevent us from accessing materials necessary for our products. We Operate From A Single Facility, Which Make Us Vulnerable to any Disruption Thereof, And Demand For Our Products May Not Match Our Manufacturing Capacity. We utilize a single facility located in Albany, Oregon, for substantially all of our manufacturing, administrative, research and development and all other functions. We depend on our laboratories and manufacturing facilities for the continued operation of our business. A disruption in our production or distribution or damage to or destruction of our facility due to an earthquake, explosion or other event could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and business. Conversely, we may not have sufficient product demand to efficiently utilize our existing capacity, which could also have a material adverse effect on our financial results. 9 Product Liability Claims Could Have a Material Adverse Effect On Our Business, Reputation Or Financial Condition. Use of Synthetech’s products in pharmaceuticals and the subsequent testing, marketing and sale of such products involves an inherent risk of product liability. Claims for product liability could be asserted against us and we may not be able to successfully defend any claim that may be asserted. Even if Synthetech is successful, the costs of defense could materially affect our business. A product liability claim could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation or financial condition. Our existing insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover our potential liabilities and we are responsible for deductible amounts under each of our insurance policies. Our Common Stock Trades on the OTC Bulletin Boards, Which May Adversely Affect Its Liquidity. On October 13, 2005, Synthetech’s common stock was delisted from the Nasdaq SmallCap Market due to noncompliance with NASDAQ’s minimum bid price requirement. Prices for Synthetech’s common stock were reported on the over-the-counter (OTC) Pink Sheets under the symbol NZYM.PK through May 22, 2007. Beginning on May 23, 2007 prices for Synthetech’s common stock are currently reported on the OTC Bulletin Boards under the symbol NZYM.OB. Synthetech's inability to list its common stock on a national securities exchange may adversely affect its liquidity. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. ITEM 