ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business Generally The terms of our credit agreements may restrict our current and future operating and financial flexibility. The agreements that are in effect with respect to the remaining debt include a number of covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: • engage in mergers, consolidations and asset dispositions; • pay dividends on or redeem or repurchase stock; • merge into or consolidate with any third party; • create, incur, assume or guarantee additional indebtedness; • create, incur, assume or permit any liens on any asset; • make loans and investments; • engage in transactions with affiliates; • prepay, redeem or repurchase subordinated indebtedness; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; • make asset or property dispositions; and • change the nature of our business. Our credit agreements also contain covenants that require our operations to produce minimum quarterly, six, nine, and twelve month fiscal period EBITDA amounts (as defined in the agreements) and that we maintain a certain level of minimum liquidity. A failure to comply with the covenants under our credit agreements could result in an event of default. In the event of a default under our credit agreements, the lenders could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and other fees, to be due and payable, and to require us to apply all of our available cash to repay these borrowings. 5 Table of Contents Our sales depend on transaction fees from our network of ATMs. A decline in either transaction volume or the level of transaction fees could reduce our sales and harm our operating results. Our operating results depend on both transaction volume and the amount of the transaction fees we receive from our ATM network. Our transaction volume and fees depend principally upon: • our ability to replace sites lost through non-renewal or termination of our contracts by the merchants in whose stores we currently have placed our ATMs; • competition, which can result in over-served markets, pressure both to reduce existing fee structures and increase sales discounts to merchants and reduced opportunities to secure merchant or other placements of our machines; • our ability to service, maintain and repair ATMs in our network promptly and efficiently; • continued market acceptance of our services; and • government regulation and network adjustment of our fees. If our transaction volume or the level of transaction fees we receive decrease, our sales could decline, which would impact our operating results. If merchant-owned ATM customers terminate their relationships with us prior to the termination of their contract or do not renew their contracts upon their expiration, it could reduce our ATM sales. Although our merchant-owned ATM customers have multi-year contracts with us for transaction processing services, due to competition, some of these customers may leave us for our competitors prior to the expiration of their contracts, or may not renew their contracts upon their expiration. When this occurs, we pursue these customers to remain processing with us or alternatively, in the event they terminate their relationship with us prior to expiration of their contracts, we seek payment of damages under a breach of contract clause in our contracts. If a substantial number of merchant-owned ATM customers end their relationships with us, it could cause a material reduction in our ATM sales. Changes in technology standards may cause us to incur substantial expense in upgrading or replacing our ATMs and could reduce use of ATMs and reduce our sales. New technology in the ATM industry may result in the existing machines in our networks becoming obsolete, requiring us, or the merchants in our networks who own their machines, to either replace or upgrade our existing machines. Any replacement or upgrade program to machines that we own or that we must upgrade or replace under contracts with merchant owners would involve substantial expense, as was the case with respect to the upgrade of our ATMs to meet triple DES requirements. A failure to either replace or upgrade obsolete machines could result in customers using other ATM networks that could employ newer technology, thereby reducing our sales and reducing or eliminating our operating margins. As a result of our financial situation, we may not have sufficient capital to provide upgrades or replacements to a significant degree, which could impact our operating results. The Americans with Disabilities Act, or ADA, currently includes provisions regulating the amount of clear floor space required in front of each ATM, prescribing the maximum height and reach depth of each ATM, and mandating that instructions and all information for use of the ATM be made accessible to and independently usable by persons with vision impairments. The Department of Justice is currently drafting new accessibility guidelines under the ADA that will cover virtually all aspects of commercial activity relating to disabled persons. We expect that these new guidelines will include provisions addressing ATMs and how to make them more accessible to the disabled. Under the current proposals, height and reach requirements would be shortened, keypads would be required to be laid out in the manner of telephone keypads with selected Braille symbols and ATMs would be required to possess speech capabilities. These new guidelines would affect the manufacture of ATM equipment going forward and could require us to retire or upgrade many of the ATMs we own, as well as merchant-owned ATMs where we are responsible for upgrade costs, potentially at significant expense to us. While we anticipate having the resources available to complete any required upgrades to our ATMs, if our projections are not achieved or our circumstances worsen, we may not have sufficient resources without obtaining additional financing, which may not be available to us. The comment period on the proposed guidelines ended May 31, 2005. No guidelines have yet been promulgated. Should the guidelines proposed become final, we anticipate an 18-month phase-in before new equipment in new locations must comply with new accessibility requirements. If ATMs in our network are not compliant with any applicable ADA guidelines by any 6 Table of Contents established deadlines and we cannot obtain compliance waivers, we could have to remove the non-compliant ATMs from service and, as a result, our ATM net sales could be materially reduced during the period of time necessary to become compliant. The ATM market is highly competitive, which could limit our growth or reduce our sales. Persons seeking ATM services have numerous choices. These choices include ATMs offered by banks or other financial institutions and ATMs offered by ISOs such as ours. Some of our competitors offer services directly comparable to ours while others are only indirect competitors as we describe in “Business — Competition.” In addition, we believe that there will be continued consolidation in the ATM industry in the United States. Accordingly, new competitors may emerge and quickly acquire significant market share. This competition could prevent us from obtaining or maintaining desirable locations for our machines, reduce the use of our machines, and limit or reduce the transaction fees we can charge or require us to increase our merchants’ share of those fees. The occurrence of any of these factors could limit our growth or reduce our sales. We rely on third parties to service our ATMs and their failure to do so may harm our operations, damage our reputation and decrease our transaction volume. Our success depends upon the proper functioning of our ATMs. We rely on third party service providers to service our ATMs. If our third-party service providers fail to service our ATMs properly, or fail to respond quickly to problems, we may lose customers which will decrease our transaction volume and adversely affect our ability to become profitable. Additionally if our third-party service providers fail to service our ATMs, our reputation and ability to grow may be impaired. Increases in interest rates will increase our expenses. We have a cash provisioning agreement that has a variable interest rate formula. Consequently, increases in interest rates increase our operating costs and expenses. See Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk — Interest Rate Risk” for a discussion regarding the impact of changes in interest rates on our expenses. Our ATM business operates in a changing and unpredictable regulatory environment. ATM withdrawal transactions involve the electronic transfer of funds through EFTNs. The United States Electronic Funds Transfer Act provides the basic framework establishing the rights, liabilities and responsibilities of participants in EFTNs. In addition, there have been various state and local efforts to ban, limit or otherwise regulate ATM transaction fees, which make up a large portion of our sales. For example, in Tennessee, Nebraska and Iowa only bank-sponsored ATMs can impose withdrawal fees. As a result, in these states we must make arrangements with a local bank to act as a sponsor of ATMs in our networks, which typically involves additional documentation costs and payment of a fee to the bank. Any limitation on our ability to charge withdrawal fees in areas where we have a concentration of ATMs could reduce our ATM sales and reduce the incentive that merchants would have to keep ATMs in our network on their premises. In addition, if existing regulations are made more restrictive or new regulations are enacted, we may incur significant expense to comply with them. Because of reported instances of fraudulent use of ATMs, including the use of electronic devices to scan ATM card information, or skimming, legislation is pending that would require state or federal licensing and background checks of ATM operators and would regulate the deployment and operation of ATMs. There are proposals pending in some jurisdictions that would require merchants that are not financial institutions to be licensed in order to maintain an ATM on their premises; some jurisdictions currently require such licensing. New licensing, deployment or operating requirements could increase our cost of doing business in those markets. The passing of anti-money laundering legislation could cause us to lose some merchant accounts, thus reducing our revenues. Recent concerns expressed by the United States federal government regarding the use of ATMs to launder money could lead to the imposition of additional regulations on our sponsoring financial institutions and our merchant customers regarding the source of cash loaded into their ATMs. In particular, such regulations could result in the incurrence of additional costs by individual merchants who load their own cash, thereby making their ATMs less profitable. Accordingly, some individual merchants may decide to discontinue their ATM operations, thus reducing the number of merchant-owned accounts that we currently manage. If such a reduction were to occur, we would see a corresponding decrease in our revenues. 7 Table of Contents If we, our transaction processors, our EFTNs or our other service providers experience system failures, the ATM products and services we provide could be delayed or interrupted, which would harm our business. Our ability to provide reliable service largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operations of our transaction processors, EFTNs and other service providers. Any significant interruptions could severely harm our business and reputation and result in a loss of sales. Additionally, if we cause any such interruption, we could lose the affected merchants or damage our relationships with them. Our systems and operations, and those of our transaction processors, EFTNs and other service providers, could be exposed to damage or interruption from fire, natural disaster, unlawful acts, terrorist attacks, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry and computer viruses. We cannot be certain that any measures we and our service providers have taken to prevent system failures will be successful or that we will not experience service interruptions. Further, our property and business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses or failures that may occur. We rely on EFTNs and transaction processors; if we cannot renew our agreements with them, if they are unable to perform their services effectively or if they decrease the level of the transaction fees we receive, it could harm our business. We rely on several EFTNs and transaction processors to provide card authorization, data capture and settlement services to us and our merchant customers. Any inability on our part to renew our agreements with these or similar service providers or their failure to provide their services efficiently and effectively may damage our relationships with our merchants and may permit those merchants to terminate their agreements with us. Our ATM net sales depend to a significant extent upon the transaction fees we receive through EFTNs. If one or more of the EFTNs in which we participate reduces the transaction fees it pays us, and we are unable to route transactions to other EFTNs to replace them, our ATM net sales would be reduced. We could lose access to vault cash used to fill our placement ATMs under a cash provisioning agreement. We obtain the cash, which we call vault cash, to fill our company-owned ATMs in the United States through a cash provisioning agreement with ELAN Financial Services. If our cash provisioning agreement terminates, we may be unable to obtain cash from alternative sources on acceptable terms or at all. If we do not have access to vault cash for our company-owned ATMs we will have to suspend our operations with respect to these ATMs, our results of operations will be reduced and the value of our shareholders’ investments will decrease. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Our charter documents and Oregon law may inhibit a takeover that shareholders may consider favorable. The Oregon Business Corporation Act, our restated articles of incorporation and our restated bylaws contain provisions that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company or our management that shareholders may consider favorable or beneficial, which could reduce the value of our shareholders’ investments. These provisions could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for shareholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions include: • authorization to issue “blank check” preferred stock, which is preferred stock that can be created by our board of directors without prior shareholder approval and with rights senior to those of common stock; • a classified board of directors, so that it could take three successive annual meetings to replace all directors; • authority for directors to establish the size of the board of directors without shareholder approval; • a requirement of a 75% vote of shareholders to remove a director for cause; • a requirement of a 75% vote of shareholders for business combinations with a 5% or greater shareholder that is not approved by our board of directors, with only limited exceptions; and • an advance notice requirement for shareholder proposals. Our stock could be removed from the Pink Sheets electronic quotation service through which broker-dealers can make markets and enter orders to buy and sell shares of our stock. Our securities are not technically listed on the Pink Sheets so it is not possible for our stock to be delisted. However, if all market makers stop quoting our stock it could be removed from the service and impede shareholders and investors from buying and selling the shares. Our 8 Table of Contents stock is also on Bulletin Board quotation services by FINRA. To remain on this service we need to maintain our SEC reporting status. If we encounter regulatory issues with the SEC we could be removed from both quotation services and impede shareholders and investors from buying and selling shares of our stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 