ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business Generally We are uncertain whether our operations can generate sufficient cash to comply with the covenants of our loan agreements and to pay our obligations on an ongoing basis. We incurred a net loss of $120.1 million in the year ended December 31, 2006. As a result of our financial performance for the three months ended September 30, 2006, we failed to meet certain financial covenants of our financing agreements with GSO Origination Funding Partners LP and other lenders. On November 20, 2006 we entered into amendments that restructured our loans and waived the failure to meet the loan covenants. Under the restructured loan agreements principal payments of $69.9 million were due in the first quarter of 2007. During January 2007 we sold our Canadian and United Kingdom ATM businesses and our United States photocopy business and used $98.5 million from the proceeds of those sales to make principal and interest payments under these loans, leaving a remaining balance of principal plus accrued interest of approximately $2.0 million. We are uncertain whether our remaining operations can generate sufficient cash to comply with the covenants of our restructured loan agreements and to pay our obligations on an ongoing basis. Because there are cross-default provisions in TRM Inventory Funding Trust’s Loan and Servicing Agreement, if we fail to comply with the covenants of our restructured loan agreements and are declared to be in default by GSO Origination Funding Partners LP and other lenders, we may be declared in default of the provisions of the Loan and Servicing Agreement as well, and the lender may be able to demand payment. These factors, among others, may indicate that we may be unable to continue as a going concern for a reasonable period of time. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability and classification of recorded asset amounts or the amounts and classification of liabilities that may be necessary should we be unable to continue as a going concern. Our continuation as a going concern is contingent upon our ability to generate sufficient cash to pay our obligations on an ongoing basis. We could be liable for sales price adjustments and warranty/indemnification claims relating to businesses we sold in January 2007. In January 2007 we sold our ATM businesses in the United Kingdom, Germany and Canada, and our photocopy business in the United States in three separate transactions. In connection with each of these sales, we have made various representations and warranties and/or provided indemnities including those relating to taxation matters. Further, the sales prices are subject to adjustment based on working capital amounts, the value of accounts receivable as of the closing of the sale or other factors, the amounts of which have not yet been agreed upon. The purchasers may make claims against us relating to the representations or warranties or provisions for adjustment of the sales prices, and those claims could be substantial. Because we used substantially all of the net proceeds from the business sales to reduce our debt, we might not have sufficient cash to pay such claims without additional financing, which may not be available to us. Our sales depend on transaction fees from our networks of ATMs and photocopiers. A decline in either transaction volume or the level of transaction fees could reduce our sales and harm our operating results. Following the sales of our United States and United Kingdom photocopy operations and our United Kingdom, German and Canadian ATM operations, transaction fees for our ATM networks in the United States produce substantially all of our sales. Consequently, our future operating results will depend on both transaction volume and the amount of the transaction fees we receive from that network. Our transaction volume and fees from that network will depend principally upon: • our ability to replace sites lost through non-renewal or termination of our contracts by the merchants in whose stores we currently have placed our ATMs; • competition, which can result in over-served markets, pressure both to reduce existing fee structures and increase sales discounts to merchants and reduced opportunities to secure merchant or other placements of our machines; • our ability to service, maintain and repair ATMs in our network promptly and efficiently; • continued market acceptance of our services; and • government regulation and network adjustment of our fees. 7 Table of Contents If our transaction volume or the level of transaction fees we receive decrease in either of our primary market segments, our sales could decline, which would harm our operating results. We have experienced significant attrition in the number of ATMs in our networks. This attrition has reduced and, if it continues in the future will further reduce, our sales and our ability to become profitable. We have experienced significant attrition in the number of ATMs in our network due principally to merchants whose ATM contracts we acquired in our acquisition of the ATM business of eFunds Corporation not renewing, or terminating, their contracts with us. In 2006 the average number of transacting ATMs in our United States ATM network decreased by 2,152 ATMs, or 14.8%, from the average number of transacting ATMs in our United States ATM network during 2005. While we have sought to halt this attrition through improved merchant service, our efforts may not be successful. The attrition has reduced our sales and harmed our ability to become profitable; if the trend continues, our sales could experience significant further reductions which would further impair our ability to become profitable. Changes in technology could reduce use of ATMs and photocopiers and, as a result, reduce our sales. New technology in the ATM or photocopier industries may result in the existing machines in our networks becoming obsolete, requiring us, or the merchants in our networks who own their machines, to either replace or upgrade our existing machines. Any replacement or upgrade program to machines that we own or that we must upgrade or replace under contracts with merchant owners would involve substantial expense, as was, and will be, the case with respect to the upgrade of our ATMs to meet triple DES requirements. A failure to either replace or upgrade obsolete machines could result in customers using other ATM or photocopier networks that have newer technology, thereby reducing our sales and reducing or eliminating our operating margins. As a result of our financial situation, we may not have sufficient capital to provide upgrades or replacements to any significant degree, and probably will not have access to financing to do so. Both the ATM and photocopier markets are highly competitive, which could limit our growth or reduce our sales. Persons seeking either ATM or photocopier services have numerous choices. For ATMs, these choices include ATMs offered by banks or other financial institutions and ATMs offered by ISOs such as ours. For photocopiers, the choices include specialty full-service business centers, copy and print shops, photocopiers located at other convenient merchant locations and home photocopiers and printers. Some of our competitors offer services directly comparable to ours while others, particularly in the photocopier market, are only indirect competitors as we describe in “Business — Competition.” In addition, we believe that there will be continued consolidation in the ATM industry in the United States. Accordingly, new competitors may emerge and quickly acquire significant market share. This competition could prevent us from obtaining or maintaining desirable locations for our machines, reduce the use of our machines, and limit or reduce the transaction fees we can charge or require us to increase our merchants’ share of those fees. Moreover, because the economic barrier to entry into the photocopier business is low, additional competitors may enter our markets. The occurrence of any of these factors could limit our growth or reduce our sales. Our failure to achieve and maintain adequate internal control in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could result in a loss of investor confidence regarding our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. During the course of the evaluation, attestation, and compliance process required by Section 404, we have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting at December 31, 2005, September 30, 2006, and December 31, 2006. For a discussion of these weaknesses and the steps we have taken and expect to take to remedy these weaknesses, see Item 9A – “Controls and Procedures.” Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment, could result in a loss of investor confidence regarding the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports. Moreover, effective internal control is necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports. If we cannot produce reliable financial reports or otherwise maintain appropriate internal control, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information and the market price for our stock could decline significantly. The terms of our credit agreement may restrict our current and future operating and financial flexibility. As a result of our sales of our U.K., German and Canadian ATM businesses and our U.K. and U.S. photocopy businesses, we have substantially repaid our outstanding credit facility debt. However, approximately $2.0 million of that debt remains outstanding. The credit agreements that are in effect with respect to the remaining debt include a number of covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: 8 Table of Contents • engage in mergers, consolidations and asset dispositions; • pay dividends on or redeem or repurchase stock; • merge into or consolidate with any third party; • create, incur, assume or guarantee additional indebtedness; • incur liens; • make loans and investments; • pay dividends; • engage in transactions with affiliates; • prepay, redeem or repurchase subordinated indebtedness; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; • make asset or property dispositions; and • change the nature of our business. Our credit agreements also contain covenants that prohibit our consolidated capital expenditures for each month from exceeding certain amounts. In addition, we are required to maintain specified financial ratios. As a result of these ratios, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business, and may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. Accordingly, these restrictions may limit our ability to successfully operate our business. A failure to comply with the covenants under our credit agreement could result in an event of default. In the event of a default under our credit agreement, the lenders could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and other fees, to be due and payable, and to require us to apply all of our available cash to repay these borrowings. An acceleration of maturity under our credit agreement would result in an event of default under the TRM Inventory Funding Trust’s Loan and Servicing Agreement which is the source of cash we use in our ATMs. See “Risks Relating to Our ATM Business – We obtain our United States ATM vault cash under an arrangement that could cause us to lose our access to the vault cash and to fees that we have earned due to circumstances beyond our control.” If any or all of our debt were to be accelerated, we may not have sufficient liquid assets available to us to repay such indebtedness in full and the lenders may proceed against the collateral securing such indebtedness, which includes the capital stock of our subsidiaries. If we are unable to remediate the material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, the accuracy and timing of our financial reporting may be impaired. In connection with the audits of our financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2006, and the review of our financial statements for the quarter ended September 30, 2006, we identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. We have formulated programs to remedy the material weaknesses we have identified. We cannot assure you that our programs will be adequate to remedy these weaknesses, that we have identified all weaknesses or that we will not in the future have additional weaknesses. If we are unable to remediate our control weaknesses, or other weaknesses are identified or arise in the future, the accuracy and timing of our financial reporting may be impaired. We have received a “going concern” opinion from our independent registered public accounting firm, which may negatively impact our business. We have received a report from PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, our independent registered public accounting firm, regarding our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2006, which included an explanatory paragraph stating that the consolidated financial statements were prepared assuming we will continue as a going concern. The report also stated that our uncertainty regarding our ability to meet our future obligations has 9 Table of Contents raised substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Any failure to dispel any continuing doubts about our ability to continue as a going concern could adversely affect our ability to enter into collaborative relationships and to raise additional capital, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Our ATM Business We depend on eFunds Corporation to provide many services on which we rely. Our ATM business requires close coordination of merchant relationships, cardholder relationships, cash management activities and telecommunication services. In connection with our acquisition of the eFunds ATM business, we entered into a master services agreement with eFunds pursuant to which eFunds will provide most of these services to us. eFunds also provides us with transaction processing and EFTN management services. As a result, we depend on eFunds to provide many services that are necessary to the operations of our ATM business. eFunds may be unable or unwilling to provide all of these services at a level that we consider necessary. In that event, if we are unable to terminate our relationship with eFunds or are unable to obtain replacement services in a timely manner, our transaction volume could be reduced and our relationships with our merchants or cardholders could deteriorate. If merchant-owned ATM customers terminate their relationships with us prior to the termination of their contract or do not renew their contracts upon their expiration, it could reduce our ATM sales. Although our merchant-owned ATM customers have multi-year contracts with us for transaction processing services, due to competition, some of these customers may leave us for our competitors prior to the expiration of their contracts, or may not renew their contracts upon their expiration. When this occurs, we pursue these customers to remain processing with us or alternatively, in the event they terminate their relationship with us prior to expiration of their contracts, we seek payment of damages under a breach of contract clause in our contracts. If a substantial number of merchant-owned ATM customers end their relationships with us, it could cause a reduction in our ATM sales. We rely on third parties to service our ATMs and their failure to do so may harm our operations, damage our reputation and decrease our transaction volume. Our success depends upon the proper functioning of our ATMs. We rely on third parties to service our ATMs. If our third-party service providers fail to service our ATMs properly, or fail to respond quickly to problems, we may lose customers and decrease our transaction volume, which could adversely affect our profitability. Additionally if our third-party service providers fail to service our ATMs, our reputation and growth may be negatively impacted. Increases in interest rates will increase our expenses. We have credit and vault cash facilities that carry variable interest rates. Consequently, increases in interest rates increase our operating costs and expenses. See Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk – Interest Rate Risk” for a discussion regarding the impact of changes in interest rates on our expenses. Our ATM business operates in a changing and unpredictable regulatory environment. ATM withdrawal transactions involve the electronic transfer of funds through EFTNs. The United States Electronic Funds Transfer Act provides the basic framework establishing the rights, liabilities and responsibilities of participants in EFTNs. In addition, there have been various state and local efforts to ban, limit or otherwise regulate ATM transaction fees, which make up a large portion of our sales for our placement ATMs and the principal source of ATM revenue for merchants with merchant-owned ATMs in our network. For example, in Tennessee, Nebraska and Iowa only bank-sponsored ATMs can impose withdrawal fees. As a result, in these states we must make arrangements with a local bank to act as a sponsor of ATMs in our networks, which typically involves additional documentation costs and payment of a fee to the bank. As a result, any limitation on the ability to charge withdrawal fees in areas where we have a concentration of ATMs could reduce our ATM sales from our placement ATMs and reduce the incentive that merchants with merchant-owned ATMs would have to keep ATMs in our network on their premises. In addition, if existing regulations are made more restrictive or new regulations are enacted, we may incur significant expense to comply with them. Because of reported instances of fraudulent use of ATMs, including the use of electronic devises to scan ATM card information, or skimming, legislation is pending that would require state or federal licensing and background checks of ATM operators and would regulate the deployment and operation of ATMs. There are 10 Table of Contents proposals pending in some jurisdictions that would require merchants that are not financial institutions to be licensed in order to maintain an ATM on their premises; some jurisdictions currently require such licensing. New licensing, deployment or operating requirements could increase our cost of doing business in those markets. We will incur substantial expense in upgrading our ATMs to meet new standards, and, if we cannot meet compliance deadlines, we could be required to remove non-compliant ATMs from service. Data encryption makes ATMs more tamper-resistant. Two of the more recently developed advanced data encryption methods are commonly referred to as EPP and Triple DES. In 2005, we adopted a policy that any new ATMs that we acquire from a manufacturer must be both EPP and Triple DES complaint. We have budgeted approximately $700,000 to complete this encryption upgrade for all of our placement ATMs by the end of 2007. We believe this time frame will be acceptable to the major processing networks. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 76% of our owned ATMs in the United States were compliant with EPP and Triple DES. The Americans with Disabilities Act, or ADA, currently includes provisions regulating the amount of clear floor space required in front of each ATM, prescribing the maximum height and reach depth of each ATM, and mandating that instructions and all information for use of the ATM be made accessible to and independently usable by persons with vision impairments. The United States Department of Justice is currently drafting new accessibility guidelines under the ADA that will cover virtually all aspects of commercial activity relating to disabled persons. We expect that these new guidelines will include provisions addressing ATMs and how to make them more accessible to the disabled. Under the current proposals, height and reach requirements would be shortened, keypads would be required to be laid out in the manner of telephone keypads with selected Braille symbols and ATMs would be required to possess speech capabilities. These new guidelines would affect the manufacture of ATM equipment going forward and could require us to retire or upgrade many of the ATMs we own, as well as merchant-owned ATMs where we are responsible for upgrade costs, potentially at significant expense to us. While we anticipate having the resources available to complete any required upgrades to our ATMs, if our projections are not achieved or our circumstances worsen, we may not have sufficient resources without obtaining additional financing, which may not be available to us. The comment period on the proposed guidelines ended May 31, 2005. No guidelines have yet been promulgated. Should the guidelines proposed become final, we anticipate an 18-month phase-in before new equipment in new locations must comply with new accessibility requirements. If ATMs in our network are not compliant with EPP and triple DES and any applicable ADA guidelines by the respective deadlines and we cannot obtain compliance waivers, we could have to remove the non-compliant ATMs from service and, as a result, our ATM net sales could be materially reduced during the period of time necessary to become compliant. The passing of anti-money laundering legislation could cause us to lose some merchant accounts, thus reducing our revenues. Recent concerns by the United States federal government regarding the use of ATMs to launder money could lead to the imposition of additional regulations on our sponsoring financial institutions and our merchant customers regarding the source of cash loaded into their ATMs. In particular, such regulations could result in the incurrence of additional costs by individual merchants who load their own cash, thereby making their ATMs less profitable. Accordingly, some individual merchants may decide to discontinue their ATM operations, thus reducing the number of merchant-owned accounts that we currently manage. If such a reduction were to occur, we would see a corresponding decrease in our revenues. If we, our transaction processors, our EFTNs or our other service providers experience system failures, the ATM products and services we provide could be delayed or interrupted, which would harm our business. Our ability to provide reliable service largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operations of our transaction processors, EFTNs and other service providers. Any significant interruptions could severely harm our business and reputation and result in a loss of sales. Additionally, if we cause any such interruption, we could lose the affected merchants or damage our relationships with them. Our systems and operations, and those of our transaction processors, EFTNs and other service providers, could be exposed to damage or interruption from fire, natural disaster, unlawful acts, terrorist attacks, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry and computer viruses. We cannot be certain that any measures we and our service providers have taken to prevent system failures will be successful or that we will not experience service interruptions. Further, our property and business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses or failures that may occur. 11 Table of Contents We rely on EFTNs and transaction processors; if we cannot renew our agreements with them, if they are unable to perform their services effectively or if they decrease the level of the transaction fees we receive, it could harm our business. We rely on several EFTNs and transaction processors to provide card authorization, data capture and settlement services to us and our merchant customers. Any inability on our part to renew our agreements with these or similar service providers or their failure to provide their services efficiently and effectively may damage our relationships with our merchants and may permit those merchants to terminate their agreements with us. Our ATM net sales depend to a significant extent upon the transaction fees we receive through EFTNs. If one or more of the EFTNs in which we participate reduces the transaction fees it pays us, and we are unable to route transactions to other EFTNs to replace them, our ATM net sales would be reduced. We obtain our ATM vault cash under an arrangement that could cause us to lose our access to the vault cash and to fees that we have earned due to circumstances beyond our control. Our vault cash facility is secured by the cash we draw from it to place in ATMs, as well as by the withdrawal and interchange fees we have earned but not yet collected, so the lender under that arrangement could seize the cash and fees in the event of a default. We obtain the cash that we use to fill our placement ATMs and some of the merchant-owned ATMs in our networks, which we call vault cash, in the United States pursuant to an agreement with TRM Inventory Funding Trust, for which one of our subsidiaries, TRM ATM Corporation, acts as servicer. Under the terms of the loan and servicing agreement, the Trust and the servicer must make periodic payments of fees related to the arrangement. The obligations under the loan and servicing agreement are secured by pledges of all of the Trust’s assets, including the vault cash, and our uncollected withdrawal and interchange fees. If there is a default under the loan and servicing agreement, the lender may terminate the loan and servicing agreement and seize the collateral, including existing vault cash and fees we have not yet received. As a result, a default under the loan and servicing agreement could cause us to lose fees we had earned and suspend operations with respect to our placement ATMs unless we were able to rapidly arrange an alternative source of vault cash. Our vault cash arrangement could go into default as a result of factors over which we have no control. The loan and servicing agreement for our vault cash facility contains events of default that include: • An “event of bankruptcy” with respect to any entity on whose property more than 10% of our ATMs are located, if we are unable to remove all cash from those ATMs within five business days after the event of bankruptcy occurs. An event of bankruptcy includes the filing of a bankruptcy petition with a court, an entity admitting in writing that it is unable to satisfy its obligations as they become due or the board of directors of the entity voting to cause an event of bankruptcy, regardless of whether we are informed of any of these actions. • Any depository bank or transportation agent, excepting one pre-approved bank and one pre-approved transportation agent, failing to maintain a specified debt rating. • The amount of vault cash held by or maintained on the premises of entities, which would generally be our transportation agents and merchants, that have experienced an event of bankruptcy when added to the amount of cash owed from settlement banks that is past due exceeding a designated level. Due to these provisions, the bankruptcy or financial difficulty of our merchants or the companies on which we rely for services could cause an event of default under our loan and servicing agreement and prevent us from having access to the vault cash we require to operate our placement and some of our merchant-owned United States ATMs. We do not have any operational control over our merchants or other service providers and may not be able to determine whether any of these entities are facing financial difficulty that could increase our risk of default under the loan and servicing agreement. As a result, we could lose access to our United States vault cash due to circumstances that we would be unable to foresee and that are beyond our control. If our vault cash arrangement terminates, we may be unable to obtain vault cash from alternative sources on acceptable terms or at all. If we do not have access to vault cash for our placement ATMs and those of our merchant-owned ATMs for which we provide vault cash, we will have to suspend our operations with respect to these ATMs, our 12 Table of Contents results of operations will be reduced and the value of your investment will decrease. See “Risks Related to Our Business Generally — We are uncertain whether our operations can generate sufficient cash to comply with the covenants of our loan agreements and to pay our obligations on an ongoing basis.” We experienced substantial theft losses in our ATM operations in the past. If we were to experience a recurrence of these losses, our results of operations would be harmed. Our United States ATM operations experienced $569,000 in unreimbursed theft losses in 2005, as a result of which we implemented new measures to counter theft and vandalism. Our unreimbursed theft losses in 2006 were $201,000. We cannot assure you that the anti-theft and anti-vandalism measures we have taken will be sufficient to reduce or even maintain the 2006 level of loss in 2007. Failure to do so or to devise additional measures to counteract theft and vandalism may result in substantial theft and vandalism losses, harming our results of operations. In the past we have had crime insurance to reimburse us for losses that exceed certain deductible levels. Since July 1, 2005, due to increases in both the deductible level and the cost of the insurance, we have insured only against catastrophic cash losses. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock We do not plan to pay dividends on our common stock. We do not plan to declare dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future and, in any event, under the terms of our credit facility with GSO Origination Funding Partners LP and other lenders are prohibited from doing so. Our charter documents and Oregon law may inhibit a takeover that shareholders may consider favorable. The Oregon Business Corporation Act, our restated articles of incorporation and our restated bylaws contain provisions that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company or our management that shareholders may consider favorable or beneficial, which could reduce the value of your investment. These provisions could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for shareholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions include: • authorization to issue “blank check” preferred stock, which is preferred stock that can be created by our board of directors without prior shareholder approval and with rights senior to those of common stock; • a classified board of directors, so that it could take three successive annual meetings to replace all directors; • authority for directors to establish the size of the board of directors without shareholder approval; • a requirement of a 75% vote of shareholders to remove a director for cause; • a requirement of a 75% vote of shareholders for business combinations with a 5% or greater shareholder that is not approved by our board of directors, with only limited exceptions; and • an advance notice requirement for shareholder proposals. We have not selected a new independent registered public accounting firm for 2007 and if we do not engage a new independent registered public accounting firm promptly, we will not be able to file periodic reports as required by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). We have not yet selected a new independent registered public accounting firm for 2007 to replace PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, which has declined to stand for reappointment. Although we have begun a selection process for a new independent registered public accounting firm which we anticipate we will be able to conclude in the near future, if we do not engage a new independent registered public accounting firm promptly, we will not be able to file periodic reports under the Exchange Act. A failure to file periodic reports may cause us to be delisted from the Nasdaq National Market. See “Risk Factors – Risks Relating to our Common Stock – We may in the future be delisted from the Nasdaq National Market if we cannot timely file our periodic reports with the SEC and this may result in an event of default under our credit facility.” It may also subject us to SEC enforcement action. 13 Table of Contents We may in the future be delisted from The Nasdaq National Market if we cannot timely file our periodic reports with the SEC and this may result in an event of default under our credit facility. Due to our financial difficulties and the sales of our various businesses, we did not timely file our quarterly report for our third quarter of 2006 and did not timely file our annual report for 2006. These failures, or any further failures, to file could result in SEC enforcement action and a delisting from Nasdaq. The late filing of our third quarter Form 10-Q resulted in Nasdaq National Market notifying us of its intent to delist our common stock. We appealed the notice and filed our Form 10-Q, resulting in Nasdaq’s determination not to delist us. However, the late filing of this Form 10-K has resulted in another notice from Nasdaq National Market of its intent to delist us. We have appealed this notice. Because this is the second time Nasdaq has acted to delist us for failure to timely file a periodic report, we cannot assure you that Nasdaq will continue our listing even though we filed our annual report subsequent to receiving the Nasdaq notice. Should our common stock be delisted, and no other automated interdealer quotation system or securities exchange be available to us for listing our common stock, a shareholder’s ability to dispose of his or her shares could be significantly impaired, and the price of our common stock could be significantly reduced. Additionally, a failure to maintain the listing of our shares on the Nasdaq National Market constitutes an event of default under our credit facility. In the event of a default under our credit agreement, the lenders could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and other fees, to be due and payable, and to require us to apply all of our available cash to repay these borrowings. See “Risks Related to our Business Generally – The terms of our credit agreement may restrict our current and future operating and financial flexibility.” ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 