ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Factors That May Affect Future Performance. We operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment that involves numerous risks and uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. In addition, we and our clients are affected by global economic conditions. The following section discusses many, but not all, of these risks and uncertainties, but is not intended to be all-inclusive. Risks related to our business Our operating results could be negatively impacted by the current global credit crisis and the economic downturn. Our business is impacted by general economic conditions, both domestic and abroad. The current global credit crisis and economic downturn may negatively and materially affect demand for our products and services. This downturn could materially and adversely affect our business, including the ability to maintain client retention, wallet retention and consulting utilization rates, achieve contract value and consulting backlog growth, and attract attendees and exhibitors to our events. Such developments could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We face significant competition and our failure to compete successfully could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We face direct competition from a significant number of independent providers of information products and services, including information available on the Internet free of charge. We also compete indirectly against consulting firms and other information providers, including electronic and print media companies, some of which may have greater financial, information gathering and marketing resources than we do. These indirect competitors could also choose to compete directly with us in the future. In addition, limited barriers to entry exist in the markets in which we do business. As a result, additional new competitors may emerge and existing competitors may start to provide additional or complementary services. Additionally, technological advances may provide increased competition from a variety of sources. While we believe the breadth and depth of our research assets position us well versus our competition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully compete against current and future competitors and our failure to do so could result in loss of market share, diminished value in our products and services, reduced pricing and increased marketing expenditures. Furthermore, we may not be successful if we cannot compete effectively on quality of research and analysis, timely delivery of information, customer service, and the ability to offer products to meet changing market needs for information and analysis, or price. We may not be able to maintain our existing products and services. We operate in a rapidly evolving market, and our success depends upon our ability to deliver high quality and timely research and analysis to our clients. Any failure to continue to provide credible and reliable information that is useful to our clients could have a material adverse effect on future business and operating results. Further, if our predictions prove to be wrong or are not substantiated by appropriate research, our reputation may suffer and demand for our products and services may decline. In addition, we must continue to improve our methods for delivering our products and services in a cost-effective manner. Failure to increase and improve our electronic delivery capabilities could adversely affect our future business and operating results. We may not be able to enhance and develop our existing products and services, or introduce the new products and services, that are needed to remain competitive. The market for our products and services is characterized by rapidly changing needs for information and analysis on the IT industry as a whole. The development of new products is a complex and time-consuming process. Nonetheless, to maintain our competitive position, we must continue to enhance and improve our products and services, develop or acquire new products and services, deliver all products and services in a timely manner, and appropriately position and price new products and services relative to the marketplace and our costs of producing them. Any failure to achieve successful client acceptance of new products and services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. Additionally, significant delays in new product or services releases or significant problems in creating new products or services could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial position. 7 Table of Contents We depend on renewals of subscription-based services and sales of new subscription-based services for a significant portion of our revenue, and our failure to renew at historical rates or generate new sales of such services could lead to a decrease in our revenues. A large portion of our success depends on our ability to generate renewals of our subscription-based research products and services and new sales of such products and services, both to new clients and existing clients. These products and services constituted 60% and 58% of our revenues for 2008 and 2007, respectively. Generating new sales of our subscription-based products and services, both to new and existing clients, is often a time consuming process. If we are unable to generate new sales, due to competition or other factors, our revenues will be adversely affected. Our research subscription agreements have terms that generally range from twelve to thirty months. Our ability to maintain contract renewals is subject to numerous factors, including the following: • delivering high-quality and timely analysis and advice to our clients; • understanding and anticipating market trends and the changing needs of our clients; and • delivering products and services of the quality and timeliness necessary to withstand competition. Additionally, as we implement our strategy to realign our business to client needs, we may shift the type and pricing of our products which may impact client renewal rates. While research client retention rates were 82% at both December 31, 2008 and 2007, there can be no guarantee that we will continue to maintain this rate of client renewals. We depend on non-recurring consulting engagements and our failure to secure new engagements could lead to a decrease in our revenues. Consulting segment revenues constituted 27% of our total revenues for 2008 and 28% for 2007. These consulting engagements typically are project-based and non-recurring. Our ability to replace consulting engagements is subject to numerous factors, including the following: • delivering consistent, high-quality consulting services to our clients; • tailoring our consulting services to the changing needs of our clients; and • our ability to match the skills and competencies of our consulting staff to the skills required for the fulfillment of existing or potential consulting engagements. Any material decline in our ability to replace consulting arrangements could have an adverse impact on our revenues and our financial condition. The profitability and success of our conferences, symposia and events could be adversely affected by external factors beyond our control. The market for desirable dates and locations for conferences, symposia and events is highly competitive. If we cannot secure desirable dates and locations for our conferences, symposia and events their profitability could suffer, and our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, because our events are scheduled in advance and held at specific locations, the success of these events can be affected by circumstances outside of our control, such as labor strikes, transportation shutdowns and travel restrictions, economic slowdowns, terrorist attacks, weather, natural disasters and other world events impacting the global economy, the occurrence of any of which could negatively impact the success of the event. Our sales to governments are subject to appropriations and may be terminated. We derive revenues from contracts with the U.S. government, state and local governments, and their respective agencies, as well as foreign governments and their agencies. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, $192.0 million and $190.0 million, respectively, of our Research contract value and Consulting backlog was attributable to governments. Our U.S. government contracts are subject to the approval of appropriations by the U.S. Congress to fund the agencies contracting for our services, and our contracts at the state and local levels are subject to various government authorizations and funding mechanisms. In general, most if not all of these contracts 8 Table of Contents may be terminated at any time without cause (‘termination for convenience”). Should appropriations for the governments and agencies that contract with us be curtailed, or should government contracts be terminated for convenience, we may experience a significant loss of revenue. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel which could jeopardize the quality of our products and services. Our success depends heavily upon the quality of our senior management, research analysts, consultants, sales and other key personnel. We face competition for the limited pool of these qualified professionals from, among others, technology companies, market research firms, consulting firms, financial services companies and electronic and print media companies, some of which have a greater ability to attract and compensate these professionals. Some of the personnel that we attempt to hire are subject to non-compete agreements that could impede our short-term recruitment efforts. Any failure to retain key personnel or hire and train additional qualified personnel as required to support the evolving needs of clients or growth in our business, could adversely affect the quality of our products and services, as well as future business and operating results. We may not be able to maintain the equity in our brand name. We believe that our “Gartner” brand, including our independence, is critical to our efforts to attract and retain clients and that the importance of brand recognition will increase as competition increases. We may expand our marketing activities to promote and strengthen the Gartner brand and may need to increase our marketing budget, hire additional marketing and public relations personnel, expend additional sums to protect the brand and otherwise increase expenditures to create and maintain client brand loyalty. If we fail to effectively promote and maintain the Gartner brand, or incur excessive expenses in doing so, our future business and operating results could be adversely impacted. Our international operations expose us to a variety of operational risks which could negatively impact our future revenue and growth. We have clients in over 80 countries and a significant part of our revenue comes from international sales. Our operating results are subject to the risks inherent in international business activities, including general political and economic conditions in each country, changes in market demand as a result of tariffs and other trade barriers, challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations, changes in regulatory requirements, compliance with numerous foreign laws and regulations, differences between U.S. and foreign tax rates and laws, and the difficulty of enforcing client agreements, collecting accounts receivable and protecting intellectual property rights in international jurisdictions. Furthermore, we rely on local distributors or sales agents in some international locations. If any of these arrangements are terminated by our agent or us, we may not be able to replace the arrangement on beneficial terms or on a timely basis, or clients of the local distributor or sales agent may not want to continue to do business with us or our new agent. Our international operations expose us to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Approximately 47% and 45% of our revenues for 2008 and 2007, respectively, were derived from sales outside of the U.S. Revenues earned outside the U.S. are typically transacted in local currencies, which may fluctuate significantly against the dollar. While we may use forward exchange contracts to a limited extent to seek to mitigate foreign currency risk, our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations. Catastrophic events or geo-political conditions may disrupt our business. A disruption or failure of our systems or operations in the event of a major weather event, cyber-attack, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event could cause delays in completing sales, providing services, or performing other mission-critical functions. Our corporate headquarters is located approximately 30 miles from New York City, and we have an operations center located in Ft. Myers, Florida, in a hurricane-prone area. We also operate in numerous international locations. A catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or information technology systems could harm our ability to conduct normal business operations and negatively impact our operating results. Abrupt political change, terrorist activity, and armed conflict pose a risk of general economic disruption in affected countries, which may increase our operating costs. Additionally, these conditions also may add uncertainty to the timing and budget decisions of our clients. 9 Table of Contents We may experience outages and disruptions of our online services if we fail to maintain an adequate operations infrastructure. Our increasing user traffic and complexity of our products and services demand more computing power. We have spent and expect to continue to spend substantial amounts to maintain data centers and equipment and to upgrade our technology and network infrastructure to handle increased traffic on our websites. However, any inefficiencies or operational failures could diminish the quality of our products, services, and user experience, resulting in damage to our reputation and loss of current and potential users, subscribers, and advertisers, harming our operating results and financial condition. Our outstanding debt obligations could impact our financial condition or future operating results. At December 31, 2008, we had $416.3 million outstanding under our Credit Agreement, which provides for two amortizing term loans with quarterly payments and a $300.0 million revolving credit facility. The revolving credit facility may be increased up to an additional $100.0 million at our lenders’ discretion (the “expansion feature”), for a total revolving credit facility of $400.0 million. However, the $100.0 million expansion feature may or may not be available to us depending upon prevailing credit market conditions. The affirmative, negative and financial covenants of the Credit Agreement could limit our future financial flexibility. Additionally, a failure to comply with these covenants could result in acceleration of all amounts outstanding under the Credit Agreement, which would materially impact our financial condition unless accommodations could be negotiated with our lenders. No assurance can be given that we would be successful in doing so in this current financial climate, or that any accommodations that we were able to negotiate would be on terms as favorable as those presently contained in the Credit Agreement. The associated debt service costs of the borrowing arrangement under our Credit Agreement could impair our future operating results. The outstanding debt may limit the amount of cash or additional credit available to us, which could restrain our ability to expand or enhance products and services, respond to competitive pressures or pursue future business opportunities requiring substantial investments of additional capital. We may require additional cash resources which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. We believe that our existing cash balances, projected cash flow from operations, and the remaining borrowing capacity we have under our five-year revolving credit facility will be sufficient for our expected short-term and foreseeable long-term operating needs. We may, however, require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions, implementation of our strategy and stock repurchase program, to repay indebtedness or to pursue future business opportunities requiring substantial investments of additional capital. If our existing financial resources are insufficient to satisfy our requirements, we may seek additional borrowings. Prevailing credit market conditions may negatively affect debt availability and cost, and, as a result, financing may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. In addition, the incurrence of additional indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could require us to agree to operating and financial covenants that would further restrict our operations. If we are unable to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights our competitive position may be harmed. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, trade secret, confidentiality, non-compete and other contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, unauthorized third parties may obtain and use technology or other information that we regard as proprietary. Our intellectual property rights may not survive a legal challenge to their validity or provide significant protection for us. The laws of certain countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Accordingly, we may not be able to protect our intellectual property against unauthorized third-party copying or use, which could adversely affect our competitive position. Our employees are subject to non-compete agreements. When the non-competition period expires, former employees may compete against us. If a former employee chooses to compete against us prior to the expiration of the non-competition period, we seek to enforce these non-compete provisions but there is no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts. We have grown, and may continue to grow, through acquisitions and strategic investments, which could involve substantial risks. We have made and may continue to make acquisitions of, or significant investments in, businesses that offer complementary products and services. The risks involved in each acquisition or investment include the possibility of paying more than the value we derive from the acquisition, dilution of the interests of our current stockholders or decreased working capital, increased indebtedness, the assumption of undisclosed liabilities and unknown and unforeseen risks, the ability to retain key personnel of the acquired company, the time to train the sales force to market and sell the products of the acquired business, the potential disruption of our ongoing business and the distraction of management from our business. The realization of any of these risks could adversely affect our business. 10 Table of Contents We face risks related to litigation. We are, and may in the future be, subject to a variety of legal actions, such as employment, breach of contract, intellectual property-related, and business torts, including claims of unfair trade practices and misappropriation of trade secrets. Given the nature of our business, we are also subject to defamation (including libel and slander), negligence, or other claims relating to the information we publish. Regardless of the merits, responding to any such claim could be time consuming, result in costly litigation and require us to enter into settlements, royalty and licensing agreements which may not be offered or available on reasonable terms. If a successful claim is made against us and we fail to settle the claim on reasonable terms, our business, results of operations or financial position could be materially adversely affected. We face risks related to taxation. We operate in numerous domestic and foreign taxing jurisdictions and our level of operations and profitability in each jurisdiction may have an impact upon the amount of income taxes that we recognize in any given year. In addition, our tax filings for various tax years are subject to audit by the tax authorities in jurisdictions where we conduct business, and in the ordinary course of business, we may be under audit by one or more tax authorities from time to time. Recently, we have been notified by the Internal Revenue Service that it intends to audit our 2007 tax return, and this audit is expected to commence shortly. These audits may result in assessments of additional taxes, and resolution of these matters involves uncertainties and there are no assurances that the ultimate resolution will not exceed the amounts we have recorded. Additionally, the results of an audit could have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made. Risks related to our common stock Our operating results may fluctuate from period to period and may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors or guidance we have given, which may cause the price of our common stock to decline. Our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate in the future as a result of many factors, including the timing of the execution of research contracts, the extent of completion of consulting engagements, the timing of symposia and other events, the amount of new business generated, the mix of domestic and international business, currency fluctuations, changes in market demand for our products and services, the timing of the development, introduction and marketing of new products and services, and competition in the industry. An inability to generate sufficient earnings and cash flow, and achieve our forecasts, may impact our operating and other activities. The potential fluctuations in our operating results could cause period-to-period comparisons of operating results not to be meaningful and may provide an unreliable indication of future operating results. Furthermore, our operating results may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors in the future or guidance we have given. If this occurs, the price of our stock would likely decline. Our stock price may be volatile, and you may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid. The trading prices of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to, among other factors, variations in operating results, developments in the industries in which we do business, general economic conditions, general market conditions, changes in the nature and composition of our stockholder base, changes in securities analysts’ recommendations regarding our securities and our performance relative to securities analysts’ expectations for any quarterly period. Such volatility may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could lower our stock price. Sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock in the public market by our current stockholders, or the threat that substantial sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease significantly or make it difficult for us to raise additional capital by selling stock. Furthermore, we have various equity incentive plans that provide for awards in the form of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units and other stock-based awards. As of December 31, 2008, the aggregate number of shares of our common stock issuable pursuant to outstanding grants and awards under these plans was approximately 11.1 million shares (approximately 6.7 million of which have vested). In addition, approximately 5.8 million shares may be issued in connection with future awards under our equity incentive plans. Shares of common stock issued under these plans are freely transferable without further registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), except for any shares held by affiliates (as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act). We cannot predict the size of future issuances of 11 Table of Contents our common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock. Interests of certain of our significant stockholders may conflict with yours. ValueAct Capital and affiliates (“ValueAct”) owned approximately 22.1% of our common stock as of December 31, 2008, while Silver Lake Partners and affiliates (“Silver Lake”) owned approximately 12.8% on the same date. To our knowledge, three other institutional investors each presently hold over 5% of our common stock. Additionally, representatives of Silver Lake and ValueAct in the aggregate presently hold three seats on our Board of Directors. While no stockholder or institutional investor individually holds a majority of our outstanding shares, these significant stockholders may be able, either individually or acting together, to exercise significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, amendment of our certificate of incorporation, adoption or amendment of equity plans and approval of significant transactions such as mergers, acquisitions, consolidations and sales or purchases of assets. In addition, in the event of a proposed acquisition of the company by a third party, this concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change of control in the Company. Accordingly, the interests of these stockholders may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders, or otherwise be in the best interests of the Company or all stockholders. Our anti-takeover protections may discourage or prevent a change of control, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law may make it difficult for any party to acquire control of us in a transaction not approved by our Board of Directors. These provisions include: • the ability of our Board of Directors to issue and determine the terms of preferred stock; • advance notice requirements for inclusion of stockholder proposals at stockholder meetings; • a preferred shares rights agreement; and • the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law. These provisions could discourage or prevent a change of control or change in management that might provide stockholders with a premium to the market price of their common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. There are no unresolved written comments that were received from the SEC staff 180 days or more before the end of our fiscal year relating to our periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act. 