ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We operate in a business environment that involves substantial risk and uncertainty. The following section of this report identifies some of the risks that could cause, or contribute to, actual results differing materially from expectations or past performance. We caution readers to pay particular attention to the risk descriptions. If the risks described below actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and we may have to consider various alternative business contingencies based upon the specific risk that is triggered. Risks Related to Our Business Our sales depend on transaction fees from our network of ATMs and a decline in either transaction volume or the level of transaction fees could reduce our sales and harm our operating results. Our operating results depend on both transaction volume and the amount of the transaction fees we receive from our ATM network. Our transaction volume and fees depend principally upon: • our ability to replace sites lost through non-renewal or termination of our contracts by merchants in whose stores we currently have placed our ATMs; • competition, which can result in over-served markets, reduced opportunities to secure placement of our machines, and pressure to both reduce existing fee structures and increase sales commissions to merchants; • our ability to service, maintain and repair, and deliver cash to ATMs in our network promptly and efficiently; • continued market acceptance of our services; and • government regulation and network adjustment of our fees. If our transaction volume or the level of transaction fees we receive decrease, our sales could decline, which would impact our operating results. The proliferation of payment options other than cash, including credit cards, debit cards, and stored-value cards, could result in a reduced need for cash in the marketplace and could result in a decline in the usage of our ATMs. In the last two decades consumers in the United States have more alternatives in which to make payments for purchases other than cash and checks. The use of credit cards, debit cards and retail stored-value/gift cards have become common place and many merchants now offer zero-charge cash back availability when making purchases. The continued growth in these alternative payment methods could result in a reduced need for cash in the marketplace and ultimately, a decline in the usage of our ATMs. Interchange fees, which comprise a substantial portion of our transaction revenues, could decrease as a result of the EFT networks, through which our transactions are routed, decreasing their per transaction rate or increasing their fees. Interchange fees represented approximately 20.6% of our total ATM transaction revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010. The fees are earned and collected from the various EFT networks for transactions conducted on our ATMs. Interchange fees are set by each network and typically vary by network. Accordingly, if some or all of the networks through which our ATM transactions are routed were to reduce the interchange rates paid to us or increase their transaction fees charged to us for routing transactions across their network, or both, our future transaction revenues could decline. During 2010, certain networks reduced the net interchange fees paid to ATM deployers for transactions routed through their networks. When contractually allowable, we pass these fee and rate changes through to our customers as a reduction in commissions paid. We have taken steps to change the terms of our base contract for new customers to earn revenue on a fee per transaction which will insulate us from changes in rules from the EFT networks. We still may experience an adverse affect to our revenue on contracts that we cannot pass the fees along to our customers. We can give no assurances that we will be successful in offsetting the effects of any future reductions in the interchange fees received by us, if and when they occur. 8 TABLE OF CONTENTS If merchant-owned ATM customers terminate their relationships with us prior to the termination of their contracts or do not renew their contracts upon their expiration, it could reduce our ATM sales. Although our merchant-owned ATM customers have multi-year contracts with us for transaction processing services, due to competition, some of these customers may leave us for our competitors prior to the expiration of their contracts, or may not renew their contracts upon their expiration. If a material number of merchant-owned ATM customers end their relationships with us, it could cause a material reduction in our ATM sales. The ATM market is highly competitive, which could limit our growth or reduce our sales. Persons seeking ATM services have numerous choices. These choices include ATMs offered by banks or other financial institutions and ATMs offered by IADs such as us. Some of our competitors offer services directly comparable to ours while others are only indirect competitors. We believe that there will be continued consolidation in the ATM industry in the United States. New competitors could emerge and acquire significant market share. This competition could prevent us from obtaining or maintaining desirable locations, reduce the transaction volume on our machines, affect the transaction fee levels we charge or require us to increase our merchants’ share of transaction fees thus lowering our profit margin. The occurrence of any of these factors could limit our growth or reduce our sales and income. If we, our transaction processors, our EFTNs or our other service providers experience system failures, the ATM products and services we provide could be delayed or interrupted, which would harm our business. Our ability to provide reliable service depends largely on the efficient and uninterrupted operations of our transaction processors, EFTNs and other service providers. Any significant interruptions could severely harm our business and reputation and result in a loss of sales. If we cause any such interruption, we could lose the confidence of merchants under contract with us and or damage our relationships with them. Our systems and operations, and those of our transaction processors, EFTNs and other service providers, could be exposed to damage or interruption from fire, natural disaster, unlawful acts, terrorist attacks, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry and computer viruses. We cannot be certain that any measures we and our service providers have taken to prevent system failures will be successful or that we will not experience service interruptions. Further, our property and business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses or failures that may occur. We rely on EFTNs and transaction processors; if we cannot renew our agreements with them, if they are unable to perform their services effectively, or if they decrease the level of the transaction fees we receive, it could harm our business. We rely on several EFTNs and transaction processors to provide card authorization, data capture and settlement services to us and our merchant customers. Any inability on our part to renew our agreements with these or similar service providers or their failure to provide their services efficiently and effectively may damage our relationships with our merchants and may permit those merchants to terminate their agreements with us. Our ATM net sales are dependent upon the transaction fees we receive through EFTNs. If one or more of the EFTNs in which we participate reduces the transaction fees it pays us, and we are unable to route transactions to other EFTNs to replace them, our ATM net sales could be reduced. We could lose access to vault cash used to fill our placement ATMs under a cash provisioning agreement. We obtain cash, which we call vault cash, to fill ATMs which we are responsible for cash management, through a cash provisioning agreement with ELAN Financial Services. If our cash provisioning agreement is terminated, we may be unable to obtain cash from alternative sources to fulfill our cash managed ATMs. If we do not have access to vault cash we would have to suspend the operations of those ATMs under cash management and our operating results would be negatively impacted. 9 TABLE OF CONTENTS Increases in interest rates will increase our expenses. We have a cash provisioning agreement with a financial institution that supplies the vault cash for ATMs that we cash manage. This cash provisioning agreement includes a variable interest rate formula under which we are charged for the use of cash. An increase in the prime interest rate would increase our operating costs and expenses. We rely on third parties to service and deliver cash to our ATMs. If they fail to provide these services timely and effectively, our operations and reputation could be damaged and our transaction volume could be impacted. Our success depends upon the proper functioning of our ATMs. We rely on third-party service providers over whom we have no control, to service and deliver cash to our ATMs. If our third-party service providers fail to service or deliver cash to our ATMs properly or fail to respond quickly to problems, we may lose customers which will decrease our transaction volume and adversely affect our ability to generate income. Additionally if our third-party service providers fail to service or deliver cash to our ATMs, our reputation and ability to grow can be impaired. Changes in technology standards may cause us to incur substantial expense in upgrading or replacing our ATMs and could reduce use of ATMs and reduce our sales. New technology in the ATM industry may result in machines under our management becoming obsolete. This may require us or the merchants in our networks who own their machines, to either replace or upgrade existing equipment. Any replacement or upgrade program for machines that we own or that we must upgrade or replace under contracts with merchant owners would involve substantial expense. A failure to either replace or upgrade obsolete machines could result in customers using other ATM networks that could employ newer technology, thereby reducing our sales and reducing or eliminating our gross profit and income. Depending upon the scope and scale of potential changes in technology, we may not have sufficient capital to provide upgrades or replacements to a significant degree. This could impact our operating results. The terms of our credit agreements may restrict our current and future operating and financial flexibility. The agreements that are in effect with respect to our debt include covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: • engage in mergers, consolidations and asset dispositions; • pay dividends on or redeem or repurchase stock; • merge into or consolidate with any third party; • create, incur, assume or guarantee additional indebtedness; • create, incur, assume or permit any liens on any asset; • make loans and investments; • engage in transactions with affiliates; • prepay, redeem or repurchase subordinated indebtedness; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; • make asset or property dispositions outside the normal course of business; and • change the nature of our business. Our credit agreements also contains covenants that require us to: • maintain a certain fixed Charge Coverage ratio; • maintain a certain level of minimum liquidity; and • maintain a funded debt to EBITDA ratio. 10 TABLE OF CONTENTS A failure to comply with the covenants under our credit agreement could result in an event of default. In the event of a default our lender could elect to declare all borrowings, accrued and unpaid interest and other fees outstanding, due and payable, and require us to apply all of our available cash to repay these borrowings. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business, remain in compliance with debt covenants, and make payments on our indebtedness. As of December 31, 2010, we had outstanding indebtedness of approximately $18.7 million. Our substantial indebtedness could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including financial and other restrictive covenants, could result in an event of; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow in the future to pay principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and in the industry in which we operate; • make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions, and adverse changes in government regulation; and • limit our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our growth strategy, or other purposes. Our recent financial results may not be an indicator of our future results. Based on our restructuring efforts over the past three years, operating history and historical financial results, the projections of our future sales and operating expenses are limited to the indicators and knowledge we have currently. Our planned expense levels are based in part on expectations concerning future sales which are difficult to forecast accurately based on uncertainties related to competition and our ability to successfully generate new business. We may be limited in our ability to adjust costs to compensate for unexpected shortfalls in sales. If our computer system was to suffer a significant interruption, our ability to perform recordkeeping, accounting and statistical analysis functions could be adversely impacted and result in a loss of income and customers. Our ability to service our customers depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer system. Any significant interruptions could severely harm our business and result in a loss of customers. Our system and operations could be exposed to damage or interruption from fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry and computer viruses. Although we have our system and operational data mirrored and available for restore, we cannot be certain that this can be done in a timely manner or that we would be successful and that we would not experience additional system failures. Although we have property and business interruption insurance, it may not be adequate to cover damages or loss of sales that may occur. Because of reported instances of fraudulent use of ATMs, including the use of electronic devices to scan ATM card information, or skimming, legislation is pending that would require state or federal licensing and background checks of ATM operators and would regulate the deployment and operation of ATMs. There are proposals pending in some jurisdictions that would require merchants that are not financial institutions to be licensed in order to maintain an ATM on their premises; some jurisdictions currently require such licensing. New licensing, deployment or operating requirements could increase our cost of doing business in those markets. Any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. If we do not have sufficient earnings to service our debt, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or sell securities, none of which we can guarantee we will be able to do. 11 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our business has been and may continue to be affected by the recent economic downturn. The continued instability in the global economic downturn and financial market instability have had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, access to funding and the trading price of our common stock. The continued global economic instability has adversely affected unemployment rates, consumer spending, consumer indebtedness, availability of consumer credit, asset values, investments and liquidity. These factors, along with an already high level of consumer indebtedness, have adversely affected the ability and willingness of individuals to spend money, thus resulting in a lower ATM transaction volume. The willingness of individuals to access cash from ATMs could continue to be adversely affected, thus lowering transaction volume, which may materially adversely affect our profitability. Risks Related to Our Industry Changes in Regulations under the Americans with Disabilities Act could require us to incur substantial additional expenses which could adversely impact our profitability. The U.S. Department of Justice has issued new regulations under the Americans with Disabilities Act (“ADA”) that become effective in March 2012. The ADA standards regulate the amount of clear floor space required in front of each ATM, prescribe the maximum height and reach depth of each ATM and requires capabilities, instructions, and information concerning the use of an ATM by individuals who are visually and hearing impaired and/or wheelchair bound. We have been preparing for these new regulations by purchasing and deploying ATMs that meet the standards in the regulations and do not anticipate an adverse impact related to our full-placement machines. We are working with our merchants who have machines that do not meet the standards to purchase new units that meet the ADA requirements. Our ATM business operates in a changing and unpredictable regulatory environment. ATM withdrawal transactions involve the electronic transfer of funds through EFTNs. The United States Electronic Funds Transfer Act provides the basic framework establishing the rights, liabilities and responsibilities of participants in EFTNs. In addition, there have been various state and local efforts to ban, limit or otherwise regulate ATM transaction fees, which make up a large portion of our sales. For example, in Tennessee, Nebraska and Iowa only bank-sponsored ATMs can impose withdrawal fees. As a result, in these states we must make arrangements with a local bank to act as a sponsor of ATMs in our networks, which typically involves additional documentation costs and payment of a fee to the bank. Any limitation to our ability to charge withdrawal fees in areas where we have a concentration of ATMs could reduce our ATM sales and reduce the incentive that merchants would have to keep ATMs in our network on their premises. If existing regulations are made more restrictive or new regulations are enacted, we could also incur significant expense to comply with them. Anti-money laundering legislation could cause us to lose some merchant accounts, thus reducing our revenues. Recent concerns expressed by the United States federal government regarding the use of ATMs to launder money could lead to the imposition of additional regulations on our sponsoring financial institutions and our merchant customers regarding the source of cash loaded into their ATMs. In particular, individual merchants who load their own cash could incur additional costs thereby making their ATMs less profitable. Some merchants may decide to discontinue their ATM operations if burdensome regulations are enacted and enforced, thus reducing the number of merchant-owned accounts that we currently manage. If such a reduction were to occur, we would see a corresponding decrease in our revenues and income. Potential new currency designs may require modifications to our ATMs that could severely impact our cash flows. On November 26, 2006, a U.S. District Court judge ruled that the United States’ currencies (as currently designed) violate the Rehabilitation Act, a law that prohibits discrimination in government programs on the basis of disability, as the paper currencies issued by the United States are identical in size and color, 12 TABLE OF CONTENTS regardless of denomination. Due to this ruling, the United States Treasury conducted a study to determine the options to make United States paper currency accessible to the blind or visually impaired. It is our understanding that the Bureau of Engraving and Printing received that study on or about July 28, 2009, and together with the United States Treasury and the Federal Reserve, are reviewing the study. Upon the completion of their review, these institutions will publish recommendations and seek public comments on those recommendations. Following the public comment period, a final recommendation will be made to the Secretary of the Treasury, who has authority to change the design and features of the currency notes utilized in the United States. While it is still uncertain at this time what impact, if any, this process will have on the ATM industry (including us), it is possible that any changes made to the design of the paper currency notes utilized in the United States could require us to incur additional costs to modify our ATMs in order to store and dispense such notes. The majority of the electronic debit networks over which our transactions are conducted require sponsorship by a bank. We are required to have bank sponsorship in order to process transactions over the networks on which our transactions occur. We are currently sponsored by two banks driven by our processing vendor relationships. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock We have never paid dividends on our common stock and we do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock. Any payment of cash dividends in the future will depend upon our earnings, if any, financial condition and capital requirements. We do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. In addition, we have executed certain loan agreements which prohibit the payment of a dividend on our common stock as long as such agreements are in place. Accordingly, any potential investor who anticipates the need for current dividends from its investment should not purchase any of our securities. Our common stock is thinly traded and the price of our common stock may experience price volatility. Our common stock is currently traded over-the-counter on the OTC Bulletin Board. There can be no assurance that an active market for our shares will develop or, if developed, will be sustained. Absent an active public trading market, an investor may be unable to liquidate its investment. We believe that factors such as the announcements of the availability of new services and new contracts by us or our competitors, quarterly fluctuations in our financial results and general conditions in the economy could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. If stockholders seek to sell their shares in a thinly traded stock, it may be difficult to obtain the price desired. In addition, stock markets have experienced extreme price volatility in recent years. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. Our share ownership is highly concentrated. Our directors, officers and principal stockholders, and certain of their affiliates, beneficially own approximately 63.8% of our common stock (assuming the exercise or conversion of any options, warrants or other convertible securities) and will continue to have significant influence over the outcome of all matters submitted to the stockholders for approval, including the election of our directors. In addition, such influence by management could have the effect of discouraging others from attempting to take control of us, thereby increasing the likelihood that the market price of our common stock will not reflect a premium for control. The influx of additional shares of our common stock onto the market may create downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. We recently issued 10,636,364 shares of restricted common stock in connection with the refinancing of our outstanding indebtedness and agreed to file a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission to register the public resale of such shares. These restricted securities may also become eligible 13 TABLE OF CONTENTS for public resale pursuant to SEC Rule 144, or other applicable exemptions from registration under the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws. Generally, SEC Rule 144 provides that a person who has held restricted securities for a prescribed period may, under certain conditions, publicly resell such shares as early as six months after the date of issuance of such shares. The availability of a large number of shares for sale to the public and the sale of such shares in public markets could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Corporate governance requirements are likely to increase our costs and make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified directors. We are subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“SOX”), as well as rules adopted pursuant to that legislation by the SEC. We expect that these and other new laws, rules and regulations will continue to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and place a significant burden on management. We also expect that new regulatory requirements will make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. We may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur significantly higher premium costs to obtain coverage. These new requirements are also likely to make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve as members of our board of directors or committees of the board, particularly the audit committee. We may need to hire additional personnel and/or engage outside consulting firms to assist in our efforts to comply with Section 404 of SOX. Any failure to improve our internal accounting controls or other problems with our control systems could result in delays or inaccuracies in reporting financial information or non-compliance with SEC reporting and other regulatory requirements, any of which could adversely affect our business and stock price. Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware could discourage takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following: • Our board of directors has the right to appoint directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which would prevent stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors. • Stockholders must provide advance notice to nominate individuals for election to the board of directors or to propose matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting. These provisions may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer’s own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company. • Our board of directors is classified into three separate classes, meaning that it could take three successive annual meetings to replace all directors. • Members of our board of directors may only be removed for cause by the affirmative vote of the holders of 75% of our outstanding shares. • Our board of directors may issue, without stockholder approval, shares of preferred stock. The ability to issue preferred stock makes it possible for our board of directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire us. • As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain Delaware anti-takeover provisions. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. Our board of directors could rely on Delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us. • A business combination with a shareholder owning at least 5% of our outstanding stock must be approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of our outstanding shares, subject to certain limited exceptions. 14 TABLE OF CONTENTS 