ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business Generally We are uncertain whether our operations can generate sufficient cash to comply with the covenants of our loan agreements and to pay our obligations on an ongoing basis. We incurred a net loss of $120.1 million in 2006 and $8.4 million in 2007. As a result of our financial performance for the three months ended September 30, 2006, we failed to meet certain financial covenants of our financing agreements with GSO Origination Funding Partners LP and other lenders. On November 20, 2006 we entered into amendments that restructured our loans and waived the failure to meet the loan covenants. Under the restructured loan agreements principal payments of $69.9 million were due in the first quarter of 2007. During the first six months of 2007 we sold our Canadian, United Kingdom and German ATM businesses and our United States and Canadian photocopy businesses and used $98.6 million from the proceeds of those sales to make principal and interest payments under these loans. Following these payments, as of June 30, 2007, the only remaining balance under our term loans and line of credit was $1.9 million on our Term Loan B. As of December 31, 2007, we also owed $5.3 million pursuant to a settlement agreement with the purchaser of our United Kingdom and German ATM businesses and $2.5 million pursuant to the settlement agreement with eFunds Corporation to terminate the MSA. We borrowed $1.0 million pursuant to an agreement with LC Capital Master Fund, Ltd. and Lampe Conway & Co., LLC in February 2008 which provided cash to make a £380,000 payment due on the United Kingdom settlement agreement and have begun efforts to finance the debt payable under the eFunds settlement agreement. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to obtain further financing on satisfactory terms, or at all. We are uncertain whether our operations can generate sufficient cash to pay our obligations on an ongoing basis. There are cross-default provisions in TRM Inventory Funding Trust’s Loan and Servicing Agreement and our Securities Purchase Agreement with LC Capital Master Fund, Ltd. and Lampe Conway & Co., LLC, which we refer to as the Lampe Facility, whereby if we fail to comply with the covenants of our restructured loan agreements and are declared to be in default by GSO Origination Funding Partners LP and other lenders, we may be declared in default of the provisions of the Loan and Servicing Agreement and the Securities Purchase Agreement as well, and the lenders may demand payment. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability and classification of recorded asset amounts or the amounts and classification of liabilities that may be necessary should we be unable to continue as a going concern. 5 Our continuation as a going concern is contingent upon our ability to generate sufficient cash to pay our obligations on an ongoing basis. We currently do not comply with several of the covenants in our loan agreement with GSO which may result in a default under our vault cash facility and allow our lenders to accelerate our loans. A failure to obtain waivers of these defaults or obtain new financing can cause significant impairment of our ability to conduct our operations. We are currently in default of several financial and other covenants under our financing agreements with GSO Origination Funding Partners LP and other lenders. As a result, GSO has the right to declare us in default and accelerate the maturity of the facility. Moreover, because of cross-default provisions under our vault cash facility, a declaration of default by GSO would entitle the vault cash lender to terminate our vault cash facility. The Lampe Facility also contains cross default provisions whereby upon a default, LC Capital Master Fund, Ltd. can accelerate the maturity of our debt under the Lampe Facility, subject to a 180-day standstill with respect to any default or acceleration under the facility with GSO Origination Funding Partners LP and the other lenders. See “Risks Related to our Business Generally – The terms of our credit agreement may restrict our current and future operating and financial flexibility.” It is unlikely that we will be able to cure the defaults within the foreseeable future. If we are unable to obtain further waivers from GSO, or to replace the GSO facility with new financing, our ability to conduct our operations could be significantly impaired and we may not be able to continue as a going concern. We could be liable for sales price adjustments and warranty/indemnification claims relating to businesses we sold in 2006 and 2007. In 2006 and 2007 we sold our ATM businesses in the United Kingdom, Germany and Canada, and our photocopy businesses in the United Kingdom, United States and Canada in five separate transactions. In connection with each of these sales, we have made various representations and warranties and/or provided indemnities. The sales prices are subject to adjustment based on working capital amounts, the value of accounts receivable as of the closing of the sale or other factors. The purchasers may make claims against us relating to the representations or warranties or provisions for adjustment of the sales prices, and those claims could be substantial. In November 2007, we entered into a settlement agreement pursuant to which we agreed to repay £3,250,000 (approximately $6.4 million using exchange rates as of December 31, 2007) as a final settlement of all claims under the agreement for the sale of our United Kingdom and German ATM businesses. Currently, none of the other purchasers are pursuing claims against us. Because we used substantially all of the net proceeds from the business sales to reduce our debt, we might not have sufficient cash to pay such claims without additional financing. The terms of our credit agreement may restrict our current and future operating and financial flexibility. As a result of our sales of our U.K., German and Canadian ATM businesses and our United Kingdom, United States and Canadian photocopy businesses, we have substantially repaid our outstanding credit facility debt. Approximately $2.1 million of that debt remains outstanding under our facility with GSO Origination Funding Partners LP and $1.0 million of debt remains outstanding under our Lampe Facility. The credit agreements that are in effect with respect to the remaining debt include a number of covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: • engage in mergers, consolidations and asset dispositions; • pay dividends on or redeem or repurchase stock; • merge into or consolidate with any third party; • create, incur, assume or guarantee additional indebtedness; • incur liens; • make loans and investments; • engage in transactions with affiliates; • prepay, redeem or repurchase subordinated indebtedness; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; 6 • make asset or property dispositions; and • change the nature of our business. Our credit agreements also contain covenants that prohibit our consolidated capital expenditures for each month from exceeding certain amounts, require that our operations result in minimum monthly EBITDA (as defined in the agreements) amounts, and that we maintain our common stock’s listing on the NASDAQ Global Market. As further discussed under “Risks Relating to Our Common Stock – We have been notified that our shares will be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market as a result of our failure to satisfy the minimum stock price requirement of the NASDAQ Global Market,” we have received a NASDAQ Staff Determination Letter stating that our shares will be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market as a result of our failure to satisfy the minimum stock price requirement of the NASDAQ Global Market. We have requested a hearing to appeal the Staff’s determination. A failure to comply with the covenants under our credit agreements could result in an event of default. In the event of a default under either of our credit agreements, the lenders of both such facilities could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and other fees, to be due and payable, and to require us to apply all of our available cash to repay these borrowings. An acceleration of maturity under our credit agreement with GSO Origination Funding Partners LP and under our Lampe Facility would result in an event of default under the TRM Inventory Funding Trust’s Loan and Servicing Agreement which is the source of cash we use in our ATMs. See “Risks Relating to Our ATM Business – We obtain our ATM vault cash under an arrangement that could cause us to lose our access to the vault cash and to fees that we have earned due to circumstances beyond our control.” If any or all of our debt were to be accelerated, we may not have sufficient liquid assets available to us to repay such indebtedness in full and the lenders may proceed against the collateral securing such indebtedness, which includes the capital stock of our subsidiaries. We have received a “going concern” opinion from our independent registered public accounting firm, which may negatively impact our business. We have received a report from McGladrey & Pullen, LLP, our independent registered public accounting firm, regarding our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2007, which included an explanatory paragraph stating that the consolidated financial statements were prepared assuming we will continue as a going concern. The report also stated that our uncertainty regarding our ability to meet our future obligations has raised substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Any failure to dispel any continuing doubts about our ability to continue as a going concern could adversely affect our ability to enter into collaborative relationships and to raise additional capital, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our sales depend on transaction fees from our network of ATMs. A decline in either transaction volume or the level of transaction fees could reduce our sales and harm our operating results. Our operating results depend on both transaction volume and the amount of the transaction fees we receive from our ATM network. Our transaction volume and fees depend principally upon: • our ability to replace sites lost through non-renewal or termination of our contracts by the merchants in whose stores we currently have placed our ATMs; • competition, which can result in over-served markets, pressure both to reduce existing fee structures and increase sales discounts to merchants and reduced opportunities to secure merchant or other placements of our machines; • our ability to service, maintain and repair ATMs in our network promptly and efficiently; • continued market acceptance of our services; and • government regulation and network adjustment of our fees. If our transaction volume or the level of transaction fees we receive decrease, our sales could decline, which would impact our operating results. 7 We have experienced significant attrition in the number of ATMs in our network. We have experienced significant attrition in the number of merchant-owned ATMs in our network that were acquired in our acquisition of the ATM business of eFunds Corporation. In 2007 the average number of transacting ATMs in our ATM network decreased by 2,125 ATMs, or 17.2%, from the average number of transacting ATMs in our ATM network during 2006 due to merchants not renewing or terminating their contracts with us. We have sought to halt this attrition through improved merchant service provided by expanded internal operations and strategic partnerships with third party service vendors including Solvport, LLC, NCR Corporation, and Diebold. This attrition has reduced and, if it continues in the future, will further reduce our sales and our ability to become profitable. If merchant-owned ATM customers terminate their relationships with us prior to the termination of their contract or do not renew their contracts upon their expiration, it could reduce our ATM sales. Although our merchant-owned ATM customers have multi-year contracts with us for transaction processing services, due to competition, some of these customers may leave us for our competitors prior to the expiration of their contracts, or may not renew their contracts upon their expiration. When this occurs, we pursue these customers to remain processing with us or alternatively, in the event they terminate their relationship with us prior to expiration of their contracts, we seek payment of damages under a breach of contract clause in our contracts. If a substantial number of merchant-owned ATM customers end their relationships with us, it could cause a material reduction in our ATM sales. Changes in technology could reduce use of ATMs as a result, reduce our sales. New technology in the ATM industry may result in the existing machines in our networks becoming obsolete, requiring us, or the merchants in our networks who own their machines, to either replace or upgrade our existing machines. Any replacement or upgrade program to machines that we own or that we must upgrade or replace under contracts with merchant owners would involve substantial expense, as was the case with respect to the upgrade of our ATMs to meet triple DES requirements. A failure to either replace or upgrade obsolete machines could result in customers using other ATM networks that could employ newer technology, thereby reducing our sales and reducing or eliminating our operating margins. As a result of our financial situation, we may not have sufficient capital to provide upgrades or replacements to a significant degree, which could impact our operating results. The ATM market is highly competitive, which could limit our growth or reduce our sales. Persons seeking ATM services have numerous choices. These choices include ATMs offered by banks or other financial institutions and ATMs offered by ISOs such as ours. Some of our competitors offer services directly comparable to ours while others are only indirect competitors as we describe in “Business — Competition.” In addition, we believe that there will be continued consolidation in the ATM industry in the United States. Accordingly, new competitors may emerge and quickly acquire significant market share. This competition could prevent us from obtaining or maintaining desirable locations for our machines, reduce the use of our machines, and limit or reduce the transaction fees we can charge or require us to increase our merchants’ share of those fees. The occurrence of any of these factors could limit our growth or reduce our sales. We have agreed to terminate our master services agreement with eFunds and, if we are unable to provide timely and satisfactory replacement services, our relationships with merchants and cardholders could deteriorate and our transaction volume could be reduced. Our ATM business requires close coordination of merchant relationships, cardholder relationships, cash management activities and telecommunication services. In connection with our acquisition of the eFunds ATM business in 2004, we entered into a master services agreement with eFunds pursuant to which eFunds has provided most of these services to us for merchant contracts we acquired from them. As a result, we have depended on eFunds to provide many services that are necessary to the operations of our ATM business. In December 2007 we entered into a settlement agreement that terminates the master services agreement. eFunds has agreed to work with us to provide an orderly transition whereby we will assume, either directly or through other outsource providers, the services being performed under the master services agreement, other than ATM processing. If we are unable to provide replacement services in a timely and satisfactory manner, our relationships with merchants or cardholders could deteriorate and our transaction volume could be reduced. We rely on third parties to service our ATMs and their failure to do so may harm our operations, damage our reputation and decrease our transaction volume. 8 Our success depends upon the proper functioning of our ATMs. We rely on third party service providers to service our ATMs. If our third-party service providers fail to service our ATMs properly, or fail to respond quickly to problems, we may lose customers which will decrease our transaction volume and adversely affect our ability to become profitable. Additionally if our third-party service providers fail to service our ATMs, our reputation and ability to grow may be impaired. Increases in interest rates will increase our expenses. We have credit and vault cash facilities that carry variable interest rates. Consequently, increases in interest rates increase our operating costs and expenses. See Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk – Interest Rate Risk” for a discussion regarding the impact of changes in interest rates on our expenses. Our ATM business operates in a changing and unpredictable regulatory environment. ATM withdrawal transactions involve the electronic transfer of funds through EFTNs. The United States Electronic Funds Transfer Act provides the basic framework establishing the rights, liabilities and responsibilities of participants in EFTNs. In addition, there have been various state and local efforts to ban, limit or otherwise regulate ATM transaction fees, which make up a large portion of our sales. For example, in Tennessee, Nebraska and Iowa only bank-sponsored ATMs can impose withdrawal fees. As a result, in these states we must make arrangements with a local bank to act as a sponsor of ATMs in our networks, which typically involves additional documentation costs and payment of a fee to the bank. Any limitation on our ability to charge withdrawal fees in areas where we have a concentration of ATMs could reduce our ATM sales and reduce the incentive that merchants would have to keep ATMs in our network on their premises. In addition, if existing regulations are made more restrictive or new regulations are enacted, we may incur significant expense to comply with them. Because of reported instances of fraudulent use of ATMs, including the use of electronic devices to scan ATM card information, or skimming, legislation is pending that would require state or federal licensing and background checks of ATM operators and would regulate the deployment and operation of ATMs. There are proposals pending in some jurisdictions that would require merchants that are not financial institutions to be licensed in order to maintain an ATM on their premises; some jurisdictions currently require such licensing. New licensing, deployment or operating requirements could increase our cost of doing business in those markets. We may incur substantial expense in upgrading our ATMs to meet new standards, and, if we cannot meet compliance deadlines, we could be required to remove non-compliant ATMs from service. Data encryption makes ATMs more tamper-resistant. Two of the more recently developed advanced data encryption methods are commonly referred to as EPP and Triple DES. In 2005, we adopted a policy that any new ATMs that we acquire from a manufacturer must be both EPP and Triple DES compliant. As of December 31, 2007, fewer than 50 of our owned ATMs in the United States were not compliant with EPP and Triple DES. We plan to upgrade these remaining machines when upgrade parts are received from the manufacturers. These ATMs continue to operate on a limited basis under extension agreements with a few networks. We estimate that these remaining machines will be upgraded by April 30, 2008; however, our ability to complete these upgrades depends on parts and labor vendors with which our influence may be limited. We estimate that costs associated with upgrading these remaining machines will not exceed $50,000. The Americans with Disabilities Act, or ADA, currently includes provisions regulating the amount of clear floor space required in front of each ATM, prescribing the maximum height and reach depth of each ATM, and mandating that instructions and all information for use of the ATM be made accessible to and independently usable by persons with vision impairments. The Department of Justice is currently drafting new accessibility guidelines under the ADA that will cover virtually all aspects of commercial activity relating to disabled persons. We expect that these new guidelines will include provisions addressing ATMs and how to make them more accessible to the disabled. Under the current proposals, height and reach requirements would be shortened, keypads would be required to be laid out in the manner of telephone keypads with selected Braille symbols and ATMs would be required to possess speech capabilities. These new guidelines would affect the manufacture of ATM equipment going forward and could require us to retire or upgrade many of the ATMs we own, as well as merchant-owned ATMs where we are responsible for upgrade costs, potentially at significant expense to us. While we anticipate having the resources available to complete any required upgrades to our ATMs, if our projections are not achieved or our circumstances worsen, we may not have sufficient resources without obtaining additional financing, which may not be available to us. The comment period on the proposed guidelines ended May 31, 2005. No guidelines have yet been promulgated. Should the guidelines proposed become final, we anticipate an 18-month phase-in before new equipment in new locations must comply with new accessibility requirements. If ATMs in our network are not compliant with any applicable ADA guidelines by any 9 established deadlines and we cannot obtain compliance waivers, we could have to remove the non-compliant ATMs from service and, as a result, our ATM net sales could be materially reduced during the period of time necessary to become compliant. The passing of anti-money laundering legislation could cause us to lose some merchant accounts, thus reducing our revenues. Recent concerns expressed by the United States federal government regarding the use of ATMs to launder money could lead to the imposition of additional regulations on our sponsoring financial institutions and our merchant customers regarding the source of cash loaded into their ATMs. In particular, such regulations could result in the incurrence of additional costs by individual merchants who load their own cash, thereby making their ATMs less profitable. Accordingly, some individual merchants may decide to discontinue their ATM operations, thus reducing the number of merchant-owned accounts that we currently manage. If such a reduction were to occur, we would see a corresponding decrease in our revenues. If we, our transaction processors, our EFTNs or our other service providers experience system failures, the ATM products and services we provide could be delayed or interrupted, which would harm our business. Our ability to provide reliable service largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operations of our transaction processors, EFTNs and other service providers. Any significant interruptions could severely harm our business and reputation and result in a loss of sales. Additionally, if we cause any such interruption, we could lose the affected merchants or damage our relationships with them. Our systems and operations, and those of our transaction processors, EFTNs and other service providers, could be exposed to damage or interruption from fire, natural disaster, unlawful acts, terrorist attacks, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry and computer viruses. We cannot be certain that any measures we and our service providers have taken to prevent system failures will be successful or that we will not experience service interruptions. Further, our property and business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses or failures that may occur. We rely on EFTNs and transaction processors; if we cannot renew our agreements with them, if they are unable to perform their services effectively or if they decrease the level of the transaction fees we receive, it could harm our business. We rely on several EFTNs and transaction processors to provide card authorization, data capture and settlement services to us and our merchant customers. Any inability on our part to renew our agreements with these or similar service providers or their failure to provide their services efficiently and effectively may damage our relationships with our merchants and may permit those merchants to terminate their agreements with us. Our ATM net sales depend to a significant extent upon the transaction fees we receive through EFTNs. If one or more of the EFTNs in which we participate reduces the transaction fees it pays us, and we are unable to route transactions to other EFTNs to replace them, our ATM net sales would be reduced. We could lose access to our ATM vault cash and fees that we have earned due to circumstances beyond our control. Our current vault cash facility is secured by the cash we draw from it to place in ATMs, as well as by the withdrawal and interchange fees we have earned but not yet collected and a demand letter of credit, so the lender under that arrangement could seize the cash and fees in the event of a default. We obtain the cash that we use to fill our placement ATMs, which we call vault cash, in the United States pursuant to an agreement with TRM Inventory Funding Trust, for which one of our subsidiaries, TRM ATM Corporation, acts as servicer. Under the terms of the loan and servicing agreement, the Trust and the servicer must make periodic payments of fees related to the arrangement. The obligations under the loan and servicing agreement are secured by pledges of all of the Trust’s assets, including the vault cash, our uncollected withdrawal and interchange fees and a demand letter of credit. If there is a default under the loan and servicing agreement, the lender may terminate the loan and servicing agreement and seize the collateral, including existing vault cash, fees we have not yet received, and draw on the letter of credit. As a result, a default under the loan and servicing agreement could cause us to lose fees we had earned and suspend operations with respect to our placement ATMs unless we were able to rapidly arrange an alternative source of vault cash. 10 Our vault cash arrangement could go into default as a result of factors over which we have no control. The loan and servicing agreement for our vault cash facility contains events of default that include: • An “event of bankruptcy” with respect to any entity on whose property more than 10% of our ATMs are located, if we are unable to remove all cash from those ATMs within five business days after the event of bankruptcy occurs. An event of bankruptcy includes the filing of a bankruptcy petition with a court, an entity admitting in writing that it is unable to satisfy its obligations as they become due or the board of directors of the entity voting to cause an event of bankruptcy, regardless of whether we are informed of any of these actions. • Any depository bank or transportation agent, excepting one pre-approved bank and one pre-approved transportation agent, failing to maintain a specified debt rating. • The amount of vault cash held by or maintained on the premises of entities, which would generally be our transportation agents and merchants, that have experienced an event of bankruptcy when added to the amount of cash owed from settlement banks that is past due exceeding a designated level. Due to these provisions, the bankruptcy or financial difficulty of certain of our merchants or the companies on which we rely for services could cause an event of default under our loan and servicing agreement and prevent us from having access to the vault cash we require to operate our placement ATMs. We do not have any operational control over our merchants or other service providers and may not be able to determine whether any of these entities are facing financial difficulty that could increase our risk of default under the loan and servicing agreement. As a result, we could lose access to our vault cash due to circumstances that we would be unable to foresee and that are beyond our control. If our vault cash arrangement terminates, we may be unable to obtain vault cash from alternative sources on acceptable terms or at all. If we do not have access to vault cash for our placement ATMs we will have to suspend our operations with respect to these ATMs, our results of operations will be reduced and the value of our shareholders’ investments will decrease. Additionally, there are cross-default provisions in our vault cash facility whereby if we fail to comply with the covenants of our restructured loan agreements and are declared to be in default by GSO Origination Funding Partners LP and other lenders, we may be declared in default of the provisions of the Loan and Servicing Agreement and the Securities Purchase Agreement as well, and the lenders may demand payment. We have notified our vault cash provider that we intend to terminate our current vault cash arrangement and obtain our vault cash from another source; although we believe that we will have an agreement in place for a new vault cash arrangement that will be more cost-effective than the current arrangement, if we are unable to obtain vault cash for our placement ATMs, it would harm our business. In March 2008, we notified our current vault cash provider that we intend to terminate our current vault cash arrangement sometime during the second quarter of 2008. We have made arrangements with another provider of vault cash that we believe will provide vault cash for us at a lower cost. We do not anticipate that this change in vault cash providers will cause any significant interruption in our business. We have tested the new vault cash provider’s abilities in a small sample of our ATMs. This test created an exclusivity violation under our current vault cash agreement. Although we expect our current provider to cooperate in our transition to the new provider, they could declare us to be in default of TRM Inventory Funding Trust’s Loan and Servicing Agreement and demand repayment of our vault cash liability before we have finalized arrangements to replace that cash in our ATMs. If we do not have access to vault cash for our company-owned ATMs we will have to suspend our operations with respect to these ATMs and our revenues will be reduced. We experienced substantial theft losses in our ATM operations in the past. If we were to experience a recurrence of these losses, our results of operations could be harmed. Our United States ATM operations experienced $569,000 in unreimbursed theft losses in 2005, as a result of which we implemented new measures to counter theft and vandalism. Our unreimbursed theft losses in 2006 were $201,000 and in 2007 were $145,000. We cannot assure you that the anti-theft and anti-vandalism measures we have taken will be sufficient to reduce or even maintain the 2007 level of loss in 2008. Failure to do so or to devise additional measures to counteract theft and vandalism may result in substantial theft and vandalism losses, harming our results of operations. 11 In the past we have had crime insurance to reimburse us for losses that exceed certain deductible levels. Since July 1, 2005, due to increases in both the deductible level and the cost of the insurance, we have insured only against catastrophic cash losses. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock We do not plan to pay dividends on our common stock. We do not plan to declare dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future and, in any event, under the terms of our credit facility with GSO Origination Funding Partners LP and other lenders and the Lampe Facility, we are prohibited from doing so. Our charter documents and Oregon law may inhibit a takeover that shareholders may consider favorable. The Oregon Business Corporation Act, our restated articles of incorporation and our restated bylaws contain provisions that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company or our management that shareholders may consider favorable or beneficial, which could reduce the value of our shareholders’ investments. These provisions could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for shareholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions include: • authorization to issue “blank check” preferred stock, which is preferred stock that can be created by our board of directors without prior shareholder approval and with rights senior to those of common stock; • a classified board of directors, so that it could take three successive annual meetings to replace all directors; • authority for directors to establish the size of the board of directors without shareholder approval; • a requirement of a 75% vote of shareholders to remove a director for cause; • a requirement of a 75% vote of shareholders for business combinations with a 5% or greater shareholder that is not approved by our board of directors, with only limited exceptions; and • an advance notice requirement for shareholder proposals. The delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ Global Market may result in impairment of the price at which our common stock trades and the liquidity of the market for it. On March 12, 2008, we announced that we had failed to comply with NASDAQ’s minimum bid price requirement and as a result, no longer met the requirements for continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Market. We filed an election to transfer to the NASDAQ Capital Market. On March 19, 2007, we were notified by NASDAQ that our application to transfer our shares to the NASDAQ Capital Market was denied due to our failure to demonstrate compliance with the NASDAQ Capital Market’s initial inclusion requirements (other than bid price) as set forth in Marketplace Rule 4310(c). We received an additional NASDAQ Staff Determination Letter dated March 19, 2008, stating that our shares will be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market as a result of our failure to satisfy the minimum stock price requirement of the NASDAQ Global Market as set forth in Marketplace Rule 4450(a). NASDAQ’s staff notified us that, unless we requested an appeal of the delisting determination, NASDAQ would suspend trading of our common stock at the opening of business on March 28, 2008, and our common stock would subsequently be delisted. We have appealed the Staff’s determination and requested a hearing, which will stay any delisting action pending the issuance of a decision by the Panel following the hearing. If our common stock is delisted, it will not be traded on any national stock exchange and it may not be traded on any exchange for the foreseeable future. In addition, even if we regain compliance and seek to be relisted, we cannot be certain that NASDAQ will approve our application for relisting or that any other exchange will approve our common stock for listing. As a consequence, the ability of a stockholder to sell our common stock, and the price obtainable for our common stock could be materially impaired. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 12 