ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following is a summary of the risk factors that we believe are most relevant to our business. These are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ significantly from anticipated or historical results. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosure we make on related subjects in our reports on forms 10-Q and 8-K filed with the SEC. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS WE HAVE A HISTORY OF SIGNIFICANT LOSSES FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS AND EXPECT TO CONTINUE SUCH LOSSES FOR THE FORESEEABLE FUTURE. Since Celsion’s inception, our expenses have substantially exceeded our revenues, resulting in continuing losses and an accumulated deficit of $100 million at December 31, 2010. For the year ended December 31, 2010 we incurred a net loss of $18.4 million. Because we presently have no product revenues and we are committed to continuing our product research, development and commercialization programs, we will continue to experience significant operating losses unless and until we complete the development of ThermoDox® and other new products and these products have been clinically tested, approved by the FDA and successfully marketed. 10 IF OUR PRODUCTS FAIL IN CLINICAL TRIALS, WE WILL BE UNABLE TO OBTAIN OR MAINTAIN FDA AND INTERNATIONAL REGULATORY APPROVALS AND WILL BE UNABLE TO SELL THOSE PRODUCTS. To obtain regulatory approvals from the FDA and international regulatory agencies, we must conduct clinical trials demonstrating that our products are safe and effective. We may need to amend ongoing trials or the FDA and/or international regulatory agencies may require us to perform additional trials beyond those we planned. Such occurrences could result in significant delays and additional costs, and related clinical trials may be unsuccessful. WE DO NOT EXPECT TO GENERATE SIGNIFICANT REVENUE FOR THE FORESEEABLE FUTURE. We have devoted our resources to developing a new generation of products but will not be able to market these products until we have completed clinical testing and obtain all necessary governmental approvals. In addition, our products are still in various stages of development and testing and cannot be marketed until we have completed clinical testing and obtained necessary governmental approval. Accordingly, our revenue sources are, and will remain, extremely limited until our products are clinically tested, approved by the FDA and successfully marketed. We cannot guarantee that any or all of our products will be successfully tested, approved by the FDA or marketed, successfully or otherwise, at any time in the foreseeable future or at all. IF WE DO NOT RAISE ADDITIONAL CAPITAL, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO COMPLETE THE DEVELOPMENT, TESTING AND COMMERCIALIZATION OF OUR PRODUCT CANDIDATES. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately $1.5 million in cash and short term investments. To complete the development and commercialization of our product, we will need to raise substantial amounts of additional capital. We do not have any committed sources of financing and cannot offer any assurances that alternate funding will be available in a timely manner, on acceptable terms or at all. In the event we can not raise additional capital, we may be required to delay, scale back or eliminate certain aspects of our operations or attempt to obtain funds through unfavorable arrangements with partners or others that may force us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies, products or potential markets or that could impose onerous financial or other terms. Furthermore, if we cannot fund our ongoing development and other operating requirements, particularly those associated with our obligations to conduct clinical trials under our licensing agreements, we will be in breach of these licensing agreements and could therefore lose our license rights, which could have material adverse effects on our business. WE HAVE NO INTERNAL SALES OR MARKETING CAPABILITY AND MUST ENTER INTO ALLIANCES WITH OTHERS POSSESSING SUCH CAPABILITIES TO COMMERCIALIZE OUR PRODUCTS SUCCESSFULLY. We intend to market our products, if and when such products are approved for commercialization by the FDA, either directly or through other strategic alliances and distribution arrangements with third parties. There can be no assurance that we will be able to enter into third-party marketing or distribution arrangements on advantageous terms or at all. To the extent that we do enter into such arrangements, we will be dependent on our marketing and distribution partners. In entering into third-party marketing or distribution arrangements, we expect to incur significant additional expense. There can be no assurance that, to the extent that we sell products directly or we enter into any commercialization arrangements with third parties, such third parties will establish adequate sales and distribution capabilities or be successful in gaining market acceptance for our products and services. OUR BUSINESS DEPENDS ON LICENSE AGREEMENTS WITH THIRD PARTIES TO PERMIT US TO USE PATENTED TECHNOLOGIES. THE LOSS OF ANY OF OUR RIGHTS UNDER THESE AGREEMENTS COULD IMPAIR OUR ABILITY TO DEVELOP AND MARKET OUR PRODUCTS. Our success will depend, in substantial part, on our ability to maintain our rights under license agreements granting us rights to use patented technologies. We have entered into license agreements with Duke University, under which we have exclusive rights to commercialize medical treatment products and procedures based on Duke’s thermo-sensitive liposome technology. The Duke University license agreement contains a license fee, royalty and/or research support provisions, testing and regulatory milestones, and other performance requirements that we must meet by certain deadlines. If we were to breach these or other provisions of the license and research agreements, we could lose our ability to use the subject technology, as well as compensation for our efforts in developing or exploiting the technology. Any such loss of rights and access to technology could have a material adverse effect on our business. 11 Further, we cannot guarantee that any patent or other technology rights licensed to us by others will not be challenged or circumvented successfully by third parties, or that the rights granted will provide adequate protection. We are aware of published patent applications and issued patents belonging to others, and it is not clear whether any of these patents or applications, or other patent applications of which we may not have any knowledge, will require us to alter any of our potential products or processes, pay licensing fees to others or cease certain activities. Litigation, which could result in substantial costs, may also be necessary to enforce any patents issued to or licensed by us or to determine the scope and validity of others’ claimed proprietary rights. We also rely on trade secrets and confidential information that we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our corporate partners, collaborators, employees and consultants. We cannot guarantee that these agreements will not be breached, that, even if not breached, that they are adequate to protect our trade secrets, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known to, or will not be discovered independently by, competitors. OUR PRODUCTS COULD INFRINGE PATENT RIGHTS OF OTHERS, WHICH MAY REQUIRE COSTLY LITIGATION AND, IF WE ARE NOT SUCCESSFUL, COULD CAUSE US TO PAY SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGES OR LIMIT OUR ABILITY TO COMMERCIALIZE OUR PRODUCTS. Our commercial success depends on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and other proprietary rights of third parties. There may be third party patents that relate to our products and technology. We may unintentionally infringe upon valid patent rights of third parties. Although we are currently not involved in any material litigation involving patents, a third party patent holder could assert a claim of patent infringement against us in the future. Alternatively, we may initiate litigation against the third party patent holder to request that a court declare that we are not infringing the third party’s patent and/or that the third party’s patent is invalid or unenforceable. If a claim of infringement is asserted against us and is successful, and therefore we are found to infringe, we could be required to pay damages for infringement, including treble damages if it is determined that we knew or became aware of such a patent and we failed to exercise due care in determining whether or not we infringed the patent. If we have supplied infringing products to third parties or have licensed third parties to manufacture, use or market infringing products, we may be obligated to indemnify these third parties for damages they may be required to pay to the patent holder and for any losses they may sustain. We can also be prevented from selling or commercializing any of our products that use the infringing technology in the future, unless we obtain a license from such third party. A license may not be available from such third party on commercially reasonable terms, or may not be available at all. Any modification to include a non-infringing technology may not be possible or if possible may be difficult or time-consuming to develop, and require revalidation, which could delay our ability to commercialize our products. Any infringement action asserted against us, even if we are ultimately successful in defending against such action, would likely delay the regulatory approval process of our products, harm our competitive position, be expensive and require the time and attention of our key management and technical personnel. WE RELY ON THIRD PARTIES TO CONDUCT ALL OF OUR CLINICAL TRIALS. IF THESE THIRD PARTIES ARE UNABLE TO CARRY OUT THEIR CONTRACTUAL DUTIES IN A MANNER THAT IS CONSISTENT WITH OUR EXPECTATIONS, COMPLY WITH BUDGETS AND OTHER FINANCIAL OBLIGATIONS OR MEET EXPECTED DEADLINES, WE MAY NOT RECEIVE CERTAIN DEVELOPMENT MILESTONE PAYMENTS OR BE ABLE TO OBTAIN REGULATORY APPROVAL FOR OR COMMERCIALIZE OUR PRODUCT CANDIDATES IN A TIMELY OR COST-EFFECTIVE MANNER. We currently have only 16 full-time employees. We rely, and expect to continue to rely, on third-party Clinical Research Organizations to conduct our clinical trials. Because we do not conduct our own clinical trials, we must rely on the efforts of others and cannot always control or predict accurately the timing of such trials, the costs associated with such trials or the procedures that are followed for such trials. We do not anticipate significantly increasing our personnel in the foreseeable future and therefore, expect to continue to rely on third parties to conduct all of our future clinical trials. If these third parties are unable to carry out their contractual duties or obligations in a manner that is consistent with our expectations or meet expected deadlines, if they do not carry out the trials in accordance with budgeted amounts, if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to their failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or for other reasons, or if they fail to maintain compliance with applicable government regulations and standards, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated or may become prohibitively expensive, we may not receive development milestone payments when expected or at all, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our product candidates. At this time, the Company is unable to determine what, if any, effect the catastrophic events resulting from the March 11, 2011 earthquake and Tsunami in Japan will have on the conduct or timeframe of clinical trials for our Phase III HEAT study at sites in Japan. In addition, enrollment of additional patients at clinical sites in Japan for our Phase III HEAT study is currently on hold pending the DMC’s ongoing review of safety and efficacy data in accordance with the PMDA in Japan and the DMC’s charter. A failure to resume patient enrollment at clinical trial sites in Japan could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition as the resumption of patient enrollment is a condition to our receipt of an accelerated $2 million development milestone payment under our agreement with Yakult and is a mandatory conversion event of our 8% redeemable convertible preferred stock. 12 OUR BUSINESS IS SUBJECT TO NUMEROUS AND EVOLVING STATE, FEDERAL AND FOREIGN REGULATIONS AND WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO SECURE THE GOVERNMENT APPROVALS NEEDED TO DEVELOP AND MARKET OUR PRODUCTS. Our research and development activities, pre-clinical tests and clinical trials, and ultimately the manufacturing, marketing and labeling of our products, are all subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies. Pre-clinical testing and clinical trial requirements and the regulatory approval process typically take years and require the expenditure of substantial resources. Additional government regulation may be established that could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our product candidates. Delays or rejections in obtaining regulatory approvals would adversely affect our ability to commercialize any product candidates and our ability to generate product revenues or royalties. The FDA and foreign regulatory agencies require that the safety and efficacy of product candidates be supported through adequate and well-controlled clinical trials. If the results of pivotal clinical trials do not establish the safety and efficacy of our product candidates to the satisfaction of the FDA and other foreign regulatory agencies, we will not receive the approvals necessary to market such product candidates. Even if regulatory approval of a product candidate is granted, the approval may include significant limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed. We are subject to the periodic inspection of our clinical trials, facilities, procedures and operations and/or the testing of our products by the FDA to determine whether our systems and processes are in compliance with FDA regulations. Following such inspections, the FDA may issue notices on Form 483 and warning letters that could cause us to modify certain activities identified during the inspection. A Form 483 notice is generally issued at the conclusion of an FDA inspection and lists conditions the FDA inspectors believe may violate FDA regulations. FDA guidelines specify that a warning letter is issued only for violations of “regulatory significance” for which the failure to adequately and promptly achieve correction may be expected to result in an enforcement action. Failure to comply with FDA and other governmental regulations can result in fines, unanticipated compliance expenditures, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production and/or distribution, suspension of the FDA’s review of product applications, enforcement actions, injunctions and criminal prosecution. Under certain circumstances, the FDA also has the authority to revoke previously granted product approvals. Although we have internal compliance programs, if these programs do not meet regulatory agency standards or if our compliance is deemed deficient in any significant way, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company. We are also subject to recordkeeping and reporting regulations. These regulations require, among other things, the reporting to the FDA of adverse events alleged to have been associated with the use of a product or in connection with certain product failures. Labeling and promotional activities also are regulated by the FDA. We must also comply with record keeping requirements as well as requirements to report certain adverse events involving our products. The FDA can impose other post-marketing controls on us as well as our products including, but not limited to, restrictions on sale and use, through the approval process, regulations and otherwise. Many states in which we do, or in the future, may do business, or in which our products may be sold, impose licensing, labeling or certification requirements that are in addition to those imposed by the FDA. There can be no assurance that one or more states will not impose regulations or requirements that have a material adverse effect on our ability to sell our products. In many of the foreign countries in which we may do business or in which our products may be sold, we will be subject to regulation by national governments and supranational agencies as well as by local agencies affecting, among other things, product standards, packaging requirements, labeling requirements, import restrictions, tariff regulations, duties and tax requirements. There can be no assurance that one or more countries or agencies will not impose regulations or requirements that could have a material adverse effect on our ability to sell our products. LEGISLATIVE AND REGULATORY CHANGES AFFECTING THE HEALTH CARE INDUSTRY COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. Political, economic and regulatory influences are subjecting the healthcare industry to potential fundamental changes that could substantially affect our results of operations. There have been a number of government and private sector initiatives during the last few years to limit the growth of healthcare costs, including price regulation, competitive pricing, coverage and payment policies, comparative effectiveness of therapies, technology assessments and managed-care arrangements. It is uncertain which legislative proposals, if any, will be adopted (or when) or what actions federal, state, or private payors for health care treatment and services may take in response to any health care reform proposals or legislation. We cannot predict the effect health care reforms may have on our business and we can offer no assurances that any of these reforms will not have a material adverse effect on our business. These actual and potential changes are causing the marketplace to put increased emphasis on the delivery of more cost-effective treatments. In addition, uncertainty remains regarding proposed significant reforms to the U.S. healthcare system. 13 THE SUCCESS OF OUR PRODUCTS MAY BE HARMED IF THE GOVERNMENT, PRIVATE HEALTH INSURERS AND OTHER THIRD-PARTY PAYORS DO NOT PROVIDE SUFFICIENT COVERAGE OR REIMBURSEMENT. Our ability to commercialize our new cancer treatment systems successfully will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for the costs of such products and related treatments will be available from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other third-party payors. The reimbursement status of newly approved medical products is subject to significant uncertainty. We cannot guarantee that adequate third-party insurance coverage will be available for us to establish and maintain price levels sufficient for us to realize an appropriate return on our investment in developing new therapies. Government, private health insurers and other third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain health care costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for new therapeutic products approved for marketing by the FDA. Accordingly, even if coverage and reimbursement are provided by government, private health insurers and third-party payors for uses of our products, market acceptance of these products would be adversely affected if the reimbursement available proves to be unprofitable for health care providers. OUR PRODUCTS MAY NOT ACHIEVE SUFFICIENT ACCEPTANCE BY THE MEDICAL COMMUNITY TO SUSTAIN OUR BUSINESS. Our cancer treatment development projects using ThermoDox® plus RFA or microwave heating, are currently in clinical trials. Any or all of these projects may prove not to be effective in practice. If testing and clinical practice do not confirm the safety and efficacy of our product candidates or, even if further testing and practice produce positive results but the medical community does not view these new forms of treatment as effective and desirable, our efforts to market our new products may fail, with material adverse consequences to our business. TECHNOLOGIES FOR THE TREATMENT OF CANCER ARE SUBJECT TO RAPID CHANGE, AND THE DEVELOPMENT OF TREATMENT STRATEGIES THAT ARE MORE EFFECTIVE THAN OUR TECHNOLOGIES COULD RENDER OUR TECHNOLOGIES OBSOLETE. Various methods for treating cancer currently are, and in the future are expected to be, the subject of extensive research and development. Many possible treatments that are being researched, if successfully developed, may not require, or may supplant, the use of our technologies. The successful development and acceptance of any one or more of these alternative forms of treatment could render our technology obsolete as a cancer treatment method. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO HIRE OR RETAIN KEY OFFICERS OR EMPLOYEES THAT WE NEED TO IMPLEMENT OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY AND DEVELOP OUR PRODUCTS AND BUSINESS. Our success depends significantly on the continued contributions of our executive officers, scientific and technical personnel and consultants, and on our ability to attract additional personnel as we seek to implement our business strategy and develop our products and businesses. During our operating history, we have assigned many essential responsibilities to a relatively small number of individuals. However, as our business and the demands on our key employees expand, we have been, and will continue to be, required to recruit additional qualified employees. The competition for such qualified personnel is intense, and the loss of services of certain key personnel or our inability to attract additional personnel to fill critical positions could adversely affect our business. Further, we do not carry “key man” insurance on any of our personnel. Therefore, loss of the services of key personnel would not be ameliorated by the receipt of the proceeds from such insurance. OUR SUCCESS WILL DEPEND IN PART ON OUR ABILITY TO GROW AND DIVERSIFY, WHICH IN TURN WILL REQUIRE THAT WE MANAGE AND CONTROL OUR GROWTH EFFECTIVELY. Our business strategy contemplates growth and diversification. Our ability to manage growth effectively will require that we continue to expend funds to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. In addition, we must effectively expand, train and manage our employees. We will be unable to manage our business effectively if we are unable to alleviate the strain on resources caused by growth in a timely and successful manner. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our growth and a failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business. WE FACE INTENSE COMPETITION AND THE FAILURE TO COMPETE EFFECTIVELY COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO DEVELOP AND MARKET OUR PRODUCTS. There are many companies and other institutions engaged in research and development of various technologies for cancer treatment products that seek treatment outcomes similar to those that we are pursuing. We believe that the level of interest by others in investigating the potential of possible competitive treatments and alternative technologies will continue and may 14 increase. Potential competitors engaged in all areas of cancer treatment research in the United States and other countries include, among others, major pharmaceutical, specialized technology companies, and universities and other research institutions. Most of our current and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, human and other resources, and may also have far greater experience than do we, both in pre-clinical testing and human clinical trials of new products and in obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals. One or more of these companies or institutions could succeed in developing products or other technologies that are more effective than the products and technologies that we have been or are developing, or which would render our technology and products obsolete and non-competitive. Furthermore, if we are permitted to commence commercial sales of any of our products, we will also be competing, with respect to manufacturing efficiency and marketing, with companies having substantially greater resources and experience in these areas. WE MAY BE SUBJECT TO SIGNIFICANT PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS AND LITIGATION. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of human therapeutic products. We presently have product liability insurance limited to $10 million per incident and $10 million annually. If we were to be subject to a claim in excess of this coverage or to a claim not covered by our insurance and the claim succeeded, we would be required to pay the claim with our own limited resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, liability or alleged liability could harm the business by diverting the attention and resources of our management and by damaging our reputation. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK HAS BEEN, AND MAY CONTINUE TO BE VOLATILE AND FLUCTUATE SIGNIFICANTLY, WHICH COULD RESULT IN SUBSTANTIALLY LOSSES FOR INVESTORS AND SUBJECT US TO SECURITIES CLASS ACTION LITIGATION. Market prices for our Common Stock and the securities of other medical, high technology companies have been volatile. Our Common Stock had a high price of $5.44 and a low price of $2.01 in the 52-week period ending December 31, 2010. Among the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate are the risks described in this “Risk Factors” section and other factors, including: ● fluctuations in our quarterly operating results or the operating results of our competitors; ● variance in our financial performance from the expectations of investors; ● changes in the estimation of the future size and growth rate of our markets; ● changes in accounting principles or changes in interpretations of existing principles, which could affect our financial results; ● failure of our products to achieve or maintain market acceptance or commercial success; ● conditions and trends in the markets we serve; ● changes in general economic, industry and market conditions; ● success of competitive products and services; ● changes in market valuations or earnings of our competitors; ● changes in our pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors; ● announcements of significant new products, contracts, acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or our competitors; ● changes in legislation or regulatory policies, practices, or actions; ● the commencement or outcome of litigation involving our company, our general industry or both; ● recruitment or departure of key personnel; 15 ● changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of additional debt; ● actual or expected sales of our common stock by our stockholders; and ● the trading volume of our common stock. In addition, the stock market in general, the NASDAQ Capital Market and the market for pharmaceutical companies in particular, may experience a loss of investor confidence. Such loss of investor confidence may result in extreme price and volume fluctuations in our common stock that are unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of our business, financial condition or results of operations. These broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our common stock and expose us to securities class action litigation. Such litigation, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and divert management’s attention and resources, which could further materially harm our financial condition and results of operations. THE ADVERSE CAPITAL AND CREDIT MARKET CONDITIONS COULD AFFECT OUR LIQUIDITY. Adverse capital and credit market conditions could affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, as well as our access to capital and cost of capital. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption for more than 12 months. In recent months, the volatility and disruption have reached unprecedented levels and the markets have exerted downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers. For example, recently credit spreads have widened considerably. Our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and capital position could be materially adversely affected by continued disruptions in the capital and credit markets. OUR STOCK HISTORICALLY HAS BEEN THINLY TRADED. THEREFORE, STOCKHOLDERS MAY NOT BE ABLE TO SELL THEIR SHARES FREELY. While our Common Stock is listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market, the volume of trading historically has been relatively light. There can be no assurance that our historically light trading volume, or any trading volume whatsoever, will be sustained in the future. Therefore, there can be no assurance that our stockholders will be able to sell their shares of our Common Stock at the time or at the price that they desire, or at all. WE HAVE NOT PAID DIVIDENDS ON OUR COMMON STOCK IN THE PAST AND DO NOT INTEND TO DO SO FOR THE FORESEEABLE FUTURE. We have never paid cash dividends on our Common Stock and do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. As a result, the return on an investment in our Common Stock will depend entirely upon the future appreciation in the price of our Common Stock. Our stockholders cannot achieve any degree of liquidity with respect to their shares of Common Stock except by selling such shares. ANTI-TAKEOVER PROVISIONS IN OUR CHARTER DOCUMENTS AND DELAWARE LAW COULD PREVENT OR DELAY A CHANGE IN CONTROL. Our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable by authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock. This preferred stock may be issued by the Board of Directors (the “Board”), on such terms as it determines, without further stockholder approval. Therefore, the Board may issue such preferred stock on terms unfavorable to a potential bidder in the event that the Board opposes a merger or acquisition. In addition, our classified Board may discourage such transactions by increasing the amount of time necessary to obtain majority representation on the Board. We also have implemented a stockholder rights plan and distributed to our stockholders one right per share of our Common Stock. When these rights become exercisable, each right entitles their holders to purchase one ten-thousandth (1/10,000) of a share of our Series C Junior Participating Preferred Stock (the “Preferred Stock”) at a price of $66.90 per one ten-thousandth (1/10,000) share. If any person or group acquires more than 15% of our Common Stock, the holders of rights (other than the person or group crossing the 15% threshold) will be able to receive, upon the exercise of their rights and in lieu of the Preferred Stock, the number of shares of our Common Stock (or the number of shares of stock of any company into which we are merged) having a value equal to twice the exercise price of their rights in exchange for the $66.90 exercise price. Because these rights may substantially dilute stock ownership by a person or group seeking to take us over without the approval of our Board, our rights plan could make it more difficult for a person or group to take us over (or acquire significant ownership interest in us) without negotiating with our Board regarding such a transaction. Certain other provisions of our Bylaws and of Delaware law may also discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring or merging with us, even if such action were beneficial to some, or even a majority, of our stockholders. 16 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 