ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following is a summary of the risk factors that we believe are most relevant to our business. These are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ significantly from anticipated or historical results. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosure we make on related subjects in our reports on forms 10-Q and 8-K filed with the SEC. WE HAVE A HISTORY OF SIGNIFICANT LOSSES AND EXPECT TO CONTINUE SUCH LOSSES FOR THE FORESEEABLE FUTURE. Since Celsion’s inception in 1982, our expenses have substantially exceeded our revenues, resulting in continuing losses and an accumulated deficit of $90,486,814 at December 31, 2006, including losses of $7,584,230 for the year then ended. Because we presently have only limited revenues from sales of our Prolieve system and related disposables and we are committed to continuing our product research, development and commercialization programs, we will continue to experience significant operating losses unless and until we complete the commercialization of Prolieve, as well as the development of other new products and these products have been clinically tested, approved by the FDA and successfully marketed. 9 Table of Contents WE DO NOT EXPECT TO GENERATE SIGNIFICANT REVENUE FOR THE FORESEEABLE FUTURE. Since 1995, we have devoted our resources to developing a new generation of products but have not been able to market these products until we completed clinical testing and obtained all necessary governmental approvals. On February 19, 2004, we received a PMA from the FDA for the first of our new generation of thermotherapy products—our Prolieve Thermodilatation system for the treatment of BPH—and, since that time, our distributor Boston Scientific has begun commercial introduction of the Prolieve system. However, we can give no assurance as to how much revenue will be generated by Prolieve sales. In addition, our other products are still in various stages of development and testing and cannot be marketed until we have completed clinical testing and obtained necessary governmental approval. Accordingly, our revenue sources are, and will remain, extremely limited until our other new products are clinically tested, approved by the FDA and successfully marketed. We cannot guarantee that any or all of our products will be successfully tested, approved by the FDA or marketed, successfully or otherwise, at any time in the foreseeable future or at all. IF WE ARE NOT ABLE TO OBTAIN NECESSARY FUNDING, WE WILL NOT BE ABLE TO COMPLETE THE DEVELOPMENT, TESTING AND COMMERCIALIZATION OF OUR TREATMENT SYSTEMS. We will need substantial additional funding in order to complete the development, testing and commercialization of our liver cancer and recurrent chest wall breast cancer treatment systems, as well as other potential new products. We expended approximately $9,345,400 on research and development activities in the 12-month period ended December 31, 2006. As of that date, we had approximately $9,032,700 in cash, cash equivalents and short term investments on hand to fund our operations. We have made a significant commitment to our heat-activated liposome research and development projects and it is our intention at least to maintain, or increase the pace and scope of these activities. The commitment to these new projects could require additional external funding, at least until we are able to generate sufficient cash flow from sale of one or more of our products to support our continued operations. We do not have any committed sources of financing and cannot offer any assurances that additional funding will be available in a timely manner, on acceptable terms or at all. If adequate funding is not available, we may be required to delay, scale back or eliminate certain aspects of our operations or attempt to obtain funds through unfavorable arrangements with partners or others that may force us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies, products or potential markets or that could impose onerous financial or other terms. Furthermore, if we cannot fund our ongoing development and other operating requirements, particularly those associated with our obligations to conduct clinical trials under our licensing agreements, we will be in breach of these licensing agreements and could therefore lose our license rights, which could have material adverse effects on our business. 10 Table of Contents WE HAVE NO INTERNAL SALES OR MARKETING CAPABILITY AND MUST ENTER INTO ALLIANCES WITH OTHERS POSSESSING SUCH CAPABILITIES TO COMMERCIALIZE OUR PRODUCTS SUCCESSFULLY. Currently our only source of revenues is from the sale of Prolieve control units and disposables to Boston Scientific which, in turn, distributes these products to the market. Consequently, we are dependent upon Boston Scientific for the successful introduction and marketing of our Prolieve system. There can be no assurance that Boston Scientific will establish adequate sales and distribution capabilities or be successful in gaining market acceptance for our Prolieve system. Disruption of our relationship with Boston Scientific, or Boston Scientific’s sales of Prolieve products, would reduce our revenues and, if such reduction were material, it would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We intend to market our other products, if and when such products are approved for commercialization by the FDA, either directly or through other strategic alliances and distribution arrangements with third parties. There can be no assurance that we will be able to enter into third-party marketing or distribution arrangements on advantageous terms or at all. To the extent that we do enter into such arrangements, we will be dependent on our marketing and distribution partners. In entering into third-party marketing or distribution arrangements, we expect to incur significant additional expense. There can be no assurance that, to the extent that we sell products directly or we enter into any commercialization arrangements with third parties, such third parties will establish adequate sales and distribution capabilities or be successful in gaining market acceptance for our products and services. WE DEPEND ON THIRD-PARTY SUPPLIERS TO MANUFACTURE OUR PRODUCTS AND MAY NOT BE ABLE TO OBTAIN THESE PRODUCTS ON FAVORABLE TERMS OR AT ALL. We currently contract for the manufacture of both our Prolieve control units and disposables from limited source suppliers. The FDA must approve the vendors that supply us with Prolieve control units and disposables, and both our suppliers and the suppliers of our suppliers must comply with FDA regulations including good manufacturing practices. Accordingly, we are dependent upon our contract manufacturers to comply with FDA requirements. In the event a supplier should lose its regulatory status as an approved source, or otherwise would cease to supply us, we would attempt to locate an alternate source. However, we may not be able to obtain the required products or components in a timely manner, at commercially reasonable prices or at all. To the extent that alternative sources of supply are not available on a timely basis and at reasonable cost, the loss of any of our suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business. The loss of any of these suppliers would require that we obtain a replacement supplier, which would result in delays and additional expense in being able to meet our supply commitments to Boston Scientific. In addition, our suppliers are in turn largely dependent upon single or limited-source suppliers for critical components of our products. Although we believe that alternative sources of supply ultimately would be available both to us and to our suppliers if the need arose, the need to identify and qualify such alternative suppliers pursuant to FDA requirements would entail significant time and expense. OUR BUSINESS DEPENDS ON LICENSE AGREEMENTS WITH THIRD PARTIES TO PERMIT US TO USE PATENTED TECHNOLOGIES. THE LOSS OF ANY OF OUR RIGHTS UNDER THESE AGREEMENTS COULD IMPAIR OUR ABILITY TO DEVELOP AND MARKET OUR PRODUCTS. Our success will depend, in substantial part, on our ability to maintain our rights under license agreements granting us rights to use patented technologies. We have entered into an exclusive license agreement with MMTC, a privately owned developer of medical devices, for microwave balloon catheter technology. We have also entered into license agreements with Duke University, under which we have exclusive rights to commercialize medical treatment products and procedures based on Duke’s thermo-sensitive liposome technology. The MMTC and, Duke University license agreements each contain license fee, royalty and/or research support provisions, testing and regulatory milestones, and other performance requirements that we must meet by certain deadlines. If we were to breach these or other provisions of the license and research agreements, we could lose our ability to use the subject technology, as well as compensation for our efforts in developing or exploiting the technology. Any such loss of rights and access to technology could have a material adverse effect on our business. 11 Table of Contents Further, we cannot guarantee that any patent or other technology rights licensed to us by others will not be challenged or circumvented successfully by third parties, or that the rights granted will provide adequate protection. We are aware of published patent applications and issued patents belonging to others, and it is not clear whether any of these patents or applications, or other patent applications of which we may not have any knowledge, will require us to alter any of our potential products or processes, pay licensing fees to others or cease certain activities. Litigation, which could result in substantial costs, may also be necessary to enforce any patents issued to or licensed by us or to determine the scope and validity of others’ claimed proprietary rights. We also rely on trade secrets and confidential information that we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our corporate partners, collaborators, employees and consultants. We cannot guarantee that these agreements will not be breached, that, even if not breached, that they are adequate to protect our trade secrets, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known to, or will not be discovered independently by, competitors. WE RELY ON THIRD PARTIES TO CONDUCT ALL OF OUR CLINICAL TRIALS. IF THESE THIRD PARTIES DO NOT SUCCESSFULLY CARRY OUT THEIR CONTRACTUAL DUTIES, COMPLY WITH BUDGETS AND OTHER FINANCIAL OBLIGATIONS OR MEET EXPECTED DEADLINES, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO OBTAIN REGULATORY APPROVAL FOR OR COMMERCIALIZE OUR PRODUCT CANDIDATES IN A TIMELY OR COST-EFFECTIVE MANNER. We currently have only 29 full-time employees. We rely, and expect to continue to rely, on third-party CROs to conduct all of our clinical trials. We have contracted with Theradex to conduct our Phase I liver cancer trial and with INC Research, Inc. to conduct our Prolieve post-market study. Because we do not conduct our own clinical trials, we must rely on the efforts of others and cannot always control or predict accurately the timing of such trials, the costs associated with such trials or the procedures that are followed for such trials. We do not anticipate significantly increasing our personnel in the foreseeable future and therefore, expect to continue to rely on third parties to conduct all of our future clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or obligations or meet expected deadlines, if they do not carry out the trials in accordance with budgeted amounts, if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to their failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or for other reasons, or if they fail to maintain compliance with applicable government regulations and standards, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated or may become prohibitively expensive, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our product candidates. OUR BUSINESS IS SUBJECT TO NUMEROUS AND EVOLVING STATE, FEDERAL AND FOREIGN REGULATIONS AND WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO SECURE THE GOVERNMENT APPROVALS NEEDED TO DEVELOP AND MARKET OUR PRODUCTS. Our research and development activities, pre-clinical tests and clinical trials, and ultimately the manufacturing, marketing and labeling of our products, all are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies. Pre-clinical testing and clinical trial requirements and the regulatory approval process typically take years and require the expenditure of substantial resources. Additional government regulation may be established that could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our product candidates. Delays or rejections in obtaining regulatory approvals would adversely affect our ability to commercialize any product candidates and our ability to generate product revenues or royalties. The FDA and foreign regulatory agencies require that the safety and efficacy of product candidates be supported through adequate and well-controlled clinical trials. If the results of pivotal clinical trials do not establish the safety and efficacy of our product candidates to the satisfaction of the FDA and other foreign regulatory agencies, we will not receive the approvals necessary to market such product candidates. Even if regulatory approval of a product candidate is granted, the approval may include significant limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed. In addition, we are subject to inspections and regulations by the FDA. Medical devices must also continue to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, or QSR. Compliance with such regulations requires significant expenditures of time and effort to ensure full technical compliance. The FDA stringently applies regulatory standards for manufacturing. 12 Table of Contents We are subject to the periodic inspection of our clinical trials, facilities, procedures and operations and/or the testing of our products by the FDA to determine whether our systems and processes are in compliance with FDA regulations. Following such inspections, the FDA may issue notices on Form 483 and warning letters that could cause us to modify certain activities identified during the inspection. A Form 483 notice is generally issued at the conclusion of an FDA inspection and lists conditions the FDA inspectors believe may violate FDA regulations. FDA guidelines specify that a warning letter is issued only for violations of “regulatory significance” for which the failure to adequately and promptly achieve correction may be expected to result in an enforcement action. Failure to comply with FDA and other governmental regulations can result in fines, unanticipated compliance expenditures, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production and/or distribution, suspension of the FDA’s review of product applications, enforcement actions, injunctions and criminal prosecution. Under certain circumstances, the FDA also has the authority to revoke previously granted product approvals. Although we have internal compliance programs, if these programs do not meet regulatory agency standards or if our compliance is deemed deficient in any significant way, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company. We are also subject to record keeping and reporting regulations, including FDA’s mandatory Medical Device Reporting, or MDR, regulation. Labeling and promotional activities are regulated by the FDA and, in certain instances, by the Federal Trade Commission. Many states in which we do or in the future may do business or in which our products may be sold impose licensing, labeling or certification requirements that are in addition to those imposed by the FDA. There can be no assurance that one or more states will not impose regulations or requirements that have a material adverse effect on our ability to sell our products. In many of the foreign countries in which we may do business or in which our products may be sold, we will be subject to regulation by national governments and supranational agencies as well as by local agencies affecting, among other things, product standards, packaging requirements, labeling requirements, import restrictions, tariff regulations, duties and tax requirements. There can be no assurance that one or more countries or agencies will not impose regulations or requirements that could have a material adverse effect on our ability to sell our products. LEGISLATIVE AND REGULATORY CHANGES AFFECTING THE HEALTH CARE INDUSTRY COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. There have been a number of federal and state proposals during the last few years to subject the pricing of health care goods and services to government control and to make other changes to the United States health care system. It is uncertain which legislative proposals, if any, will be adopted (or when) or what actions federal, state, or private payors for health care treatment and services may take in response to any health care reform proposals or legislation. We cannot predict the effect health care reforms may have on our business and we can offer no assurances that any of these reforms will not have a material adverse effect on our business. THE SUCCESS OF OUR PRODUCTS MAY BE HARMED IF THE GOVERNMENT, PRIVATE HEALTH INSURERS AND OTHER THIRD-PARTY PAYORS DO NOT PROVIDE SUFFICIENT COVERAGE OR REIMBURSEMENT. Our ability to commercialize our new cancer treatment systems successfully will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for the costs of such products and related treatments will be available from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other third-party payors. The reimbursement status of newly approved medical products is subject to significant uncertainty. We cannot guarantee that adequate third-party insurance coverage will be available for us to establish and maintain price levels sufficient for us to realize an appropriate return on our investment in developing new therapies. Government, private health insurers and other third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain health care costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for new therapeutic products approved for marketing by the FDA. Accordingly, even if coverage and reimbursement are provided by government, private health insurers and third-party payors for uses of our products, market acceptance of these products would be adversely affected if the reimbursement available proves to be unprofitable for health care providers. 13 Table of Contents OUR PRODUCTS MAY NOT ACHIEVE SUFFICIENT ACCEPTANCE BY THE MEDICAL COMMUNITY TO SUSTAIN OUR BUSINESS. Although we have received a PMA from the FDA for our Prolieve system for the treatment of BPH, we can offer no assurance that the Prolieve system will be accepted by the medical community widely or at all. Our cancer treatment development projects using ThermoDox plus RFA or microwave heating, are currently in the early stages of Phase I clinical trials. Any or all of these projects may prove not to be effective in practice. If testing and clinical practice do not confirm the safety and efficacy of our systems or, even if further testing and practice produce positive results but the medical community does not view these new forms of treatment as effective and desirable, our efforts to market our new products may fail, with material adverse consequences to our business. TECHNOLOGIES FOR THE TREATMENT OF CANCER ARE SUBJECT TO RAPID CHANGE AND THE DEVELOPMENT OF TREATMENT STRATEGIES THAT ARE MORE EFFECTIVE THAN OUR TECHNOLOGIES COULD RENDER OUR TECHNOLOGIES OBSOLETE. Various methods for treating cancer currently are, and in the future may be expected to be, the subject of extensive research and development. Many possible treatments that are being researched, if successfully developed, may not require, or may supplant, the use of our technologies. The successful development and acceptance of any one or more of these alternative forms of treatment could render our technology obsolete as a cancer treatment method. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO HIRE OR RETAIN KEY OFFICERS OR EMPLOYEES THAT WE NEED TO IMPLEMENT OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY AND DEVELOP OUR PRODUCTS AND BUSINESS. Our success depends significantly on the continued contributions of our executive officers, scientific and technical personnel and consultants, and on our ability to attract additional personnel as we seek to implement our business strategy and develop our products and businesses. During our operating history, we have assigned many essential responsibilities to a relatively small number of individuals. However, as our business and the demands on our key employees expand, we have been, and will continue to be, required to recruit additional qualified employees. The competition for such qualified personnel is intense, and the loss of services of certain key personnel or our inability to attract additional personnel to fill critical positions could adversely affect our business. Further, we do not carry “key man” insurance on any of our personnel. Therefore, loss of the services of key personnel would not be ameliorated by the receipt of the proceeds from such insurance. OUR SUCCESS WILL DEPEND IN PART ON OUR ABILITY TO GROW AND DIVERSIFY, WHICH IN TURN WILL REQUIRE THAT WE MANAGE AND CONTROL OUR GROWTH EFFECTIVELY. Our business strategy contemplates growth and diversification. Our ability to manage growth effectively will require that we continue to expend funds to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. In addition, we must effectively expand, train and manage our employees. We will be unable to manage our businesses effectively if we are unable to alleviate the strain on resources caused by growth in a timely and successful manner. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our growth and a failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business. WE FACE INTENSE COMPETITION AND THE FAILURE TO COMPETE EFFECTIVELY COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO DEVELOP AND MARKET OUR PRODUCTS. There are many companies and other institutions engaged in research and development of various technologies, both for prostate disease and cancer treatment products that seek treatment outcomes similar to those that we are pursuing. We believe that the level of interest by others in investigating the potential of possible competitive treatments and alternative technologies will continue and may increase. Potential competitors engaged in all areas of prostate and cancer treatment research in the United States and other countries include, among others, major pharmaceutical, specialized technology companies, and universities and other research institutions. Most of our competitors and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, human and other resources, and may also have far greater experience, than do we, both in pre-clinical testing and human clinical trials of new products and in obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals. One or more of these companies or institutions could succeed in developing products or other technologies that are more effective than the products and technologies that we have been or are developing, or which would render our technology and products obsolete and non-competitive. 14 Table of Contents Furthermore, if we are permitted to commence commercial sales of any of our products, we will also be competing, with respect to manufacturing efficiency and marketing, with companies having substantially greater resources and experience in these areas. WE MAY BE SUBJECT TO SIGNIFICANT PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS AND LITIGATION. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of human therapeutic products. We presently have product liability insurance limited to $5,000,000 per incident and $5,000,000 annually. If we were to be subject to a claim in excess of this coverage or to a claim not covered by our insurance and the claim succeeded, we would be required to pay the claim with our own limited resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, liability or alleged liability could harm the business by diverting the attention and resources of our management and by damaging our reputation. THE EXERCISE OF OUR OUTSTANDING OPTIONS AND WARRANTS COULD RESULT IN SIGNIFICANT DILUTION OF OWNERSHIP INTERESTS IN OUR COMMON STOCK OR OTHER CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES. As of December 31, 2006, we had exercisable warrants and options outstanding enabling the holders thereof to purchase a total of 1,346,089 shares of our Common Stock, including 670,898 shares issueable upon exercise of stock warrants. The exercise prices of these options and warrants range from $2.18 to $75.00 per share, with a weighted average exercise price of $11.96 per share. We had additional unvested and unexercisable options outstanding to purchase a total of 196,688 shares of our Common Stock at exercise prices ranging from $2.18 to $22.50 per share. Some of the prices are below the current market price of our Common Stock, which has ranged from a low of $1.90 to a high of $2.31 over the 20 trading days ending December 31, 2006 and from a low of $3.58 to a high of $4.75 over the 20 trading days ending March 23, 2007. If holders of our options and warrants choose to exercise such instruments at prices below the prevailing market price for our Common Stock, the resulting purchase of a substantial number of shares of our Common Stock would have a dilutive effect on our stockholders and could adversely affect the market price of our issued and outstanding Common Stock. In addition, holders of these options and warrants who have the right to require registration of the Common Stock under certain circumstances and who elect to require such registration, or who exercise their options or warrants and then satisfy the one-year holding period and other requirements of Rule 144 of the Securities Act, will be able to sell in the public market shares of Common Stock purchased upon such exercise. IF THE PRICE OF OUR SHARES REMAINS LOW, WE MAY BE DELISTED BY THE AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE AND BECOME SUBJECT TO SPECIAL RULES APPLICABLE TO LOW PRICED STOCKS. Our Common Stock currently trades on The American Stock Exchange (Amex). The Amex, as a matter of policy, will consider the suspension of trading in, or removal from listing of, any stock when, in the opinion of the Amex, (i) the financial condition and/or operating results of an issuer appear to be unsatisfactory; (ii) it appears that the extent of public distribution or the aggregate market value of the stock has become so reduced as to make further dealings on the Amex inadvisable; (iii) the issuer has sold or otherwise disposed of its principal operating assets; or (iv) the issuer has sustained losses which are so substantial in relation to its overall operations or its existing financial condition has become so impaired that it appears questionable, in the opinion of the Amex, whether the issuer will be able to continue operations and/or meet its obligations as they mature. For example, the Amex will consider suspending dealings in or delisting the stock of an issuer if the issuer has sustained losses from continuing operations and/or net losses in its five most recent fiscal years. 15 Table of Contents On June 14, 2006 and subsequently and separately on September 6, 2006, Celsion received notice from the Amex that the Amex had determined that the Company was not in compliance with certain conditions of the continued listing standards of Section 1003 of the Amex Company Guide. Specifically, the Amex noted that the Company’s shareholders’ equity continues to be less than $4,000,000 and losses from continuing operations and/or net losses were incurred in three of the last four fiscal years, and that shareholders’ equity was less than $6,000,000 and losses from continuing operations and/or net losses were incurred in each of the last five fiscal years. Additionally, the Company’s shareholders’ equity was less than $2,000,000 and losses from continuing operations and/or net losses were incurred in two of its three most recent fiscal years. Pursuant to the notice dated June 14, 2006, the Company was afforded the opportunity to submit a plan of compliance to the Amex and on July 14, 2006, it presented its plan to the Amex. On August 31, 2006, the Amex notified the Company that it had accepted the Company’s plan of compliance and granted the Company an extension until December 14, 2007 to regain compliance with the continued listing standards. The Company will be subject to periodic review by the Amex staff during the extension period. Failure to make progress consistent with the plan or to regain compliance with the continued listing standards by the end of the extension period could result in the Company being delisted from the Amex. If the Company were to be delisted from the Amex, the Common Stock would become subject to the penny stock rules of the SEC, which generally are applicable to equity securities with a price of less than $5.00 per share (other than securities registered on certain national securities exchanges or quoted on the Nasdaq system, provided that current price and volume information with respect to transactions in such securities is provided by the exchange or system). The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document prepared by the SEC that provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with bid and ask quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account. In addition, the penny stock rules require that, prior to a transaction in a penny stock that is not otherwise exempt from such rules; the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements would be likely to have a material adverse effect on stock price and the level of trading activity in the secondary market for a stock that becomes subject to the penny stock rules. If our Common Stock were to become subject to the penny stock rules it is likely that the price of the Common Stock would decline and that our stockholders would be likely to find it more difficult to sell their shares. WE HAVE NOT PAID DIVIDENDS IN THE PAST AND DO NOT INTEND TO DO SO FOR THE FORESEEABLE FUTURE. We have never paid cash dividends and do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Therefore, our stockholders cannot achieve any degree of liquidity with respect to their shares of Common Stock except by selling such shares. OUR STOCK PRICE HAS BEEN, AND COULD BE, VOLATILE. Market prices for our Common Stock and the securities of other medical, high technology companies have been volatile. Our Common Stock had a high price of $5.83 and a low price of $1.80 in the 52-week period ending December 31, 2006. Factors such as announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or by our competitors, government regulatory action, litigation, patent or proprietary rights developments and market conditions for medical and high technology stocks in general can have a significant impact on the market for our Common Stock OUR STOCK HISTORICALLY HAS BEEN THINLY TRADED. THEREFORE, STOCKHOLDERS MAY NOT BE ABLE TO SELL THEIR SHARES FREELY. While our Common Stock is listed on the Amex, the volume of trading historically has been relatively light. There can be no assurance that our historically light trading volume, or any trading volume whatsoever, will be sustained in the future. Therefore, there can be no assurance that our stockholders will be able to sell their shares of our Common Stock at the time or at the price that they desire, or at all. 16 Table of Contents ANTI-TAKEOVER PROVISIONS IN OUR CHARTER DOCUMENTS AND DELAWARE LAW COULD PREVENT OR DELAY A CHANGE IN CONTROL. Our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable by authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock. This preferred stock may be issued by the Board of Directors, on such terms as it determines, without further stockholder approval. Therefore, the Board may issue such preferred stock on terms unfavorable to a potential bidder in the event that is opposes a merger or acquisition. In addition, our classified Board of Directors may discourage such transactions by increasing the amount of time necessary to obtain majority representation on the Board. We also have implemented a stockholder rights plan and distributed rights to our stockholders. When these rights become exercisable, these rights entitle their holders to purchase one share of our Series C Junior Participating Preferred Stock at a price of $66.90 per one ten-thousandth of a share of Series C Preferred Stock. If any person or group acquires more than 15% of our Common Stock, the holders of rights (other than the person or group crossing the 15% threshold) will be able to purchase, in exchange for the $66.90 exercise price, $133.80 of our Common Stock or the stock of any company into which we are merged. Because these rights may substantially dilute stock ownership by a person or group seeking to take us over without the approval of our Board of Directors, our rights plan could make it more difficult for a person or group to take us over (or acquire significant ownership interest in us) without negotiating with our Board regarding such a transaction. Certain other provisions of our Bylaws and of Delaware law may also discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring or merging with us, even if such action were beneficial to some, or even a majority, of our stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 