Item 1A. Risk Factors. We operate in a changing environment that involves numerous known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could materially adversely affect our operations. The following highlights some of the factors that have affected, and/or in the future could affect, our operations. We have incurred significant losses from inception through 2007 and there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve and sustain future profitability. We have incurred significant losses from inception through 2007, much of which were attributable to our former business lines. Although we incurred net income of $4,356,189 during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 we may not be able to sustain profitability. A limited number of customers account for a significant portion of our total revenues. The loss of a principal customer could seriously hurt our business. Our principal sales distribution channel for our digital products is through our OEM partners. Our digital product revenue accounted for 71% and 62% of our total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. In 2008 we had two major customers, GE Healthcare and Fuji Medical Systems, with 27% and 19% of our revenues, respectively. In 2007 GE Healthcare was our major customer with 29% of our revenues. A limited number of major customers have in the past and may continue in the future to account for a significant portion of our revenues. The loss of our relationships with principal customers or a decline in sales to principal customers could materially adversely affect our business and operating results. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets related to the current national and worldwide financial crisis, which may continue indefinitely or intensify, could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, or those of our customers and suppliers. The current disruptions in the capital and credit markets may continue indefinitely or intensify, and adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, or those of our customers and suppliers. These disruptions could adversely affect our ability to draw on our revolving credit facility, which is dependent on the ability of the banks that are parties to the facility to meet their funding commitments. Those banks may not be able to meet their funding commitments to us if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to liquidity needed to conduct or expand our business, conduct acquisitions or make other discretionary investments. Such disruptions may also adversely impact the capital needs of our customers and suppliers, which, in turn, could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. 18 If goodwill and/or other intangible assets that we have recorded in connection with our acquisitions become impaired, we could have to take significant charges against earnings. In connection with the accounting for our acquisitions we have recorded, or will record, a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets. Under current accounting guidelines, we must assess, at least annually and potentially more frequently, whether the value of goodwill and other intangible assets has been impaired. Any reduction or impairment of the value of goodwill or other intangible assets will result in a charge against earnings which could materially adversely affect our reported results of operations in future periods. Our business is dependent upon future market growth and acceptance of full field digital mammography systems and digital computer aided detection products and advanced image analysis and workflow solutions for use with CT and MRI. Our future business is substantially dependent on the continued growth in the market for full field digital mammography systems and digital computer aided detection products and advanced image analysis and workflow solutions for use with CT and MRI. The market for these products may not continue to develop or may develop at a slower rate than we anticipate due to a variety of factors, including, the significant cost associated with the procurement of full field digital mammography systems and CAD products and CT and MRI systems, the generally weak economic conditions and the reliance on third party insurance reimbursement. In addition we may not be able to successfully develop or obtain FDA clearance for our proposed product. We may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for any of the other products that we may consider developing. We have received FDA approvals only for our currently offered CAD products. Before we are able to commercialize any other product, we must obtain regulatory approvals for each indicated use for that product. The process for satisfying these regulatory requirements is lengthy and costly and will require us to comply with complex standards for research and development, clinical trials, testing, manufacturing, quality control, labeling, and promotion of products. We may not be able to obtain FDA or other required regulatory approval and market any further products we may develop during the time we anticipate, or at all. Our quarterly operating and financial results and our gross margins are likely to fluctuate significantly in future periods. Our quarterly and annual operating and financial results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from period to period. Our revenues and results of operations may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors that are outside of our control including, but not limited to, general economic conditions, the timing of orders from our OEM partners, our OEM partners ability to manufacture and ship their digital mammography systems, our timely receipt by the FDA for the clearance to market our products, our ability to timely engage other OEM partners for the sale of our products, the timing of product enhancements and new product introductions by us or our competitors, the pricing of our products, changes in customers’ budgets, competitive conditions and the possible deferral of revenue under our revenue recognition policies. 19 We may need additional financing to implement our strategy and expand our business. We may need additional debt or equity financing beyond any amounts generally available to us to pursue our strategy and increase revenue or to finance our business. Any additional financing that we need may not be available and, if available, may not be available on terms that are acceptable to us. Our failure to renew our existing credit facility or obtain any additional financing on a timely basis, or on economically favorable terms, could prevent us from continuing our strategy or from responding to changing business or economic conditions, and could cause us to experience difficulty in withstanding adverse operating results or prevent us from competing effectively. Changes in or non-reimbursement of procedures by Medicare or other third-party payers may adversely affect our business. In the United States, Medicare and a number of commercial third-party payers provide reimbursements for the use of CAD in connection with mammography screening and diagnostics. In the future, however, these reimbursements may be unavailable, reduced or inadequate due to changes in applicable legislation or regulations, changes in attitudes toward the use of mammograms for broad screening to detect breast cancer or due to changes in the reimbursement policies of third-party payers. In 2006, the Center for Medicare Services announced an approximately 10% reduction for mammography CAD reimbursement beginning in 2007. We anticipate there is a risk of further reductions. As a result, healthcare providers may be unwilling to purchase our CAD products or any of our future products, which could significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. With respect to our proposed CTC CAD solution, we believe that the ACRIN Study coupled with the 2008 consensus guidelines for screening for CRC are likely to increase the utilization of CTC. The U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid has initiated a National Coverage Determination process for CTC. A favorable determination is likely to increase the utilization of virtual colonoscopy or CTC while an unfavorable determination will likely not increase the utilization or increase the utilization at a slower pace which could adversely affect our proposed CTC CAD solution. There is no guaranty that any of the products which we are developing or are contemplating developing will become eligible for reimbursements or health insurance coverage at favorable rates or even at all or maintain eligibility. 20 We cannot be certain of the future effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting or the impact of the same on our operations or the market price for our common stock. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to include in our Annual Report on Form 10-K our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Furthermore, our independent registered public accounting firm is required to audit our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and separately report on whether it believes we maintain, in all material respects, effective internal controls over financial reporting. We have dedicated a significant amount of time and resources to ensure compliance with this legislation for the year ended December 31, 2008 and will continue to do so for future fiscal periods. Although we believe that we currently have adequate internal control procedures in place, we cannot be certain that future material changes to our internal controls over financial reporting will be effective. If we cannot adequately maintain the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results and the market price of our common stock. Our business is subject to The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, and changes to or violations of these regulations could negatively impact our revenues. HIPAA mandates, among other things, the adoption of standards to enhance the efficiency and simplify the administration of the nation’s healthcare system. HIPAA requires the United States Department of Health and Human Services to adopt standards for electronic transactions and code sets for basic healthcare transactions such as payment, eligibility and remittance advices, or “transaction standards,” privacy of individually identifiable health information, or “privacy standards,” security of individually identifiable health information, or “security standards,” electronic signatures, as well as unique identifiers for providers, employers, health plans and individuals and enforcement. Final regulations have been issued by DHHS for the privacy standards, certain of the transaction standards and security standards. As a covered entity, we are required to comply in our operations with these standards and are subject to significant civil and criminal penalties for failure to do so. In addition, in connection with providing services to customers that also are healthcare providers, we are required to provide satisfactory written assurances to those customers that we will provide those services in accordance with the privacy standards and security standards. HIPAA has and will require significant and costly changes for us and others in the healthcare industry. Compliance with the privacy standards became mandatory in April 2003 and compliance with the security standards became mandatory in April 2005. Like other businesses subject to HIPAA regulations, we cannot fully predict the total financial or other impact of these regulations on us. The costs associated with our ongoing compliance could be substantial, which could negatively impact our profitability. 21 The markets for many of our products are subject to changing technology. The markets for many products we sell are subject to changing technology, new product introductions and product enhancements, and evolving industry standards. The introduction or enhancement of products embodying new technology or the emergence of new industry standards could render our existing products obsolete or result in short product life cycles or our inability to sell our products without offering a significant discount. Accordingly, our ability to compete is in part dependent on our ability to continually offer enhanced and improved products. We depend upon a limited number of suppliers and manufacturers for our products, and certain components in our products may be available from a sole or limited number of suppliers. Our products are generally either manufactured and assembled for us by a sole manufacturer, by a limited number of manufacturers or assembled by us from supplies we obtain from a limited number of suppliers. Critical components required to manufacture our products, whether by outside manufacturers or directly by us, may be available from a sole or limited number of component suppliers. We generally do not have long-term arrangements with any of our manufacturers or suppliers. The loss of a sole or key manufacturer or supplier would impair our ability to deliver products to our customers in a timely manner and would adversely affect our sales and operating results. Our business would be harmed if any of our manufacturers or suppliers could not meet our quality and performance specifications and quantity and delivery requirements. Our products and manufacturing facilities are subject to extensive regulation with potentially significant costs for compliance. Our CAD systems for the computer aided detection of cancer are medical devices subject to extensive regulation by the FDA under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. In addition, our manufacturing operations are subject to FDA regulation and we are also subject to FDA regulations covering labeling, adverse event reporting, and the FDA’s general prohibition against promoting products for unapproved or off-label uses. Our failure to fully comply with applicable regulations could result in the issuance of warning letters, non-approvals, suspensions of existing approvals, civil penalties and criminal fines, product seizures and recalls, operating restrictions, injunctions, and criminal prosecution. Moreover, unanticipated changes in existing regulatory requirements or adoption of new requirements could increase our application, operating and compliance burdens and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Sales of our CAD products in certain countries outside of the United States are also subject to extensive regulatory approvals. Obtaining and maintaining foreign regulatory approvals is an expensive and time consuming process. We cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals timely or at all in any foreign country in which we plan to market our CAD products, and if we fail to receive such approvals, our ability to generate revenue may be significantly diminished. 22 Our products may be recalled even after we have received FDA or other governmental approval or clearance. If the safety or efficacy of our products is called into question, the FDA and similar governmental authorities in other countries may require us to recall our products, even if our product received approval or clearance by the FDA or a similar governmental body. Such a recall would divert the focus of our management and our financial resources and could materially and adversely affect our reputation with customers and our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on intellectual property and proprietary rights to maintain our competitive position and may not be able to protect these rights. We rely heavily on proprietary technology that we protect primarily through licensing arrangements, patents, trade secrets, proprietary know-how and non-disclosure agreements. There can be no assurance that any pending or future patent applications will be granted or that any current or future patents, regardless of whether we are an owner or a licensee of the patent, will not be challenged, rendered unenforceable, invalidated, or circumvented or that the rights will provide a competitive advantage to us. There can also be no assurance that our trade secrets or non-disclosure agreements will provide meaningful protection of our proprietary information. There can also be no assurance that others will not independently develop similar technologies or duplicate any technology developed by us or that our technology will not infringe upon patents or other rights owned by others. In addition, in the future, we may be required to assert infringement claims against third parties, and there can be no assurance that one or more parties will not assert infringement claims against us. Any resulting litigation or proceeding could result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our management personnel, whether or not such litigation or proceeding is determined in our favor. In addition, to the extent that any of our intellectual property and proprietary rights were ever deemed to violate the proprietary rights of others in any litigation or proceeding or as a result of any claim, we may be prevented from using them, which could cause a termination of our ability to sell our products. Litigation could also result in a judgment or monetary damages being levied against us. We may be exposed to significant product liability for which we may not be able to procure sufficient insurance coverage. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks which are inherent in the testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of medical devices. If available at all, product liability insurance for the medical device industry generally is expensive. Our product liability and general liability insurance coverage may not be adequate for us to avoid or limit our liability exposure and adequate insurance coverage may not be available in sufficient amounts or at a reasonable cost in the future. In any event, extensive product liability claims could be costly to defend and/or costly to resolve and could harm our reputation and business. 23 Our future prospects depend on our ability to retain current key employees and attract additional qualified personnel. Our success depends in large part on the continued service of our executive officers and other key employees. We may not be able to retain the services of our executive officers and other key employees. The loss of executive officers or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, in order to support our continued growth, we will be required to effectively recruit, develop and retain additional qualified personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain additional necessary personnel, it could delay or hinder our plans for growth. Competition for such personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully attract, assimilate or retain sufficiently qualified personnel. The failure to retain and attract necessary personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We distribute our products in highly competitive markets. We operate in highly competitive and rapidly changing markets that contain competitive products available from nationally and internationally recognized companies. Many of these competitors have significantly greater financial, technical and human resources than us and are well established. In addition, some companies have developed or may develop technologies or products that could compete with the products we manufacture and distribute or that would render our products obsolete or noncompetitive. In addition, our competitors may achieve patent protection, regulatory approval, or product commercialization that would limit our ability to compete with them. These and other competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our international operations expose us to various risks, any number of which could harm our business. During the past year our sales of product outside of the United States has increased. We are subject to the risks inherent in conducting business across national boundaries, any one of which could adversely impact our business. In addition to currency fluctuations, these risks include, among other things: economic downturns; changes in or interpretations of local law, governmental policy or regulation; restrictions on the transfer of funds into or out of the country; varying tax systems; and government protectionism. One or more of the foregoing factors could impair our current or future operations and, as a result, harm our overall business. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock. We have not paid cash dividends on our common stock in the past, and we do not intend to do so in the foreseeable future. Any payment of dividends will be in the sole discretion of our Board of Directors. 24 The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile which could reduce the market price of our common stock. The publicly traded shares of our common stock have experienced, and may experience in the future, significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility could reduce the market price of our common stock without regard to our operating performance. In addition, the trading price of our common stock could change significantly in response to actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results, announcements by us or our competitors, factors affecting the medical imaging industry generally, changes in national or regional economic conditions, changes in securities analysts' estimates for us or our competitors' or industry's future performance or general market conditions, making it more difficult for shares of our common stock to be sold at a favorable price or at all. The market price of our common stock could also be reduced by general market price declines or market volatility in the future or future declines or volatility in the prices of stocks for companies in our industry. Future sales of shares of our common stock may cause the prevailing market price of our shares to decrease and could harm our ability to raise additional capital. We have previously issued a substantial number of shares of common stock, which are eligible for resale under Rule 144 of the Securities Act of 1933, and may become freely tradable. In addition, shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of our convertible debt are also eligible for sale under Rule 144. We have also registered shares that are issuable upon the exercise of options and warrants. If holders of options or warrants choose to exercise their purchase rights and sell shares of common stock in the public market, or if holders of currently restricted common stock or common stock issuable upon conversion of convertible debt choose to sell such shares of common stock in the public market under Rule 144 or otherwise, or attempt to publicly sell such shares all at once or in a short time period, the prevailing market price for our common stock may decline. The sale of shares of common stock issued upon the exercise of our securities could also dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders. Provisions in our corporate charter and in Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, discourage a takeover and adversely affect existing stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the board of directors to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock. The preferred stock may be issued in one or more series, the terms of which may be determined at the time of issuance by our board of directors, without further action by stockholders, and may include, among other things, voting rights (including the right to vote as a series on particular matters), preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion and redemption rights, and sinking fund provisions. Although there are currently no shares of preferred stock outstanding, future holders of preferred stock may have rights superior to our common stock and such rights could also be used to restrict our ability to merge with, or sell our assets to a third party. We are also subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which could prevent us from engaging in a “business combination” with a 15% or greater stockholder” for a period of three years from the date such person acquired that status unless appropriate board or stockholder approvals are obtained. 25 These provisions could deter unsolicited takeovers or delay or prevent changes in our control or management, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over the then current market price. These provisions may also limit the ability of stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests. Item1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 