Item 1A. Risk Factors. There are certain risks and uncertainties in our business that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and in connection with the forward-looking statements contained in this Transition Report on Form 10-K. Any of these risks could materially adversely affect our business, our operating results, or our financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made. Our North America business, which is our primary business, is dependent on our ability to continue sourcing products from outside North America. We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities in North America and depend upon independent third parties to manufacture all of our products. During the 2006 transition period, nearly 9 Table of Contents 100% of our products were manufactured in China. The inability of our Chinese manufacturers to ship orders of our products in a timely manner or to meet our quality standards could cause us to miss customer delivery date requirements and could result in cancellation of orders, refusals to accept deliveries, or harm to our ongoing business relationships. Furthermore, because quality is a leading factor when customers and retailers accept or reject goods, any decline in the quality of the products produced by our Chinese manufacturers could be detrimental not only to a particular order but to future relationships with our customers. We compete with other companies for the production capacity of our manufacturers. Some of these competitors have greater financial and other resources than we have and may have an advantage in the competition for production from these manufacturers. If we experience a significant increase in demand for our products or if one of our existing manufacturers must be replaced, we may have to find additional third-party manufacturing capacity. There can be no assurance that this additional capacity will be available when required or will be available on terms that are similar to the terms that we have with our existing manufacturers or that are otherwise acceptable to us. If it is necessary for us to replace one or more of our manufacturers, particularly one that we rely on for a substantial portion of our products, we may experience an adverse financial or operational impact, such as increased costs for replacement manufacturing capacity or delays in distribution and delivery of our products to our customers, which could cause us to lose customers or revenues because of late shipments. Our international manufacturing and distribution operations are subject to the risks of doing business abroad. We purchase nearly 100% of our products for the North America market from overseas, primarily China, and we expect to do so in the future. We also market our products in several countries throughout the world outside North America, primarily Western Europe. This international sourcing and distribution subjects us to the risks of doing business abroad. These risks include: • the impact on product development, sourcing or manufacturing as a result of public health risks, particularly the potential impact of an outbreak of SARs or bird flu in China or other countries where we obtain or market our products; • acts of war and terrorism; • social and political disturbances and instability and similar events; • strikes or other labor disputes; • export duties, import controls, tariffs, quotas and other trade barriers; • shipping and transport problems; • increased expenses, particularly those impacted by recent increases in oil prices; • fluctuations in currency values; and • general economic conditions in overseas markets. Because we rely on Chinese manufacturers for a substantial portion of our product needs, any disruption in our relationships with these manufacturers could adversely affect our operations. While we believe these relationships are strong, if trade relations between the United States and China deteriorate or are threatened by instability, our business could be adversely affected. Although we believe that we could find alternative manufacturing sources, there can be no assurance that these sources would be available on terms that are favorable to us or comparable to those with our current manufacturers. Furthermore, a material change in the valuation of the Chinese currency could adversely impact our product cost, resulting in a significant negative impact on our results of operations. 10 Table of Contents Our business faces cost pressures, which could affect our business results. While we rely on third party manufacturers as the source of our products, the cost of these products depends, in part, on these manufacturers’ cost of raw materials, labor and energy costs. Thus, our own costs are subject to fluctuations, particularly due to changes in raw materials and cost of labor in the locations where our products are manufactured, foreign exchange and interest rates. Our concentration of customers could have a material adverse effect on us, and our success is dependent on the success of our customers. As a result of the continuing consolidation in the retail industry, our customer base has decreased, thus increasing the concentration of our customers. Our largest customer, Wal-Mart, accounted for approximately 41.5% of our consolidated net sales in the 2006 transition period and 46.5% during the comparable six month period in fiscal 2005. Most of the Company’s sales with Wal-Mart are not seasonal in nature, as compared to the sales with the rest of Company’s customers. Thus, the high concentration of our business with Wal-Mart during these reporting periods reflects the high seasonality of our business. Wal-Mart and J.C. Penney Company combined accounted for over 40% of our consolidated net sales in fiscal 2005. If either one of these customers reduced or discontinued its product purchases from us, it would adversely affect our results of operations. Additionally, in recent years, several major department stores have experienced consolidation and ownership changes. In the future, retailers may undergo changes that could decrease the number of stores that carry our products, which could adversely affect our results. Our success is also impacted by the financial results and success of our customers. If any of our major customers, or a substantial portion of our customers, generally, experiences a significant downturn in its business, fails to remain committed to our products or brands or realigns its affiliations with its suppliers or decides to purchase products directly from the manufacturer, then these customers may reduce or discontinue purchases from us which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are also subject to the buying plans of our customers and if our customers do not inform us of changes in their buying plans until it is too late for us to make necessary adjustments to our product lines, we may be adversely affected. We do not have long-term contracts with our customers and sales normally occur on an order-by-order basis. As a result, customers can generally terminate their relationship with us at any time. The footwear industry is highly competitive. The footwear business is a highly competitive business and if we fail to compete effectively, we may lose market position. We operate in a relatively small segment of the overall footwear industry, supplying comfort footwear for use at- and around-the-home. We believe that we are the world’s largest marketer of comfort footwear for use at- and around-the-home. However, this is a very small component of the overall footwear industry. In recent years, companies that are engaged in other areas of the footwear industry and apparel companies have begun to provide at- and around-the-home comfort footwear, and many of these competitors have substantially greater financial, distribution and marketing resources than we do. In addition, many of the retail customers for our products have sought to import competitive products directly from manufacturers in China and elsewhere for sale in their stores on a private label basis. The primary methods of competition in our industry include product design, product performance, quality, brand image, price, marketing and promotion and our ability to meet delivery commitments to retailers obtaining access to retail outlets. A major marketing or promotional success or a technical innovation by one of our competitors could adversely impact our competitive position. Our business is subject to consumer preferences, and unanticipated shifts in tastes or styles could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. The comfort footwear industry is subject to rapid changes in consumer preferences. Our performance may be hurt by our competitors’ product development, sourcing, pricing and innovation as 11 Table of Contents well as general changes in consumer tastes and preferences. The footwear industry is also subject to sudden shifts in consumer spending, and a reduction in such spending could adversely affect our results of operations. Consumer spending may be influenced by the amount of the consumer’s disposable income, which may fluctuate based on a number of factors, including general economic conditions, consumer confidence and business conditions. Further, consumer acceptance of new products may fall below expectations and may result in excess inventories or the delay of the launch of new product lines. If we inaccurately forecast consumer demand, we may experience difficulties in handling consumer orders or liquidating excess inventories and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our industry has relatively long lead times for the design and manufacture of products. Consequently, we must commit to production in advance of orders based on our forecast of consumer demands. If we fail to forecast consumer demand accurately, we may under- or over-source a product and encounter difficulty in handling customer orders or liquidating excess inventory and we may have to sell excess inventory at a reduced cost. Further, due to the fashion oriented nature of our business, rapid changes in consumer preferences lead to an increased risk of inventory obsolescence. Write-downs of excess inventories have materially impaired our financial position in the past. While we believe we have successfully managed this risk in recent years and believe we can successfully manage it in the future, our operating results will suffer if we are unable to do so. We rely on distribution centers to store and distribute our products and if there is a natural disaster or other serious disruption in any of these facilities or methods of transport, we may be unable to effectively deliver products to our customers. We rely on distribution centers in San Angelo, Texas and in Thiviers, France, as well as third-party logistics providers located in California to store our products prior to distribution to our customers. A natural disaster or other serious disruption at these facilities due to fire, earthquake, flood, terrorist attack, or any other cause could damage a portion of our inventory or impair our ability to timely deliver our products to our customers and could negatively impact our operating results. Although we have insured our warehoused inventory at its wholesale value, our insurance does not protect against losses due to transport difficulties, cancelled orders or damaged customer relationships that could result from a major disruption at our distribution facilities. Further, we are dependent on methods of transport to move our products to and from these facilities. Circumstances may arise where we are unable to find available or reasonably priced shipping to the United States or Europe from our manufacturers in China or road and rail transport to our customers in the United States, Europe and Canada. If methods of transport are disrupted or if costs increase sharply or suddenly, due to the recent price increases of oil in the world markets or other inflationary pressures, we may not be able to affordably or timely deliver our products to our customers and our results of operations may be adversely affected. The seasonal nature of our business makes management more difficult, and severely reduces cash flow and liquidity during certain parts of the year. Our business is highly seasonal and much of the results of our operations are dependent on strong performance during the last six months of the calendar year, particularly the holiday selling season. The majority of our marketing and sales activities take place at showings in the spring and fall. Our inventory is largest in the early fall to support our customers’ requirements for the fall and holiday selling seasons. Historically, our cash position is strongest in the last six months of the calendar year. Unfavorable economic conditions affecting retailers during the fall and through the holidays in any year could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations for the year. We can offer no assurance that the seasonal nature of our business will diminish in the future. 12 Table of Contents We must satisfy minimum covenants regarding our financial condition in order to be able to borrow under our credit facility and we must obtain an extension of our existing credit facility or obtain a new credit facility effective April, 2007. Our current credit facility contains certain minimum covenants regarding our financial condition and financial performance. We have remained in compliance with all of these covenants since we entered into the facility on March 31, 2005, and we believe that we will continue to comply with these covenants throughout the remainder of the term of the credit facility agreement, which will end on March 31, 2007. We will need to obtain an extension of our existing credit facility or enter into a new facility effective April 1, 2007. While we believe we will be able to secure such an extension or a new credit facility, our failure to do so would have a significant adverse material impact on our financial condition. We depend on retaining qualified personnel whose loss would adversely impact our business. Our success is largely dependent on the efforts of certain key executives. Greg Tunney recently assumed the responsibilities of the Chief Executive Officer with the departure of our former Chief Executive Officer, Thomas Von Lehman. Our ability to successfully manage the succession of our senior management may affect our business and operations. Although we have entered into employment agreements with our executive officers, they have specific skills that are in demand and the loss of their services would adversely affect our operations. If our dispute with the IRS is resolved unfavorably to us, we may incur a substantial liability. We are currently disputing proposed adjustments by the IRS, which, if sustained, would result in us owing an additional tax obligation of approximately $4 million for tax years 1998 through 2002. Any additional tax liability for those years would be offset to the extent of creating additional net operating loss carryforwards that could be utilized in future years to the extent of taxable income. Although we believe that the resolution of this dispute will not have a material effect on the Company, there is a possibility that we could incur a substantial liability. We are vigorously contesting the proposed adjustments. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. No response required. 