Item 1A. Risk Factors. There are certain risks and uncertainties in our business that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and in connection with the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report. Any of these risks could materially adversely affect our business, our operating results, or our financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made. Our North America business, which is our primary business, is dependent on our ability to continue sourcing products from outside North America. We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities in North America and depend upon independent third parties to manufacture all of our products. During fiscal 2007, 100% of our products were manufactured in China. Going forward, we expect to source our Superga** branded products from third-party manufacturers primarily located in Vietnam. The inability of our third-party manufacturers to ship orders of our products in a timely manner or to meet our quality standards could cause us to miss customer delivery date requirements and could result in cancellation of orders, refusals to accept deliveries, or harm to our ongoing business relationships. Furthermore, because quality is a leading factor when customers and retailers accept or reject goods, any decline in the quality of the products produced by our third-party manufacturers could be detrimental not only to a particular order but to future relationships with our customers. We compete with other companies for the production capacity of our third-party manufacturers. Some of these competitors have greater financial and other resources than we have and may have an advantage in the competition for production from these manufacturers. If we experience a significant increase in demand for our products or if one of our existing third-party manufacturers must be replaced, 12 Table of Contents we may have to find additional third-party manufacturing capacity. There can be no assurance that this additional capacity will be available when required or will be available on terms that are similar to the terms that we have with our existing third-party manufacturers or that are otherwise acceptable to us. If it is necessary for us to replace one or more of our third-party manufacturers, particularly one that we rely on for a substantial portion of our products, we may experience an adverse financial or operational impact, such as increased costs for replacement manufacturing capacity or delays in distribution and delivery of our products to our customers, which could cause us to lose customers or revenues because of late shipments. Our international manufacturing operations are subject to the risks of doing business abroad. We purchase 100% of our products for the North America market from China, and, with the exception of the Superga** brand products to be purchased from Vietnam, we expect to purchase our products from China at approximately the same level in the future. This international sourcing subjects us to the risks of doing business abroad. These risks include: • the impact on product development, sourcing or manufacturing as a result of public health and contamination risks in China or other countries where we obtain or market our products; • acts of war and terrorism; • social and political disturbances and instability and similar events; • strikes or other labor disputes; • export duties, import controls, tariffs, quotas and other trade barriers; • shipping and transport problems; • increased expenses, particularly those impacted by recent increases in oil prices; • fluctuations in currency values; and • general economic conditions in overseas markets. Because we rely on Chinese third-party manufacturers for a substantial portion of our product needs, any disruption in our relationships with these manufacturers could adversely affect our operations. While we believe these relationships are strong, if trade relations between the United States and China deteriorate or are threatened by instability, our business could be adversely affected. Although we believe that we could find alternative manufacturing sources, there can be no assurance that these sources would be available on terms that are favorable to us or comparable to those with our current manufacturers. Furthermore, a material change in the valuation of the Chinese currency could adversely impact our product costs, resulting in a significant negative impact on our results of operations. Our business faces cost pressures, which could affect our business results. While we rely on third-party manufacturers as the source of our products, the cost of these products depends, in part, on these manufacturers’ cost of raw materials, labor and energy costs. Thus, our own costs are subject to fluctuations, particularly due to changes in the cost of raw materials and cost of labor in the locations where our products are manufactured, foreign exchange and interest rates. Our concentration of customers could have a material adverse effect on us, and our success is dependent on the success of our customers. As a result of the continuing consolidation in the retail industry, our customer base has decreased, thus increasing the concentration of our customers. Our largest customer, Wal-Mart, accounted for approximately 33% of our consolidated net sales in fiscal 2007 and 35% in the comparable 2006 fifty-two-week period. Most of the Company’s sales to Wal-Mart are not seasonal in nature, as compared to the sales to the rest of Company’s customers. Wal-Mart and J.C. Penney Company, Inc. combined accounted for over 40% of our consolidated net sales in fiscal 2007. If either one of these customers reduced or discontinued its product purchases from us, it would adversely affect our results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Additionally, in recent years, several major department stores have experienced consolidation and ownership changes. In the future, retailers may undergo changes that could decrease the number of stores that carry our products, which could adversely affect our results. Our success is also impacted by the financial results and success of our customers. If any of our major customers, or a substantial portion of our customers, generally, experiences a significant downturn in its business, fails to remain committed to our products or brands or realigns its affiliations with its suppliers or decides to purchase products directly from the manufacturer, then these customers may reduce or discontinue purchases from us which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are also subject to the buying plans of our customers, and if our customers do not inform us of changes in their buying plans until it is too late for us to make necessary adjustments to our product lines, we may be adversely affected. We do not have long-term contracts with our customers and sales normally occur on an order-by-order basis. As a result, customers can generally terminate their relationship with us at any time. The footwear industry is highly competitive. The accessory footwear product category in which we do most of our business is a highly competitive business. If we fail to compete effectively, we may lose market position. We operate in a relatively small segment of the overall footwear industry, supplying accessory footwear products. We believe that we are one of the world’s largest marketers of accessory footwear products. However, this is a very small component of the overall footwear industry. In recent years, companies that are engaged in other areas of the footwear industry and apparel companies have begun to provide accessory footwear, and many of these competitors have substantially greater financial, distribution and marketing resources than we do. In addition, many of the retail customers for our products have sought to import competitive products directly from manufacturers in China and elsewhere for sale in their stores on a private label basis. The primary methods we use to compete in our industry include product design, product performance, quality, brand image, price, marketing and promotion and our ability to meet delivery commitments to retailers obtaining access to retail outlets. A major marketing or promotional success or a technical innovation by one of our competitors could adversely impact our competitive position. Our business is subject to consumer preferences, and unanticipated shifts in tastes or styles could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. The accessory footwear product industry is subject to rapid changes in consumer preferences. Our performance may be hurt by our competitors’ product development, sourcing, pricing and innovation as well as general changes in consumer tastes and preferences. The accessory footwear product industry is also subject to sudden shifts in consumer spending, and a reduction in such spending could adversely affect our results of operations. Consumer spending may be influenced by the amount of the consumer’s disposable income, which may fluctuate based on a number of factors, including general economic conditions, consumer confidence and business conditions. Further, consumer acceptance of new products may fall below expectations and may result in excess inventories or the delay of the launch of new product lines. If we inaccurately forecast consumer demand, we may experience difficulties in handling consumer orders or liquidating excess inventories and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our industry has relatively long lead times for the design and manufacture of products. Consequently, we must commit to production in advance of orders based on our forecast of consumer demands. If we fail to forecast consumer demand accurately, we may under- or over-source a product and encounter difficulty in handling customer orders or liquidating excess inventory and we may have to sell excess inventory at a reduced cost. Further, due to the fashion-oriented nature of our products, rapid changes in consumer preferences lead to an increased risk of inventory obsolescence. Write-downs of excess inventories have materially impaired our financial position in the past. While we believe we have successfully managed this risk in recent years and believe we can successfully manage it in the future, our operating results will suffer if we are unable to do so. 14 Table of Contents We rely on distribution centers to store and distribute our products and if there is a natural disaster or other serious disruption in any of these facilities or methods of transport, we may be unable to effectively deliver products to our customers. We rely on our own distribution center in San Angelo, Texas and through the end of fiscal 2007, a Fargeot distribution center in Thiviers, France, as well as a third-party logistics provider located in California to store our products prior to distribution to our customers. A natural disaster or other serious disruption at these facilities due to fire, earthquake, flood, terrorist attack, or any other cause could damage a portion of our inventory or impair our ability to timely deliver our products to our customers and could negatively impact our operating results. Although we have insured our warehoused inventory at its wholesale value, our insurance does not protect against losses due to transport difficulties, cancelled orders or damaged customer relationships that could result from a major disruption at our distribution facilities. Further, we are dependent on methods of transport to move our products to and from these facilities. Circumstances may arise where we are unable to find available or reasonably priced shipping to the United States from our manufacturers in China or road and rail transport to our customers in the United States and Canada. If methods of transport are disrupted or if costs increase sharply or suddenly, due to the recent price increases of oil in the world markets or other inflationary pressures, we may not be able to affordably or timely deliver our products to our customers and our results of operations may be adversely affected. The seasonal nature of our business makes management more difficult, and severely reduces cash flow and liquidity during certain parts of the year. Our business is highly seasonal and much of the results of our operations are dependent on strong performance during the last six months of the calendar year, particularly the holiday selling season. The majority of our marketing and sales activities takes place at industry market week and trade shows in the spring and fall. Our inventory is largest in the early fall to support our customers’ requirements for the fall and holiday selling seasons. Historically, our cash position is strongest in the last six months of the calendar year. Unfavorable economic conditions affecting retailers during the fall and through the holidays in any year could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations for the year. Although our new business initiatives are focused on adding seasonal balance to our business, we can offer no assurance that the seasonal nature of our business will change in the future. We must satisfy minimum covenants regarding our financial condition in order to be able to borrow under our current unsecured credit facility with The Huntington National Bank. Our current unsecured credit facility with The Huntington National Bank contains certain minimum covenants regarding our financial condition and financial performance. We have remained in compliance with all of these covenants since we entered into the facility on March 29, 2007, and we believe that we will continue to comply with these covenants throughout the remainder of the term of the credit facility agreement. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. No response required. 