Item 1A. Risk Factors” of Part I of this 2011 Form 10-K occur, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. You should also know that it is impossible to predict or identify all risks and uncertainties related to our business. Consequently, no one should consider any such list to be a complete set of all potential risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect circumstances or events that occur after the date on which the statement is made to reflect unanticipated events. Any further disclosures in our filings with the SEC should also be considered. DEFINITIONS All references in this 2011 Form 10-K to “we”, “us”, “our”, and the “Company” refer to R.G. Barry Corporation, an Ohio corporation (the registrant) or, where appropriate, to R.G. Barry Corporation and its subsidiaries. The Company’s annual reporting period is either a fifty-two or fifty-three-week period (“fiscal year”) ending annually on the Saturday nearest June 30. For definitional purposes, as used herein, the terms listed below include the respective periods noted: Fiscal 2012 52 weeks ending June 30, 2012 Fiscal 2011 52 weeks ended July 2, 2011 Fiscal 2010 53 weeks ended July 3, 2010 Fiscal 2009 52 weeks ended June 27, 2009 3 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business. BUSINESS AND PRODUCTS Overview Since introducing the world’s first foam-soled, soft, washable slipper in 1947, R.G. Barry Corporation’s operating model and product focus have evolved to serve the changing marketplace. Today, we develop and market consumer products in the retail accessories category. These products include: footwear, such as slippers and sandals; foot and shoe care products, such as cushioned insoles; and handbags, tote bags and travel products. Our products are primarily sold in North America by a broad cross-section of retailers of varying size and classification. During fiscal 2011, we acquired the principal assets of two businesses that significantly transformed the profile of our Company from exclusively a marketer of accessories footwear to a marketer of accessories products sold through multiple subcategories of the accessories business. The business of Foot Petals, Inc. (“Foot Petals”), a Long Beach, California-based developer and marketer of premium insoles and comfort solutions for footwear problems, was acquired on January 27 for $14 million cash. The business of baggallini, Inc. (“Baggallini”), a Portland, Oregon-based developer and marketer of handbags, tote bags and travel products, was acquired on March 31 for approximately $33.8 million cash plus an additional $802 thousand paid subsequent to the end of fiscal 2011. This additional payment was based on certain minimum working capital at the time of closing under the terms of the purchase agreement. Beginning with the quarter ended April 2, 2011, our business was divided into two reportable segments: the Footwear segment, which includes slippers and sandals; and the Accessories segment, which includes foot and shoe care products, handbags, tote bags and travel products (see “Reporting Segments” below). Prior to this change, our business had been reported under a single segment, footwear. Approximately 85% of our consolidated net sales in fiscal 2011 came from products bearing trademarks we own. The remainder of our net sales came from products sold under licensed brand names or from products we developed and sourced for sale by retailers under their own private or exclusive labels. We use a flexible sourcing model under which many of the costs and expenses related to product procurement and distribution can expand and contract with our business needs. All of our products are produced by contract manufacturers, primarily located in the Peoples Republic of China (“China”); and a significant portion of our products are warehoused and shipped by third-party logistics providers. We adopted the flexible sourcing model for our footwear business in 2004, and the two businesses acquired during fiscal 2011 utilize similar sourcing approaches. We are an Ohio corporation with executive offices located in a Company-owned facility at 13405 Yarmouth Road N.W., Pickerington, Ohio 43147. Our telephone number is 614.864.6400, and our corporate Internet website can be accessed at www.rgbarry.com (this uniform resource locator, or URL, is an inactive textual reference only and is not intended to incorporate our website into this 2011 Form 10-K). We have been a public company since 1962. Our common shares primarily are traded on The NASDAQ Global Market (“NASDAQ-GM”) under the trading symbol DFZ, which is meant to evoke the name of our flagship slipper brand, Dearfoams*. * Denotes Company trademark registered in the United States Department of Commerce Patent and Trademark Office. 4 Table of Contents Reporting Segments Our two reporting segments – Footwear and Accessories – are comprised of three individual business units: footwear; foot and shoe care products; and handbags, tote bags and travel products. These business units are organized around specific accessories product categories and trademarked brand names that we own. We think our trademarks have significant commercial value. In general, trademarks remain valid and enforceable as long as they are used in connection with our products and services and the required registration renewals are filed. We intend to continue the use of each of our trademarks and to renew each of our registered trademarks accordingly. See additional information on segment reported results in Note (17) of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” In this 2011 Form 10-K. Each of our business units is managed by a Business Unit President, who reports to the Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer. A team of design, marketing, sales, merchandising and finance professionals supports each business unit. In-house corporate administrative, finance, human resource, information technology and logistics services (“shared services”) are used in varying degrees by all of our business units. We maintain sales offices and showrooms that are shared by our three business units at 9 East 37th Street in New York City, New York. We established our reporting segments using generally accepted aggregation criteria under which we analyzed each business unit’s products, brand names, distribution channels, customer bases, sourcing and production methods and anticipated performance. Our foot and shoe care products business unit and our handbags, tote bags and travel products business unit share similar qualitative and quantitative characteristics that lend themselves to aggregation and that differentiate them from our footwear business. We believe that utilizing these two reporting segments allows us to fairly represent our business and its financial results. Footwear Footwear is a component of the overall accessories category and a subset of the highly competitive footwear industry. According to independent industry research, annual retail sales of accessories footwear totals less than $1 billion. The category includes slippers, sandals, hybrid and active fashion footwear and slipper socks. We believe that we are one of the world’s largest marketers of accessories footwear products and estimate on an annualized basis that approximately 75% of our net sales will be represented in this segment in the foreseeable future. We have sold more than 1 billion pairs of accessory footwear under a variety of brand names since our founding in 1947. Today, Dearfoams* is our principal footwear brand. Since its introduction in 1958, Dearfoams* has, according to our proprietary consumer research, become one of the most-recognized brand names in accessories footwear. In addition to Dearfoams*, our current primary footwear brand names include Angel Treads*, DF by Dearfoams*, Utopia by Dearfoams* and Terrasoles*. We also market Levi’s** brand slippers and sandals under license from Levi Strauss & Co. In recent years, many companies that are engaged in marketing apparel and footwear have begun selling accessories footwear. Many of these competitors have significantly greater financial, distribution and marketing resources than we do. We do not, however, believe that they have committed the necessary resources to effectively compete long-term within the category. In addition, some retailers have sought to source their own accessories footwear products directly from overseas manufacturers. ** Denotes a licensor trademark registered in the United States Department of Commerce Patent and Trademark Office. 5 Table of Contents Most competitors in this segment are either privately-owned sourcing companies producing products under various licensed brand names or retailers sourcing their own private or proprietary label goods. We compete in this segment primarily on the basis of the quality, innovation and comfort of our products; price; value; service to our customers; marketing and merchandising expertise; and reputation within the trade. We believe that we are the only accessories footwear resource capable of providing the high level of comprehensive service, quality and support that we offer retailers, and we expect to continue growing our business in this segment based upon these strengths. We debut new footwear collections each spring and fall in conjunction with national retail accessory buying markets and other national trade events. We plan to continue the introduction of updated and new products in response to fashion changes, consumer taste preferences and changes in the demographic makeup of our business. Several basic footwear profiles are standard in all of our footwear brand lines. Many of these classic footwear silhouettes are in demand throughout the year. The most significant changes to these traditional products are made in response to broadly accepted fashion trends and can include slight variations in design, ornamentation, fabric and color. We have, at various times, licensed well-known brand names in an effort to spur additional growth within our Footwear segment. In March 2009, we entered into a four-year agreement with Levi Strauss & Co. to develop and market a collection of Levi’s** brand slippers and sandals for the United States market. Under this license, we agreed to certain minimum royalty payments. Levi’s brand footwear performed modestly for us during fiscal 2011. We announced our decision to exit two licensing relationships during fiscal 2011. Our arrangement with Basic Properties America, Inc., to act as exclusive North American licensee for Superga,** a canvas footwear brand, ended in May 2011; and expect to complete our final shipments to retailers of Nautica** slippers in fall 2011 under an arrangement with Nautica Apparel, Inc. to act as their exclusive accessories footwear licensee for the United States, Canada, Mexico and Puerto Rico. We also licensed certain footwear brand names we own to Olivet International, Inc., in July 2010. The five-year exclusive agreement gives Olivet the sole right to develop and market a variety of sleepwear, active wear and accessories products bearing the Dearfoams*, DF by Dearfoams*, DF Sport by Dearfoams* and Utopia by Dearfoams* trademarks in North and South American markets. Royalty payments under this agreement were modest in fiscal 2011. Our footwear products are sold through multiple retail channels including mass merchandisers, national chain stores, warehouse clubs, mid-tier department stores, specialty discount stores and internet and catalog retailers. Suggested retail prices for our footwear products range from approximately $7-to-$50 per pair, depending upon the style, retail channel and retailer mark-up. Most buyers and consumers of our footwear are adult females. We do not finance customers’ purchases beyond granting traditional payment terms at the time shipments to the retailers are made. We do grant limited return privileges and allowances to fund advertising and in-season promotional activities to certain of our footwear customers. Our direct-to-consumer footwear sales are limited to those conducted through our dearfoams.com website. Our footwear business is comprised of two components, replenishment and seasonal. In the replenishment component, retailers carry a relatively consistent, planned assortment of products on a year-round basis. These products are purchased by consumers on a repeat basis and the in-store assortment is regularly replenished by us to ensure product availability for shoppers. The seasonal component is comprised of a 6 Table of Contents variety of more fashion-forward and boxed items that generally are found in stores only during the key retail selling periods, such as the period around the Christmas holiday selling season. Approximately 70% of our annual net sales in the footwear business unit traditionally occur from July through December. We have identified the popularity of slippers as a great holiday gift item as the main reason for this heavy seasonal weighting. During fiscal 2011, we continued a multi-year, multi-million dollar advertising/marketing initiative begun in fiscal 2009 that is focused on increasing our dominance in accessories footwear and expanding the appeal of our Dearfoams* brand to a broader demographic. We also continued our use of seasonal in-store merchandisers during the critical holiday period as a tool for managing the flow of our products to the selling floor. We believe that when combined with modern automatic demand-pull replenishment systems and various other merchandising and sales techniques, the temporary merchandisers we use helps us optimize critical holiday sales. Due to the highly seasonal nature of our Footwear segment, the backlogs of unfilled footwear orders as of August month-end periods that ended on September 3, 2011, September 4, 2010 and August 29, 2009 were $34.3 million, $30.3 million and $31.5 million, respectively. The backlogs of unfilled sales orders at the end of fiscal 2011, fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009 were approximately $31.3 million, $33.4 million and $19.3 million, respectively; comparisons between years reflect differences in the timing of order receipts only and do not necessarily indicate a growth or decline in sales volume. In an effort to more effectively align our sourcing and logistics efforts with our customers’ evolving needs, we shifted our footwear procurement cycle forward by approximately eight weeks beginning with the sourcing of goods for fall/winter 2011. As a result, footwear inventory at fiscal 2011 year-end was higher than historical levels. We believe that the earlier inventory flow pattern established for the fall/winter 2011 selling season will be more representative of our future footwear operating model. We operate a footwear sourcing office in Dongguan City, China to facilitate the development and procurement of our products. Thirty-one people work out of this office. We purchase our footwear products from approximately 14 different third-party manufacturers, most of whom are located in China. Our overall experience with third-party footwear manufacturers has been very good in terms of reliability, delivery times and product quality. All of our third-party purchases are conducted on an open account basis and in U.S. Dollars. Our Dongguan City office aligns our U.S. operations and third-party suppliers to generally ensure the quality and timely delivery of our products. During fiscal 2011, we experienced difficulty with initial fall 2010 shipments to some retailers as a result of transitional issues related to the expansion of our China operations. In order to maintain on-time delivery of these shipments and to protect our reputation with retailers, we consciously incurred unplanned delivery costs that negatively impacted our planned level of profitability in fiscal 2011. The issues related to this problem have been resolved. We are dependent on methods of third-party transport to move our products from our third-party manufacturers to distribution facilities we utilize, and from those facilities to our customers. In our Footwear segment, we warehouse and distribute goods from a third-party logistics facility in Long Beach, California, and a leased distribution center we operate in San Angelo, Texas. Accessories Products Our newly-acquired business units — Foot Petals and Baggallini — collectively comprise our Accessories segment. Independent industry research indicates that the product classifications where these business units compete, foot and shoe care as well as handbags, tote bags and, travel products, represent approximately 4% and 30%, respectively, of annual accessories sales at retail. We believe that our entry into these accessories subcategories presents us with significant opportunities for profitable growth, based 7 Table of Contents upon the business units past operating performances and their sizes in relation to the markets in which they compete. Foot Petals Foot Petals was founded in 2001. It currently sells approximately 30 foot and shoe care products priced between $7 and $45, which primarily are targeted toward the foot comfort of women aged 14-to-55. Many Foot Petals products are made from high-performance urethane or similar man-made materials and various fabrics. The products generally are sold at premium, non-promotional prices and yield higher margins than those earned in our Footwear segment. Foot Petals products are sold under a variety of brand names including Foot Petals*, Fab Feet*, Glamour Toez*, Heavenly Heelz* and Killer Kushionz*. Sales to retailers are handled by a combination of Company-employed and independent sales representatives. Products also are presented to retailers at various national markets and accessories trade shows. We do not finance retailers’ purchases beyond granting traditional payment terms at the time shipments to the retailers are made. Foot Petals’ products principally are sold to consumers through upper-tier department stores, independent retailers, internet and home shopping venues. We also sell direct-to-consumer via our footpetals.com consumer website. Due in part to its non-seasonal nature, the business has minimal exposure to obsolete inventory and net sales are relatively evenly distributed across the fiscal year. The at-once replenishment nature of the Foot Petals’ business model contributes to making it a fast-turning, low inventory volume business. Foot Petals brand cushions are considered premium products within their category and carry the Seal of Acceptance of the American Podiatric Medical Association. Among our major competitors are Dr. Scholl’s®, Implus® Footcare and Profoot®. Since acquiring Foot Petals, we have assisted our business unit’s management team in developing brand extensions for sale through mass merchandisers. We also have provided a variety of professional planning and management tools and replaced previously outsourced business functions with our shared services. Foot Petals’ products primarily are manufactured by a third-party supplier based in Ohio, and warehoused and distributed through a third-party logistics provider located adjacent to the supplier’s manufacturing plant. We rely on third-party transport to move Foot Petals products to our customers. In addition to showroom and office space in our New York City location, Foot Petals operates an administrative office and showroom in Long Beach, California and a sales office in Glen Rock, New Jersey. Baggallini Baggallini was founded in 1995. Its product line of more than 60 styles of handbags, tote bags and travel products retail between $16 and $90, and primarily are targeted to women aged 34-to-55. Baggallini products are recognized for their lightweight construction and intelligent, solution-oriented organization. They are primarily made from durable nylons and other man-made materials and are sold at premium, non-promotional prices. The Baggallini business unit generates higher margins than those earned in our Footwear segment. Baggallini’s principal trademarks include baggallini* and Le Bagg*. Sales are handled by a combination of Company-employed and independent sales representatives. Products also are presented to retailers at various gift and trade shows, conducted throughout the country at various times of the year. We do not finance retailers’ purchases beyond granting traditional payment terms at the time shipments to the retailers are made. 8 Table of Contents Baggallini’s products primarily are sold to consumers through a network of several thousand independent retail locations, non-promotional chain stores and on-line retailers. We currently do no direct-to-consumer sales. Branded competitors include Kipling® and LeSportsac®. The business is relatively non-seasonal and evenly distributed across the fiscal year. Since our acquisition of Baggallini, we have assisted the business unit’s management team, primarily in developing marketing and branding strategies and have supported them with our shared services. All Baggallini products are developed and sourced through a network of four contract manufacturers in China. This business unit utilizes a sourcing agent who is not affiliated with our China-based footwear sourcing operations. As in our Footwear segment, all of Baggallini’s third-party purchases are conducted on an open account basis and in U.S. Dollars. We are dependent on methods of third-party transport to move Baggallini products from contract manufacturers to our leased company-operated distribution facility in Oregon, and from our Oregon distribution center to retailers. Although some of the business unit’s products contain elements of fashion, they focus more on function, thus lessening our exposure to obsolete inventory resulting from changing fashion trends. The business unit traditionally has operated with an inventory level that ensures quick customer order fulfillment and replenishment. In addition to office and showroom space in our New York City location, Baggallini operates a leased administrative office and showroom in Milwaukie, Oregon. Ethics, Human Rights & the Environment It is a fundamental goal of the Company to incorporate our core values of integrity, quality, innovation, leadership, teamwork and community into all aspects of our business. We demand the highest business and personal ethical standards, as well as compliance with all applicable governmental laws, rules and regulations from all of our team members and from all with whom we do business. We only do business with suppliers and vendors who operate legally and ethically. We are committed to protecting human rights and we require our suppliers to fairly compensate their employees by: providing wages and benefits that meet or exceed applicable local and national laws; scheduling reasonable work hours; and providing reasonable days off, vacation and leave privileges. Many of our key customers conduct their own independent human rights audits of our third-party suppliers and share their findings with us. We also conduct direct supplier audits under licensed product agreements held by the Company. The Company is C-TPAT (Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism) certified, which means we comply with the U.S. Government’s standards to ensure that our shipments out of other countries are safe from tampering during the exporting process. A part of this certification process includes periodic inspections of our foreign manufacturers’ factories to ensure safe, fair working conditions for employees. We are concerned about preserving and protecting our environment. We strive to comply with all federal, state and local environmental protection laws at all Company locations. Compliance with provisions regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, has not had a material effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. We believe that the nature of our operations has little, if any, environmental impact, and we anticipate no material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities for the foreseeable future. We encourage our team members to conserve energy and other resources, to reduce the amount of waste the Company produces, and to participate actively in recycling efforts. We also expect all of our suppliers to comply with appropriate environmental laws. 9 Table of Contents MATERIAL RESEARCH AND DESIGN DEVELOPMENT During fiscal 2011, all of our design and product development activities were conducted in the United States of America and China and, for the most part, related to fabric selection and product testing in our Footwear segment. The principal raw materials used in our footwear, foot care and handbag, tote bag and travel products are textile fabrics, threads, foams, nylons, other synthetic products, recycled micro fleece, mesh and high performance urethane. Our raw materials also include organic materials such as cotton and bamboo fibers as well as packaging materials and are available from a wide range of suppliers. The Company has not experienced any significant difficulty in obtaining raw materials from our respective suppliers in China. During fiscal 2011, fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009, we spent approximately $1.9 million, $2.3 million and $2.4 million, respectively, to support the design and development of new products and make improvements in existing products. These design and development activities were primarily supported by 14 full-time employees. SIGNIFICANT CUSTOMERS As our business base has grown in recent years, the percentage of net sales from our largest customers has declined relative to our consolidated net sales. Walmart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates accounted for 32%, 35% and 38% of our consolidated net sales during fiscal 2011, fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009, respectively. Our sales to Walmart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates are primarily in our Footwear segment and are less seasonal in nature than sales to many of our other footwear customers. J.C. Penney Company, Inc. accounted for 10% of our consolidated net sales during both fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009. FACILITIES Our principal administrative, sales and distribution facilities are described above and more fully below under “