Item 1A. Risk Factors. There are certain risks and uncertainties in our business that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and in connection with the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report. Any of these risks could materially adversely affect our business, our operating results, our financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made. 8 Table of Contents Our business is dependent on our ability to continue sourcing products from outside North America. We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and depend upon independent third parties to manufacture all of our products. During fiscal 2005, 100% of our products were manufactured in China. The inability of our Chinese manufacturers to ship orders of our products in a timely manner or to meet our quality standards could cause us to miss customer delivery date requirements and could result in cancellation of orders, refusals to accept deliveries, or harm to our ongoing business relationships. Further, because quality is a leading factor when customers and retailers accept or reject goods, any decline in the quality of the products produced by our Chinese manufacturers could be detrimental not only to a particular order but to future relationships with our customers. We compete with other companies for the production capacity of our manufacturers. Some of these competitors have greater financial and other resources than we have and may have an advantage in the competition for production from these manufacturers. If we experience a significant increase in demand for our products or if one of our existing manufacturers must be replaced, we may have to find additional third-party manufacturing capacity. There can be no assurance that this additional capacity will be available when required or will be available on terms that are similar to the terms that we have with our existing manufacturers or that are otherwise acceptable to us. If it is necessary for us to replace one or more of our manufacturers, particularly one that we rely on for a substantial portion of our products, we may experience an adverse financial or operational impact, such as increased costs for replacement manufacturing capacity or delays in distribution and delivery of our products to our customers, which could cause us to lose customers or revenues because of late shipments. Our international manufacturing and distribution operations are subject to the risks of doing business abroad. We currently purchase all of our products from overseas, specifically China, and we expect to do so in the future. We also currently market our products in several countries throughout the world, primarily in Western Europe. This international sourcing and distribution subjects us to the risks of doing business abroad. These risks include: • the impact on product development, sourcing or manufacturing as a result of public health risks, particularly the potential impact of an outbreak of SARs or bird flu in China or other countries where we obtain or market our products; • acts of war and terrorism; • social and political disturbances and instability and similar events; • strikes or other labor disputes; • export duties, import controls, tariffs, quotas and other trade barriers; • shipping and transport problems; • fluctuations in currency values; and • general economic conditions in overseas markets. Because we completely rely on Chinese manufacturers for our products, any disruption in our relationships with these manufacturers could adversely affect our operations. While we believe these relationships are strong, if trade relations between the United States and China deteriorate or are threatened by instability, our business could be adversely affected. Although we believe that we could find alternative manufacturing sources, there can be no assurance that these sources would be available on terms that are favorable to us or comparable to those with our current manufacturers. Further, a material change in the valuation of the Chinese currency could adversely impact our product cost, resulting in a negative impact on our results of operations. 9 Table of Contents Loss of customers could have a material adverse effect on us and our success is dependent on the success of our customers. Our two largest customers, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates and J. C. Penney Company, Inc., accounted for over 40% of our consolidated net sales in fiscal 2005. In the event that either of these customers reduces or discontinues its product purchases from us, it would adversely affect our operations. Additionally, in recent years, several major department stores have experienced consolidation and ownership changes. In the future, retailers may undergo changes that could decrease the number of stores that carry our products, which could adversely affect our results. Our success is also impacted by the financial results and success of our customers. If any of our major customers, or a substantial portion of our customers generally, experiences a significant downturn in its business, fails to remain committed to our products or brands or realigns its affiliations with its suppliers, then these customers may reduce or discontinue purchases from us which could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are also subject to the buying plans of our customers and if our customers do not inform us of changes in their buying plans until it is too late for us to make necessary adjustments to our product lines, we may be adversely affected. We do not have long-term contracts with our customers and sales normally occur on an order-by-order basis. As a result, customers can generally terminate their relationship with us at any time. The footwear industry is highly competitive The footwear business is a highly competitive business and if we fail to compete effectively, we may lose market position. We operate in a relatively small segment of the overall footwear industry, supplying comfort footwear for use at- and around-the-home. We believe that we are the world’s largest marketer of comfort footwear for use at- and around-the-home. However, this is a very small component of the overall footwear industry. In recent years, companies that are engaged in other areas of the footwear industry and apparel companies have begun to provide at- and around-the-home comfort footwear, and many of these competitors have substantially greater financial, distribution and marketing resources than we do. The primary methods of competition in our industry include product design, product performance, quality, brand image, price, marketing and promotion and our ability to meet delivery commitments to retailers obtaining access to retail outlets. A major marketing or promotional success or a technical innovation by one of our competitors could adversely impact our competitive position. Our business is subject to consumer preferences, and unanticipated shifts in tastes or styles could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. The comfort footwear industry is subject to rapid changes in consumer preferences. Our performance may be hurt by our competitors’ product development, sourcing, pricing and innovation as well as general changes in consumer taste and preferences. The footwear industry is generally also subject to sudden shifts in consumer spending, and a reduction in such spending could adversely affect our results of operations. Consumer spending may be influenced by the amount of the consumer’s disposable income, which may fluctuate based on a number of factors, including general economic conditions, consumer confidence and business conditions. Further, consumer acceptance of new products may fall below expectations and may result in excess inventories or the delay of the launch of new product lines. If we inaccurately forecast consumer demand, we may experience difficulties in handling consumer orders or liquidating excess inventories and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our industry has relatively long lead times for the design and manufacture of products. Consequently, we must commit to production in advance of orders based on our forecast of consumer demands. If we fail to forecast consumer demand accurately, we may under- or over-source a product and encounter difficulty in handling customer orders or liquidating excess inventory and we may have to 10 Table of Contents sell excess inventory at a reduced cost. Further, due to the fashion oriented nature of our business, rapid changes in consumer preferences lead to an increased risk of inventory obsolescence. Write-downs of excess inventories have materially impaired our financial position in the past. While we believe we have successfully managed this risk in recent years and believe we can successfully manage it in the future, our operating results will suffer if we are unable to do so. We rely on distribution centers to store and distribute our product and if there is a natural disaster or other serious disruption in any of these facilities or methods of transport, we may be unable to affectively deliver product to our customers. We rely on distribution centers in San Angelo, Texas and in Thiviers, France, as well as third-party logistics providers located on the United States West Coast, to store our products prior to distribution to our customers. A natural disaster or other serious disruption at these facilities due to fire, earthquake, flood, terrorist attack, or any other cause could damage a portion of our inventory or impair our ability to timely deliver our product to our customers and could negatively impact our operating results. Although we have insured our warehoused inventory at its wholesale value, our insurance does not protect against losses due to transport difficulties, cancelled orders or damaged customer relationships that could result from a major disruption at these facilities. Further, we are dependent on methods of transport to move our products to and from these facilities. Circumstances may arise where we are unable to find available or reasonably priced shipping to the United States or Europe from our manufacturers in China or road and rail transport within the United States, Europe and Canada to our customers. If methods of transport are disrupted or if costs increase sharply or suddenly, we may not be able to affordably or timely deliver our products to our customers and our results of operations may be adversely affected. Fluctuations in the price, availability, and quality of raw materials could cause delay and increase costs. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of the raw materials used in the manufacture of our products could have a material adverse affect on the cost of our sales or our ability to meet customer demands. Price and availability of raw materials may fluctuate significantly depending on many factors, including crop yields and weather patterns and currency value fluctuations. If our suppliers are unable to obtain raw materials or if they are available only at inflated rates, our suppliers may not be able to deliver our products in sufficient quantities or at expected cost, which could adversely affect our operations. The seasonal nature of our business makes management more difficult, and severely reduces cash flow and liquidity during certain parts of the year. Our business is highly seasonal and much of the results of our operations are dependent on strong performance during the last six months of the year, particularly the holiday selling season. The majority of our marketing and sales activities take place at showings in the spring and fall. Our inventory is largest in the early fall to support our customers’ requirements for the fall and holiday selling seasons. Historically, our cash flow is strongest in the third and fourth fiscal quarters. Unfavorable economic conditions affecting retailers during the fall and through the holidays in any year could have a material adverse affect on the results of our operations for the year. We can offer no assurance that the seasonal nature of our business will diminish in the future. We must satisfy minimum covenants regarding our financial condition in order to be able to borrow under our credit facility. Our current credit facility contains certain minimum covenants regarding our financial condition and financial performance. While we believe that we can continue to comply with these covenants during fiscal 2006, our ability to do so assumes that the cost benefits of our current business model continue, we 11 Table of Contents experience no major loss of customers or loss of business from existing customers, and that we are able to source produce without incurring substantial unplanned costs. In the event that we are unable to do any of these things, we may no longer be able to comply with the financial covenants of our credit facility and our ability to borrow under the facility could be restricted, adversely affecting our operations. We depend on retaining qualified personnel whose loss would adversely impact our business. Our success is largely dependent on the efforts of certain key executives. We have hired Greg Tunney as President and Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Tunney will also assume the responsibilities of the Chief Executive Officer upon the departure of our current Chief Executive Officer, Thomas Von Lehman, who will be leaving us sometime before August 7, 2006. Our ability to successfully manage the succession of our senior management may affect our business and operations. Although we have entered into employment agreements with our executive officers, they have specific skills that are in demand and the loss of their services would adversely affect our operations. If our dispute with the IRS is resolved unfavorably to us, we may incur a substantial liability. We are currently disputing proposed adjustments by the IRS which, if sustained, would result in us owing an additional tax obligation of approximately $4 million for tax years 1998 through 2002. Substantially all of the proposed adjustments relate to the timing of certain deductions taken during the period. Although we believe that the resolution of this dispute will not have a material effect on the Company, there is a possibility that we could incur a substantial liability. We are vigorously contesting the proposed adjustments. If we are unable to successfully finalize the exiting of an ongoing lease obligation in Mexico, we may incur unplanned costs or difficulties. We previously operated a distribution facility in Mexico. In the third quarter of fiscal 2004, this operation was shut down. However we continue to have a lease obligation for this former distribution facility. In the fall of 2005, in order to prompt the landlord to engage in serious negotiations to terminate the lease, we chose to delay making payments required under the lease and the guarantee agreement, giving rise to an event of default. On November 10, 2005, the landlord under the lease sued us in United States District Court in Texas alleging breach of the guarantee agreement. The relief sought by the landlord is the acceleration of all of the rent payable over the remaining term of the lease, which is approximately $5.8 million. We have cured all defaults under the lease and are current on all required payments under the terms of the lease. Although we do not dispute the fact that a breach of the guarantee agreement occurred, we intend to vigorously dispute the remedy sought and the amount of damages claimed in the suit. If we are unable to resolve this litigation and exit this lease obligation without incurring unforeseen costs or difficulties, our operating results may be adversely impacted. Future sales of our common shares or other securities may dilute the value of our common shares. In many situations, our Board of Directors has the authority, without any vote of our shareholders, to issue additional common shares, including common shares authorized for issuance under our 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan. In the future, we may issue additional securities, through public or private offerings, in order to raise additional capital. Any such issuance would dilute the percentage of ownership interest of existing shareholders and may dilute the per share book value of the common shares. 12 Table of Contents Management’s accounting policies and methods are the basis of how we report our financial condition and results of operations, and these policies and methods may require management to make estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Management’s accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods in order to ensure that they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect management’s judgment as to the most appropriate manner in which to record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which might be reasonable under the circumstances yet might result in reporting materially different amounts than would have been reported under a different alternative. Management has identified several accounting policies as being “critical” to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations because they require management to make particularly subjective and/or complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because of the likelihood that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. Because of the inherent uncertainty of estimates about these matters, no assurance can be given that the application of alternative policies or methods might not result in our reporting materially different amounts. We may be a defendant in a variety of litigation and other actions, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. We may be involved from time to time in a variety of litigation arising out of our business. Our insurance may not cover all claims that may be asserted against us, and any claims asserted against us, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm our reputation. Should the ultimate judgments or settlements in any litigation exceed our insurance coverage, they could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. In addition, we may not be able to obtain appropriate types or levels of insurance in the future, nor may we be able to obtain adequate replacement policies with acceptable terms, if at all. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or customer information, whether through a breach of our computer systems or otherwise, could severely harm our business. As part of our business, we collect, process and retain sensitive and confidential client and customer information. Despite the security measures we have in place, our facilities and systems, and those of our third-party service providers, may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors, or other similar events. If information security is breached, information can be lost or misappropriated, resulting in financial loss or costs to us or damages to others. Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential customer information, whether by us or by our vendors, could severely damage our reputation, expose us to the risks of litigation and liability, disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business. 13 Table of Contents Our organizational documents may have the effect of discouraging a third party from acquiring us by means of a tender offer, proxy contest or otherwise. Our articles of incorporation and code of regulations contain provisions that make it more difficult for a third party to gain control or acquire us without the consent of our Board of Directors. These provisions also could discourage proxy contests and may make it more difficult for dissident shareholders to elect representatives as directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions of our governing documents may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might be in the best interest of our shareholders. Terrorism, acts of war or international conflicts could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Acts or threats of war or terrorism, international conflicts, including ongoing military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, and the actions taken by the United States and other governments in response to such events could negatively impact general business and economic conditions in the United States. If terrorist activity, acts of war or other international hostilities cause an overall economic decline, our financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. The potential for future terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to terrorist attacks or perceived threats to national security and other actual or potential conflicts or acts of war, including conflict in the Middle East, have created many economic and political uncertainties that could seriously harm our business and results of operations in ways that cannot presently be predicted. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. No response required. 