Item 1A. Risk Factors” of Part I of this 2012 Form 10-K occur, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. You should also know that it is impossible to predict or identify all risks and uncertainties related to our business. Consequently, no one should consider any such list to be a complete set of all potential risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect circumstances or events that occur after the date on which the statement is made to reflect unanticipated events. Any further disclosures in our filings with the SEC should also be considered. DEFINITIONS All references in this 2012 Form 10-K to “we”, “us”, “our”, and the “Company” refer to R.G. Barry Corporation, an Ohio corporation (the registrant) or, where appropriate, to R.G. Barry Corporation and its subsidiaries. The Company’s annual reporting period is either a fifty-two or fifty-three-week period (“fiscal year”) ending annually on the Saturday nearest June 30. For definitional purposes, as used herein, the terms listed below include the respective periods noted: Fiscal 2013 52 weeks ending June 29, 2013 Fiscal 2012 52 weeks ended June 30, 2012 Fiscal 2011 52 weeks ended July 2, 2011 Fiscal 2010 53 weeks ended July 3, 2010 3 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business BUSINESS AND PRODUCTS Overview R.G. Barry Corporation develops brands and markets products in three areas of the retail accessories category. These products include: footwear, such as slippers and sandals; foot and shoe care products, such as cushioned insoles; and handbags, tote bags and travel products. Our products are primarily sold in North America by a broad cross-section of retailers of varying size and classification. Since its founding more than 65 years ago, the Company’s main product has been accessories-type footwear. As part of our current strategic growth plan, we acquired the principal assets of two businesses during fiscal 2011 that transformed our business profile from solely an accessories footwear provider into the marketer of a range of accessories products. Foot Petals, Inc. (“Foot Petals”) is a leading developer and marketer of premium insoles and comfort solutions for footwear problems; and Baggallini, Inc. (“Baggallini”) is a developer and marketer of handbags, tote bags and travel products. We use a flexible sourcing model for our business. Many of the costs and expenses related to product procurement and distribution can expand and contract with our needs. Our products are all produced by contract manufacturers, primarily located in the People’s Republic of China (“China”) with the exception of certain foot and shoe care products, for which we also utilize a domestic-based supplier. Most of our products are warehoused and shipped by third-party logistics providers located in the United States. We are an Ohio corporation with executive offices are located in a Company-owned facility at 13405 Yarmouth Road N.W., Pickerington, Ohio 43147. Our telephone number is 614.864.6400, and our corporate Internet website can be accessed at www.rgbarry.com (this uniform resource locator, or URL, is an inactive textual reference only and is not intended to incorporate our website into this 2012 Form 10-K). We have been a public company since 1962. Our common shares are traded on The NASDAQ Global Market (“NASDAQ-GM”) under the trading symbol DFZ, which is meant to evoke the name of our flagship slipper brand, Dearfoams*. Reporting Segments Our business is divided into two reportable segments: the Footwear segment, which includes slippers and sandals; and the Accessories segment, which includes foot and shoe care products, handbags, tote bags and travel products. Approximately 79% of our consolidated net sales in fiscal 2012 came from the Footwear segment with the remainder of our net sales generated through the Accessories segment. Our two reporting segments – Footwear and Accessories – currently are comprised of three individual business units (“BU”): 1) footwear; 2) foot and shoe care products; and 3) handbags, tote bags and travel products. These BUs are organized around specific accessories product categories and trademarked brand names that we own. We think our trademarks have significant commercial value. In general, trademarks remain valid and enforceable as long as they are used in connection with our products and services and the required registration renewals are filed. We intend to continue the use of each of our trademarks and to renew each registered trademark accordingly. We established our reporting segments using generally accepted aggregation criteria under which we analyzed each business unit’s products, brand names, distribution channels, customer bases, sourcing and production methods and anticipated performance. Our Foot Petals and Baggallini business units share similar qualitative and quantitative characteristics that lend themselves to aggregation and that differentiate them from our footwear business. We believe that utilizing these two reporting segments allows us to fairly represent our business and its financial results. 4 Table of Contents See additional information on results as well as total assets for each of our reporting segments in “Note (16)—Segment Reporting” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” in this 2012 Form 10-K. Each of our business units is managed by a Business Unit President, who reports to the Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer. A team of design, marketing, sales, merchandising and finance professionals supports each BU. In-house corporate administrative, finance, human resources, information technology, logistics and creative services (“shared services”) are used in varying degrees by all of our business units. We maintain sales offices and showrooms at 9 East 37th Street in New York City, New York, which are shared by all BUs. While many selling, general and administrative expenses (“SGA”) are direct to each business unit, certain corporate support expenses are incurred and assigned to the respective business units based on estimated usage of Company services. Operating profit as measured for each segment includes sales, cost of sales, direct and allocated SGA expenses. This segment measure of operating profit or loss, as defined, is the primary indicator of internal financial performance used by management. Other corporate expenses incurred are deemed to be applicable to the Company as a whole and are not allocated to any specific business segment. These unallocated expenses primarily represent areas such as the Company’s corporate and governance functions, including the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Board of Directors, as well as expense areas including incentive bonus, incentive stock compensation, pension, professional fees and similar corporate expenses. Footwear Our Footwear segment is a component of the overall accessories category and a subset of the highly competitive footwear industry. According to independent industry research, annual retail sales of accessories footwear total slightly under $1 billion. The category includes slippers, sandals, hybrid and active fashion footwear and slipper socks. We believe that we are one of the world’s largest marketers of accessories footwear products, and as such, estimate that we sell about 30% of the slippers purchased in the United States annually. We have sold more than 1 billion pairs of accessory footwear under a variety of brand names since our founding in 1947. Today, Dearfoams* is our principal footwear brand. Since its introduction in 1958, Dearfoams* has, according to our proprietary consumer research, become one of the most-recognized brand names in accessories footwear. In addition to Dearfoams*, our current footwear brand names include Angel Treads*, DF by Dearfoams*, DF Sport by Dearfoams*, Utopia by Dearfoams* and Terrasoles*. We exited the Levi’s** brand slippers and sandals business, operated under license granted by Levi Strauss & Co., at the end of fiscal 2012. This was the final step in a strategy to exit all licensed footwear businesses in our portfolio. The decision had no material impact on fiscal 2012 results. In recent years, several companies that are engaged in marketing apparel and footwear have begun selling accessories footwear. Many of these competitors have significantly greater financial, distribution and marketing resources than we do. We do not, however, believe that they have committed the necessary resources to effectively compete long-term within the category. In addition, some retailers have from time to time sought to source their own accessories footwear products directly from overseas manufacturers. * Denotes Company trademark registered in the United States Department of Commerce Patent and Trademark Office ** Denotes a licensor trademark registered in the United States Department of Commerce Patent and Trademark Office 5 Table of Contents Most competitors in this segment are either privately-owned sourcing companies, producing products under various licensed brand names, or retailers sourcing their own private or proprietary label goods. We compete in this segment primarily on the basis of the quality, innovation and comfort of our products; price; value; service to our customers; marketing and merchandising expertise; and reputation within the trade. Our long experience in accessories footwear and the advantages of scale gained as a category leader give us tremendous advantages over many competitors. We believe that we are the only accessories footwear resource capable of providing the high level of comprehensive service, quality and support that we offer retailers, and we expect to continue growing our branded business in this segment based upon these strengths. We debut new footwear collections each spring and fall in conjunction with national retail accessory buying markets and other national trade events. We plan to continue the introduction of updated and new products in response to fashion changes, consumer taste preferences and changes in the demographic makeup of our business. Several basic footwear profiles are standard in all of our footwear brand lines. Many of these classic footwear silhouettes are in demand throughout the year. The most significant changes to these traditional products are made in response to broadly-accepted fashion trends and can include slight variations in design elements, internal construction, ornamentation, fabric and color. We license certain footwear brand names we own to Olivet International, Inc. (“Olivet”). The five-year exclusive agreement entered in July 2010 gives Olivet sole right to develop and market a variety of sleepwear, active wear and accessories products bearing the Dearfoams*, DF by Dearfoams*, DF Sport by Dearfoams* and Utopia by Dearfoams* trademarks in North and South American markets. We receive quarterly royalty payments under this agreement. Although international sales of our footwear, primarily in Canada and Mexico, represented only 3% of our total footwear business during fiscal 2012, we do view international markets as a potential driver of future growth. As a result, we began a formalized effort during fiscal 2012 to develop and grow a stable of international distributors for each of our business units. Our footwear products are sold through multiple retail channels including mass merchandisers, national chain stores, warehouse clubs, mid-tier department stores, specialty and independent stores, discount stores and e-commerce and catalog retailers. Suggested retail prices for our footwear products range from approximately $7-to-$50 per pair, depending upon the style, retail channel and retailer mark-up. Most buyers and consumers of our footwear are adult females. We do not finance customers’ purchases beyond granting traditional payment terms at the time shipments to the retailers are made. We do grant limited return privileges and allowances to fund advertising and in-season promotional activities to certain footwear customers. Our direct-to-consumer footwear sales are nominal and limited to those conducted through www.dearfoams.com (this uniform resource locator, or URL, is an inactive textual reference only and is not intended to incorporate our Dearfoams e-commerce website into this 2012 Form 10-K). Our footwear business is comprised of two components, replenishment and seasonal. In the replenishment component, retailers carry a relatively consistent, planned assortment of products on a year-round basis. These products are purchased by consumers on a repeat basis and the in-store assortment is regularly replenished by us to ensure product availability for shoppers. The seasonal component is comprised of a variety of more fashion-forward and boxed items that generally are found in stores only during the key retail selling periods, such as the period around the Christmas holiday selling season. Approximately 73% of our annual net sales in the footwear BU have historically occurred from July through December. We have identified the popularity of slippers as a holiday gift item as the main reason for this heavy seasonal weighting. 6 Table of Contents During fiscal 2012, we continued to invest in an on-going advertising/marketing initiative that is focused on increasing our dominance in accessories footwear and expanding the relevance of Dearfoams* to a broader consumer demographic. We also continued to use seasonal in-store merchandisers during the critical holiday period as a tool for managing the flow of our footwear to the retail selling floor. We believe that when combined with modern automatic demand-pull replenishment systems and various other merchandising and sales techniques, the use of temporary in-store merchandisers helps us optimize critical holiday sell-through of our footwear products. Due to the seasonal nature of our Footwear segment, the backlogs of unfilled footwear orders as of fiscal August month-end periods that ended on September 1, 2012, September 3, 2011 and September 4, 2010 were $32.5 million, $34.3 million and $30.3 million, respectively. The backlogs of unfilled sales orders at the end of fiscal 2012, fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010 were approximately $31.8 million, $31.3 million and $33.4 million, respectively; comparisons between years reflect differences in the timing of order receipts only and do not necessarily indicate a growth or decline in sales volume. We operate a footwear sourcing office in Dongguan City, China, to facilitate the development and procurement of our products and help ensure their quality and timely delivery. Approximately 33 people work out of the Dongguan City office. We purchase our footwear products from approximately 18 different third-party manufacturers, most of whom are located in China. Our overall experience with third-party footwear manufacturers has been very good in terms of reliability, delivery times and product quality. All of our third-party purchases are conducted on an open account basis and in U.S. Dollars. We are dependent on methods of third-party transport to move our products from our third-party manufacturers to distribution facilities we utilize, and from those facilities to our customers. In our Footwear segment, we warehouse and distribute all goods from a third-party logistics facility in Fontana, California. In May 2012, we exited a leased distribution center we operated for many years in San Angelo, Texas. In addition to the cost savings that resulted from moving to our current third-party logistics provider, the elimination of the Texas legacy facility cut approximately two weeks off of the product distribution cycle for goods previously handled through the San Angelo facility. The closing had no material impact on fiscal 2012 financial results. Accessories Products The Foot Petals and Baggallini BUs collectively comprise our Accessories segment. Independent industry research indicates that the product classifications where these BUs compete—foot and shoe care, and handbags, tote bags and travel products—represent approximately 4% and 30%, respectively, of total annual accessories sales at retail. We believe that these subcategories present us with opportunities for faster and more profitable growth than the opportunities presented by the Footwear segment. Foot Petals Foot Petals sells approximately 30 foot and shoe care products priced between $7 and $45, which primarily are targeted toward the foot comfort of women between the ages of 14 and 55. Many Foot Petals products are made from high-performance urethane or similar man-made materials and various fabrics. The products generally are sold at premium, non-promotional prices and yield higher margins than those earned in our Footwear segment. Foot Petals products are sold under a variety of brand names including Foot Petals*, Fab Feet*, Glamour Toez*, Heavenly Heelz* and Killer Kushionz*. Sales to the trade are handled by a combination of Company-employed and independent sales representatives. Products also are presented to retailers at various national markets and accessories trade shows. Foot Petals’ market share of the total retail comfort insert business is very nominal and Foot Petals emphasizes function coupled with fashion at a reasonable 7 Table of Contents price, whereas many of our competitors emphasize only function. We do not finance retailers’ purchases beyond granting traditional payment terms at the time shipments to the retailers are made. Foot Petals’ products principally are sold to consumers through mass-merchants, upper-tier department stores, independent retailers, internet and home shopping venues. We also sell direct-to-consumer via www.footpetals.com (this uniform resource locator, or URL, is an inactive textual reference only and is not intended to incorporate our Foot Petals e-commerce website into this 2012 Form 10-K). Due in part to its non-seasonal nature, the business has minimal exposure to obsolete inventory and net sales are relatively evenly distributed across the fiscal year. The replenishment nature of the Foot Petals’ business model contributes to making it a fast-turning, low inventory volume business. In conjunction with our efforts to develop international business for all of our business units, we signed several third-party distribution agreements for Foot Petals during the second half of fiscal 2012. The impact on the Company’s net earnings from these distribution agreements will not be material in fiscal 2013. Foot Petals brand cushions are considered premium products within their category and carry the Seal of Acceptance of the American Podiatric Medical Association. Among Foot Petals major competitors are Dr. Scholl’s®, Implus® Footcare and Profoot®. Foot Petals’ products primarily are manufactured by a third-party supplier based in Ohio, and warehoused and distributed through a third-party logistics provider located adjacent to the supplier’s manufacturing plant. We rely on third-party transport to move Foot Petals products to our customers. In addition to showroom and office space in our New York City location, Foot Petals operates a sales office in Glen Rock, New Jersey. Baggallini Baggallini products consist of various styles of handbags, tote bags and travel accessories priced between $40 and $180, and are primarily targeted toward women between the ages of 34 to 55. Its products are principally made from durable nylons, leathers and other man-made materials and are sold at premium, non-promotional prices. We invested significantly in restaging the Baggallini brand during fiscal 2012. In February 2012, we introduced an updated Baggallini line that included a second tier of higher-priced, more colorful and highly-styled products. Baggallini products traditionally are recognized for their lightweight construction and intelligent, solution-oriented organization. The Baggallini BU generates higher margins than those earned in our Footwear segment. Baggallini’s principal trademarks include baggallini* and Le Bagg*. Sales are handled by a combination of Company-employed and independent sales representatives. Products also are presented to retailers at various gift and trade shows, conducted throughout the country at various times of the year. Baggallini’s market share of the total retail handbag business is very nominal and Baggallini emphasizes function coupled with fashion at a reasonable price whereas many of our competitors primarily emphasize fashion. We do not finance retailers’ purchases beyond granting traditional payment terms at the time shipments to the retailers are made. Baggallini’s products primarily are sold to consumers through a network of several thousand independent retail locations, non-promotional department and chain stores and on-line retailers. We also sell direct-to-consumer via www.baggallini.com (this uniform resource locator, or URL, is an inactive textual reference only and is not intended to incorporate our Baggallini e-commerce website into this 2012 Form 10-K). 8 Table of Contents Branded competitors include Kipling® and LeSportsac®. The business is relatively non-seasonal and evenly distributed across the fiscal year. Baggallini has a nominal international business, primarily in Canada. We expect to expand Baggallini’s international footprint, beginning in fiscal 2013, as part of our Company-wide international growth strategy. All Baggallini products are developed and sourced through a network of contract manufacturers in China. This business unit utilizes a sourcing agent who is not affiliated with our China-based footwear sourcing operations. All of Baggallini’s third-party purchases are conducted on an open account basis and in U.S. Dollars. We are dependent on methods of third-party transport to move Baggallini products from contract manufacturers to our leased, Company-operated distribution facility in Oregon, and from our Oregon distribution center to retailers. Although some of the BU products contain elements of fashion, they focus more on function, thus lessening our exposure to obsolete inventory resulting from changing fashion trends. The BU traditionally has operated with an inventory level that ensures quick customer order fulfillment and replenishment. In addition to office and showroom space in our New York City location, Baggallini operates a leased administrative office, showroom and distribution center in suburban Portland (Milwaukie), Oregon. BUSINESS ETHICS & SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY We strive to incorporate our core values of integrity, quality, innovation, leadership, teamwork and community into our business in a manner that leads to the long-term success of the Company, our shareholders and our team members. We strive to achieve the highest business and personal ethical standards, as well as compliance with all applicable governmental laws, rules and regulations. We believe that it is the responsibility of a good corporate citizen to embrace social, environmental and governance factors as part of its overall business strategy. Equal Employment Opportunities We offer the opportunity of equal employment to all individuals without regard to disability, race, color, religion, sex, national origin or age, and expect the same of all suppliers to our enterprise. Fair Labor Practices Our Code of Ethical Business Conduct details our intolerance of the use of forced labor — slavery, indentured, bonded, child or prison labor and human trafficking — by anyone with whom we do business. We require our suppliers to provide workers with a clean, safe, and healthful work environment. Factories producing our merchandise must provide adequate medical facilities and ensure that all production and manufacturing processes are carried out in conditions that have proper considerations for the health and safety of the workers involved. Suppliers also must respect the rights of employees to associate with any group, so long as such groups are legal within their own country. All of our suppliers and their contractors are randomly audited by independent third parties, both announced and unannounced, to help ensure adherence to our expectations related to forced labor and overall working conditions. We require that all vendors doing business with us to fairly compensate their employees by: providing wages and benefits that meet or exceed applicable local and national laws; scheduling reasonable work hours; and providing reasonable days off, vacation and leave privileges. Each supplier also must display a signed Terms of Engagement document detailing this information in a location visible to all employees working at their facilities. 9 Table of Contents The Company is C-TPAT (Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism) certified, which means we comply with the U.S. Government’s standards to ensure that our shipments out of other countries are safe from tampering during the exporting process. A part of this certification process also includes periodic inspections of our foreign manufacturers’ factories to ensure safe, fair working conditions for employees. Corporate Sustainability The Company works to promote sustainable, environmentally healthy business practices by identifying and sharing practical, innovative conservation methods; adopting appropriate environmental policies; and encouraging all of our team members, vendors and customers to incorporate green wherever possible. We have adopted recommendations from the ENERGY STAR program of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and the U.S. Department of Energy at our facilities and encourage and expect our suppliers to: reduce excess packaging and use recycled, nontoxic materials; follow guidelines that will prevent the future depletion of natural resources; and ensure the use of safe materials in manufacturing. We anticipate no material capital expenditures for environmental controls facilities for the foreseeable future. PRODUCT DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT Design and product development activities for all of our business units during fiscal 2012 were conducted in the United States of America and China. The principal raw materials used in our footwear, foot care and handbag, tote bag and travel products are textile fabrics, threads, foams, nylons, other synthetic products, recycled micro fleece, mesh and high performance urethane. Raw materials also include organics such as leather, suede and cotton fibers; and various packaging materials. All of our raw materials are available from a wide range of suppliers. We have not experienced any significant difficulty in obtaining raw materials. During fiscal 2012, fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010, we spent approximately $1.7 million, $1.9 million and $2.3 million, respectively, to support the design and development of new products and make improvements in existing products. These design and development activities were primarily supported by 10 full-time team members. SIGNIFICANT CUSTOMERS As our business base has grown in recent years, the percentage of net sales from our largest customers has declined relative to our consolidated net sales. Walmart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates accounted for 29%, 32% and 35% of our consolidated net sales during fiscal 2012, fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010, respectively. Our sales to Walmart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates are primarily in our Footwear segment and are less seasonal in nature than sales to many of our other footwear customers. J.C. Penney Company, Inc. accounted for 10% of our consolidated net sales during fiscal 2010. FACILITIES Our principal administrative, sales and distribution facilities are described above and more fully below under “