ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Based on current and known information, Winland believes that the following identifies the most significant risk factors that could affect its business. However, the risks and uncertainties Winland faces are not limited to those discussed below. There could be other unknown or unpredictable economic, business, competitive or regulatory factors, including factors that Winland currently believes to be immaterial, that could have material adverse effects on Winland’s financial position, liquidity, and results of operations. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. You should consider the following risk factors, in addition to other information presented or incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K in evaluating our business and your investment in us. Winland is dependent on a small number of customers. Winland’s Electronic Manufacturing Services (EMS) product sales are dependent on a small number of original equipment manufacturer (OEM) customers with the top two customers together representing 44% of total Company sales. Accordingly, Winland is dependent on the continued growth, viability and financial stability of its largest customers, which consist of original equipment manufacturers of fleet management global positioning systems (GPS) and test and precise measurement equipment. Winland generally does not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from its customers, and has often experienced reduced lead times in customer orders. Customers may cancel their orders, change production quantities, and delay production for a number of reasons. Uncertain economic conditions have resulted, and may continue to result, in some of Winland’s customers delaying the delivery of some of the products manufactured for them and placing purchase orders for lower volumes of products than previously anticipated. Cancellations, reductions, or delays by a significant customer or by a group of customers have harmed, and may continue to harm, Winland’s results of operations by reducing the volumes of products manufactured, as well as by causing a delay in the recovery of its expenditures for inventory in preparation for customer orders and lower asset utilization resulting in lower gross margins. Table of Contents Page 5 Winland is subject to intense competition in the EMS industry. Winland competes against many providers of electronics manufacturing services. Certain competitors have substantially greater resources and geographically diversified United States and international operations. Winland may also be at a competitive disadvantage with respect to price when compared to manufacturers with lower cost structures and enhanced volume supplier purchasing capability. Accordingly, to compete effectively, Winland must continue to provide technologically advanced manufacturing services, maintain strict quality standards, respond flexibly and rapidly to customers’ design and schedule changes and deliver products on a reliable basis at competitive prices. Customers may cancel their orders, change production quantities or delay production. Start-up costs and inefficiencies related to new or transferred programs can adversely affect operating results and such costs may not be recoverable if such new programs or transferred programs are cancelled. Winland’s operating results may vary significantly from period to period. Winland experiences fluctuations in its operating results. Some of the principal factors that contribute to these fluctuations are: Winland’s effectiveness in managing manufacturing processes, costs and availability of components so that components are available when needed for production, while mitigating risks of purchasing inventory in excess of immediate production needs; the degree to which Winland is able to utilize its available manufacturing capacity; changes in the cost and availability of components, which often occur in the electronics manufacturing industry and which affect Winland and its ability to meet delivery schedules; and changes in demand for Winland’s products. Results of operations in any period, therefore, should not be considered indicative of the results to be expected for any future period. Winland’s operating results, financial condition and cash flows may be adversely impacted by the affect the current global economic crisis has on its customers. The current economic crisis has severely impacted banks and other lenders, limiting the ability of many businesses to the access of credit markets. Winland’s customers may choose to delay or postpone purchases of products from Winland until the economy and their businesses strengthen and this may affect its operating results, financial condition and delay and lengthen sales cycles. Winland cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of the recession. A prolonged recession or further decline in the global economy could have a material adverse affect on Winland’s results of operations and financial condition. The current capital and credit market conditions may adversely affect our access to capital, cost of capital and business operations. The general economic and capital market conditions in the United States have deteriorated significantly and have adversely affected businesses access to capital as well as an increased cost of such capital. If the current economic conditions in the United States continue or become worse, Winland’s cost of debt and equity capital and the access to capital markets could be adversely affected. Although Winland currently has access to $3,214,000, pursuant to its line of credit agreement with M&I Bank, this line of credit expires in June 2009. Although M&I has granted one year extensions on the line of credit on identical terms in the past, there can be no assurance that M&I will do so in the future, and if it does grant extensions, there can be no assurance that the terms of such extensions will not be on terms that are more burdensome and/or costly to Winland. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations. Winland requires effective internal control over financial reporting in order to provide reasonable assurance with respect to its financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurances with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Table of Contents Page 6 ITEM 