ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Based on current and known information, we believe that the following identifies the most significant risk factors that could affect our business. However, the risks and uncertainties we face are not limited to those discussed below. There could be other unknown or unpredictable economic, business, competitive or regulatory factors, including factors that we currently believe to be immaterial, that could in fact have material adverse effects on our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. You should consider the following risk factors, in addition to other information presented or incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K in evaluating our business and your investment in us. We are dependent on a small number of customers and such customer’s response to the current uncertain economic conditions. Our Proprietary Products sales are dependent on a small number of security products distributors with the top five distributors together representing over 65% of our total sales in both 2012 and 2011. We do not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from our customers. Customers may also cancel their orders, change quantities, or delay delivery for a number of reasons. Cancellations, reductions, or delays by a significant customer or by a group of customers may harm our results of operations by reducing the volumes of products sold. We outsource the manufacturing of our line of Proprietary Products. We have an agreement with an outside contract manufacturing firm to manufacture our proprietary products through December 31, 2013. Based on the agreement, we issue purchase orders with definitive quantities, delivery dates and price. We cannot guarantee the ability of the manufacturer to timely deliver against the purchase orders which may cause us to experience delays in meeting our customer’s delivery requirements. If experienced, these delays may impact sales volumes and increase costs. Our operating results may vary significantly from period to period. We experience fluctuations in our operating results. Some of the principal factors that contribute to these fluctuations are our effectiveness in managing inventory levels; changes in the cost and availability of finished goods purchased from our manufacturer; and changes in demand for our products. Results of operations in any period, therefore, should not be considered indicative of the results to be expected for any future period. Market acceptance of our new EA800-ip product and our pricing of such product is uncertain, and we may be unable to obtain market acceptance of our EA800-ip product at the price we hope for. The success of our EA800-ip product will depend upon the acceptance by customers of our EA800-ip product as equivalent as or better than the current product or solution they are currently using for security products. Our future success will depend on our receiving market acceptance of the EA800-ip product at a price that is acceptable to us. Market acceptance of our EA800-ip product will depend on a number of factors, including: ● the perceived effectiveness of our EA800-ip product relative to its cost; ● the potential advantages of our EA800-ip product over alternative products; ● the development of new products and technologies by our competitors or new alternative security products; and ● the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts. If our EA800-ip product does not achieve adequate acceptance by our customers and potential customers, we may not generate our projected revenue and our business would be materially impacted. Our strategic growth plan depends substantially on customers renewing, upgrading and expanding their subscriptions for our services. 4 Table of Contents Pursuant to our new strategic growth plan we intend to become a Software as a Service (“SaaS”) business model. As a result, our ability to grow is dependent in part on customers purchasing subscriptions and modules. We have limited historical data with respect to rates of customer subscription renewals, upgrades and expansions so we may not accurately predict future trends in customer renewals. Our customers’ renewal rates may decline or fluctuate because of several factors, including their satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our services, the prices of our services, the prices of services offered by our competitors or reductions in our customers’ spending levels due to the macroeconomic environment or other factors. If our customers do not purchase subscriptions for our services, renew on less favorable terms, or do not purchase additional functionality or subscriptions, our revenue may grow more slowly than expected or decline and our profitability and gross margin may be harmed. The market for SaaS business applications may develop more slowly than we expect. Our success will depend, to a large extent, on the willingness of businesses to accept cloud-based SaaS services for applications that they view as critical to the success of their business. Many companies have invested substantial effort and financial resources to integrate traditional enterprise software into their businesses and may be reluctant or unwilling to switch to a different application or to migrate these applications to cloud-based services. Other factors that may affect market acceptance of our application include: ● the security capabilities, reliability and availability of cloud-based services; ● customer concerns with entrusting a third party to store and manage their data, especially confidential or sensitive data; ● our ability to maintain high levels of customer satisfaction; ● our ability to implement upgrades and other changes to our software without disrupting our service; ● the level of customization or configuration we offer; and ● the price, performance and availability of competing products and services. Many of our customers are price sensitive, and if the prices we charge for our services are unacceptable to our customers, our operating results will be harmed. Many of our customers are price sensitive, and we have limited experience with respect to determining the appropriate prices for our services. As the market for our services matures, or as new competitors introduce new products or services that compete with ours, we may be unable to renew our agreements with existing customers or attract new customers at the same price or based on the same pricing model as previously used. As a result, it is possible that competitive dynamics in our market may require us to change our pricing model or reduce our prices, which could harm our revenue, gross margin and operating results. We rely on our management team and need additional personnel to grow our business, and the loss of one or more key employees or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could harm our business. Our success and future growth depends to a significant degree on the skills and continued services of our management team, especially David Gagne, our Chief Executive Officer, and Brian Lawrence, our Chief Financial Officer. Our future success also depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled technical, managerial, sales, marketing and service and support personnel, including members of our management team. Competition for sales, marketing and technology development personnel is particularly intense in the technology industries. As a result, we may be unable to successfully attract or retain qualified personnel. Our inability to attract and retain the necessary personnel could harm our business. If we fail to manage our SaaS hosting network infrastructure capacity, our existing customers may experience service outages and our new customers may experience delays in the deployment of our SaaS products. We seek to maintain sufficient excess capacity in our SaaS hosting network infrastructure to meet the needs of all of our customers. If we do not accurately predict our infrastructure capacity requirements, our customers could experience service outages that may result in customer losses. If our hosting infrastructure capacity fails to keep pace with increased sales, customers may experience delays as we seek to obtain additional capacity, which could harm our reputation and adversely affect our revenue growth. 5 Table of Contents If we fail to develop our brand cost-effectively, our business may suffer. We believe that developing and maintaining awareness of our brand in a cost-effective manner is critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our existing and future solutions and is an important element in attracting new customers. Furthermore, we believe that the importance of brand recognition will increase as competition in our market increases. Successful promotion of our brand will depend largely on the effectiveness of our marketing efforts and on our ability to provide reliable and useful services at competitive prices. Brand promotion activities may not yield increased revenue, and even if they do, any increased revenue may not offset the expenses we incurred in building our brand. If we fail to successfully promote and maintain our brand, or incur substantial expenses in an unsuccessful attempt to promote and maintain our brand, we may fail to attract enough new customers or retain our existing customers to the extent necessary to realize a sufficient return on our brand-building efforts, and our business could suffer. We may experience delays in product and service development, including delays beyond our control, which could prevent us from achieving our growth objectives and hurt our business. Many of the problems, delays and expenses we may encounter may be beyond our control. Such problems may include, but are not limited to, problems related to the technical development of our products and services, the competitive environment in which we operate, marketing problems, consumer and advertiser acceptance and costs and expenses that may exceed current estimates. Problems, delays or expenses in any of these areas could have a negative impact on our business, financial conditions or results of operations. Delays in the timely design, development, deployment and commercial operation of our EA800-ip product and service offerings, and consequently the achievement of our revenue targets and positive cash flow, could result from a variety of causes, including many causes that are beyond our control. We might require additional capital to support our strategic growth plan, and this capital might not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. We intend to continue to make investments to support our strategic growth plan and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges, including the need to develop new solutions or enhance our existing solutions, enhance our operating infrastructure and update our product. Accordingly, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing shareholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. Any debt financing secured by us in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities. In addition, we may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited, and our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects could be adversely affected. We may be unsuccessful against future competitors. If we do not compete effectively, our operating results and future growth could be harmed. We may encounter growing competition in our business from many sources. Many of our future competitors may have substantially greater financial, marketing, technological and other resources than we do. Some of these companies may even choose to offer services competitive with ours at no cost as a strategy to attract or retain customers of their other services. If we are unable to compete successfully with traditional and other emerging providers of competing services, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Demand for our services is sensitive to price. Many factors, including our advertising, customer acquisition and technology costs, and our current and future competitors’ pricing and marketing strategies, can significantly affect our pricing strategies. There can be no assurance that we will not be forced to engage in price-cutting initiatives, or to increase our advertising and other expenses to attract and retain customers in response to competitive pressures, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, operating results and resources. 6 Table of Contents In the event we are unable to retain existing proprietary product customers or to grow our SaaS customer base by adding new customers, our operating results will be adversely affected. Our strategic growth plan is in part driven by our ability to retain our existing customers and grow our customer base by adding new SaaS customers. Customers cancel their accounts for many reasons, including economic concerns, business failure or a perception that they do not use our product effectively and the perception that the service is not a good value. In some cases, we terminate an account because the customer fails to comply with our standard terms and conditions. As our customer base continues to grow, even if our customer retention rates remain the same on a percentage basis, the absolute number of customers we lose each month will increase. We must continually add new customers to replace customers whose accounts are cancelled or terminated, which may involve significantly higher marketing expenditures than we currently anticipate. If too many of our historical proprietary product customers cancel our service, or if we are unable to attract new SaaS customers in numbers sufficient to grow our business, our operating results would be adversely affected. Our business could be adversely affected if our clients are not satisfied with our SaaS solutions, our implementation and integration of our solutions or our professional services. The success of our strategic growth plan will depend on our ability to satisfy our clients and meet their business needs. If a client is unsatisfied, we could lose the client, we could incur additional costs to remedy the situation, or the profitability of our relationship with that client may be impaired. Negative publicity resulting from issues related to our client relationships, regardless of accuracy, may damage our business by adversely affecting our ability to attract new clients and maintain and expand our relationships with existing clients. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations. We require effective internal control over financial reporting in order to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurances with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. Our common stock was recently delisted from the NYSE Amex Exchange and investors may have difficulty trading and obtaining quotations for our common stock, which could impair their investments and our business. On April 11, 2012 we received a notice from NYSE Amex LLC indicating that we were not in compliance with the continued listing requirements due to: our having stockholders’ equity of less than $4,000,000 and losses from continuing operations and/or net losses in three of our four most recent fiscal years, as set forth in Section 1003(a)(ii) of the NYSE Amex Exchange’s Corporate Guide; and stockholders’ equity of less than $6,000,000 and losses from continuing operations and/or net losses in our five most recent fiscal years ended December 31, 2011, as set forth in Section 1003(a)(iii) of the NYSE Amex Exchange’s Company Guide. Despite our diligent efforts to meet the requirements of the NYSE Amex Exchange, On March 6, 2013 we were informed by the NYSE Amex Exchange that our common stock would be delisted. Our common stock was immediately eligible for quotation on the OTC Bulletin Board and began trading on the OTC Bulletin Board as of the open of business on March 21, 2013. The OTC Bulletin Board symbol of our common stock is WELX. Because our common stock was delisted from the NYSE Amex Exchange, the liquidity of our common stock will be impaired and access to the capital markets, if necessary, may not be possible. An investor may find it difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations of the price of, shares of our common stock. The lack of an established trading market severely limits the liquidity of our common stock, and could depress the market price of our common stock and limit our ability to raise additional capital. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 7 Table of Contents 