ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Based on current and known information, Winland believes that the following identifies the most significant risk factors that could affect its business. However, the risks and uncertainties Winland faces are not limited to those discussed below. There could be other unknown or unpredictable economic, business, competitive or regulatory factors, including factors that Winland currently believes to be immaterial, that could in fact have material adverse effects on Winland’s financial position, liquidity, and results of operations. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. You should consider the following risk factors, in addition to other information presented or incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K in evaluating Winland’s business and your investment in Winland. Winland is dependent on a small number of customers and such customer’s response to the current uncertain economic conditions. Winland’s Proprietary Products sales are dependent on a small number of security products distributors with the top five distributors together representing 67% of total Company sales in 2010 and 2009. Winland does not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from its customers. Customers may also cancel their orders, change quantities, or delay delivery for a number of reasons. Cancellations, reductions, or delays by a significant customer or by a group of customers may harm Winland’s results of operations by reducing the volumes of products sold. Winland outsources the manufacturing of its line of Proprietary Products. Winland has an agreement with an outside contract manufacturing firm to manufacture its proprietary products. Per the agreement, Winland issues purchase orders with definitive quantities, deliveries and price. Winland cannot guarantee the ability of the manufacturer to timely deliver against the purchase orders which may cause Winland to experience delays in meeting its customer’s delivery requirements. If experienced, these delays may impact sales volumes and increase costs. Winland’s operating results may vary significantly from period to period. Winland experiences fluctuations in its operating results. Some of the principal factors that contribute to these fluctuations are Winland’s effectiveness in managing inventory levels; changes in the cost and availability of finished goods purchased from its manufacturer; and changes in demand for Winland’s products including EMS inventory. Results of operations in any period, therefore, should not be considered indicative of the results to be expected for any future period. Winland’s operating results, financial condition and cash flows may be adversely impacted by the affect the current global economic uncertainty has on its customers. The current economic uncertainty has severely impacted banks and other lenders, limiting the ability of many businesses to the access of credit markets. Winland’s customers may choose to delay or postpone purchases of products from Winland until the economy and their businesses strengthen and this may affect its operating results, financial condition and delay and lengthen sales cycles. A continued uncertainty in the global economy could have a material adverse affect on Winland’s results of operations and financial condition. The current capital and credit market conditions may adversely affect Winland’s access to capital, cost of capital and business operations. The general economic and capital market conditions in the United States and the world have adversely affected businesses access to capital as well as an increased cost of such capital. If the current economic conditions in the United States and the world remain uncertain, Winland’s cost of debt and equity capital and the access to capital markets could be adversely affected. Winland currently has access to $2,500,000, pursuant to its Factoring, Security and Service Agreement (the “Agreement”) with TCI Business Capital (TCI). Although the Agreement doesn’t expire until December 31, 2012, TCI may terminate this Agreement for any reason whatsoever upon thirty (30) days prior written notice to Winland or immediately at any time, with or without notice if the Company is in default under any provision of this Agreement. If TCI elects to terminate the agreement, there can be no assurance that the terms of new agreements will not be on terms that are more burdensome and/or costly to Winland. Table of Contents Page 4 Winland is currently in default of financial covenants related to its mortgage note payable. At December 31, 2010, Winland was in default of certain financial covenants related to its mortgage note payable. As such, the bank has the right to demand payment on the long-term debt. If the Company is unable to cure the violation or negotiate additional changes, and the bank calls the debt, the Company's cash available for operations will be reduced. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations. Winland requires effective internal control over financial reporting in order to provide reasonable assurance with respect to its financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurances with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 