ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Based on current and known information, we believe that the following identifies the most significant risk factors that could affect our business. However, the risks and uncertainties we face are not limited to those discussed below. There could be other unknown or unpredictable economic, business, competitive or regulatory factors, including factors that we currently believe to be immaterial, that could in fact have material adverse effects on our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. 3 Table of Contents You should consider the following risk factors, in addition to other information presented or incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K in evaluating our business and your investment in us. We are dependent on a small number of customers and such customer’s response to the current uncertain economic conditions. Our Proprietary Products sales are dependent on a small number of security products distributors with the top five distributors together representing over 71% of our total sales in 2013 and over 65% of our total sales in 2012. We do not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from our customers. Customers may also cancel their orders, change quantities, or delay delivery for a number of reasons. Cancellations, reductions, or delays by a significant customer or by a group of customers may harm our results of operations by reducing the volumes of products sold. We outsource the manufacturing of our line of Proprietary Products. We contract with an outside contract manufacturing firm to manufacture our proprietary products. We issue purchase orders with definitive quantities, delivery dates and price. We cannot guarantee the ability of the manufacturer to timely deliver against the purchase orders which may cause us to experience delays in meeting our customer’s delivery requirements. If experienced, these delays may impact sales volumes and increase costs. Our operating results may vary significantly from period to period. We experience fluctuations in our operating results. Some of the principal factors that contribute to these fluctuations are our effectiveness in managing inventory levels; changes in the cost and availability of finished goods purchased from our manufacturer; and changes in demand for our products. Results of operations in any period, therefore, should not be considered indicative of the results to be expected for any future period. Many of our customers are price sensitive, and if the prices we charge for our services are unacceptable to our customers, our operating results will be harmed. Many of our customers are price sensitive, and we have limited experience with respect to determining the appropriate prices for our services. As the market for our services matures, or as new competitors introduce new products or services that compete with ours, we may be unable to renew our agreements with existing customers or attract new customers at the same price or based on the same pricing model as previously used. As a result, it is possible that competitive dynamics in our market may require us to change our pricing model or reduce our prices, which could harm our revenue, gross margin and operating results. We rely on key personnel to grow our business, and the loss of one or more key employees or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could harm our business. Our success and future growth depends to a significant degree on the skills and continued services of Brian Lawrence, our Chief Financial Officer. Our future success also depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate skilled technical, managerial, sales, marketing and support personnel, including members of our management team. Competition for sales, marketing and technical personnel is particularly intense in the technology industries. As a result, we may be unable to successfully attract or retain qualified personnel. Our inability to attract and retain the necessary personnel could harm our business. If we fail to develop our brand cost-effectively, our business may suffer. We believe that developing and maintaining awareness of our brand in a cost-effective manner is critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our existing and future products and is an important element in attracting new customers. Furthermore, we believe that the importance of brand recognition will increase as competition in our market increases. Successful promotion of our brand will depend largely on the effectiveness of our marketing efforts and on our ability to provide reliable and useful products at competitive prices. Brand promotion activities may not yield increased revenue, and even if they do, any increased revenue may not offset the expenses we incurred in building our brand. If we fail to successfully promote and maintain our brand, or incur substantial expenses in an unsuccessful attempt to promote and maintain our brand, we may fail to attract enough new customers or retain our existing customers to the extent necessary to realize a sufficient return on our brand-building efforts, and our business could suffer. 4 Table of Contents We may experience delays in product and service development, including delays beyond our control, which could prevent us from achieving our growth objectives and hurt our business. Many of the problems, delays and expenses we may encounter may be beyond our control. Such problems may include, but are not limited to, problems related to the technical development of our products and services, the competitive environment in which we operate, marketing problems, consumer and advertiser acceptance and costs and expenses that may exceed current estimates. Problems, delays or expenses in any of these areas could have a negative impact on our business, financial conditions or results of operations. We might require additional capital to support our strategic business plan, and this capital might not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. We intend to continue to make investments to support our strategic business plan and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges, including the need to develop new solutions or enhance our existing solutions, enhance our operating infrastructure and update our product. Accordingly, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing shareholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. Any debt financing secured by us in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities. In addition, we may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited, and our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects could be adversely affected. We may be unsuccessful against future competitors. If we do not compete effectively, our operating results and future growth could be harmed. We may encounter growing competition in our business from many sources. Many of our future competitors may have substantially greater financial, marketing, technological and other resources than we do. Some of these companies may even choose to offer services competitive with ours at no cost as a strategy to attract or retain customers of their other services. If we are unable to compete successfully with traditional and other emerging providers of competing services, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Demand for our services is sensitive to price. Many factors, including our advertising, customer acquisition and technology costs, and our current and future competitors’ pricing and marketing strategies, can significantly affect our pricing strategies. There can be no assurance that we will not be forced to engage in price-cutting initiatives, or to increase our advertising and other expenses to attract and retain customers in response to competitive pressures, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, operating results and resources. Our significant shareholders, two of which are directors, have substantial control over us and could limit shareholders’ ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including changes of control. As of February 17, 2014, five of our shareholders, including two who are directors, beneficially own 43.2% of our outstanding common stock. Together they may be able to effectively control or influence significantly all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other significant corporate transactions. These shareholders may have interests that differ from other shareholders, and they may vote in a way with which other shareholders disagree and that may be adverse to the interests of other shareholders. The concentration of ownership of our common stock may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our company, could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a control premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company, and may affect the liquidity and market price of our common stock. 5 Table of Contents Our business could be adversely affected if our clients are not satisfied with our implementation and integration of our solutions or our professional services. The success of our strategic business plan will depend on our ability to satisfy our clients and meet their business needs. If a client is unsatisfied, we could lose the client, we could incur additional costs to remedy the situation, or the profitability of our relationship with that client may be impaired. Negative publicity resulting from issues related to our client relationships, regardless of accuracy, may damage our business by adversely affecting our ability to attract new clients and maintain and expand our relationships with existing clients. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations. We require effective internal control over financial reporting in order to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurances with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. Our common stock was delisted from the NYSE Amex Exchange and investors may have difficulty trading and obtaining quotations for our common stock, which could impair their investments and our business. Despite our diligent efforts to meet the requirements of the NYSE Amex Exchange, on March 6, 2013 we were informed by the NYSE Amex Exchange that our common stock would be delisted. Our common stock was immediately eligible for quotation on the OTC Bulletin Board and began trading on the OTC Bulletin Board as of the open of business on March 21, 2013. The OTC Bulletin Board symbol of our common stock is WELX. Because our common stock is listed on the OTC Bulletin Board, the liquidity of our common stock may be impaired and access to the capital markets, if necessary, may not be possible. An investor may find it difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations of the price of, shares of our common stock. The lack of an established trading market severely limits the liquidity of our common stock, and could depress the market price of our common stock and limit our ability to raise additional capital. We intend to terminate our reporting obligations under the Securities Exchange Act and our stock price may decline. Because of our size and the number of holders of our common stock, we can suspend our reporting obligations under the Securities Exchange Act at any time by filing a Form 15 with the SEC. We intend to do so in the near future. Once we terminate our reporting obligations, we will no longer be required to file periodic reports, including financial information, proxy solicitation materials, or other information with the SEC. This will cause our common stock to be ineligible for quotation on the OTCBB, which will likely negatively impact the liquidity, trading volume and trading prices of our common stock. We do intend to have our common stock qualified for quotation on the “pink sheets”. In addition, our ability to raise additional capital if needed could be negatively impacted due to a lack of publicly available information about us. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 