ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Based on current and known information, Winland believes that the following identifies the most significant risk factors that could affect its business. However, the risks and uncertainties Winland faces are not limited to those discussed below. There could be other unknown or unpredictable economic, business, competitive or regulatory factors, including factors that Winland currently believes to be immaterial, that could in fact have material adverse effects on Winland’s financial position, liquidity, and results of operations. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. You should consider the following risk factors, in addition to other information presented or incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K in evaluating Winland’s business and your investment in Winland. Winland is dependent on a small number of customers and such customer’s response to the current uncertain economic conditions. Winland’s Proprietary Products sales are dependent on a small number of security products distributors with the top five distributors together representing over 65% of total Company sales in 2011 and 2010. Winland does not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from its customers. Customers may also cancel their orders, change quantities, or delay delivery for a number of reasons. Cancellations, reductions, or delays by a significant customer or by a group of customers may harm Winland’s results of operations by reducing the volumes of products sold. Winland outsources the manufacturing of its line of Proprietary Products. Winland has an agreement with an outside contract manufacturing firm to manufacture its proprietary products through December 31, 2013. Based on the agreement, Winland issues purchase orders with definitive quantities, deliveries and price. Winland cannot guarantee the ability of the manufacturer to timely deliver against the purchase orders which may cause Winland to experience delays in meeting its customer’s delivery requirements. If experienced, these delays may impact sales volumes and increase costs. Winland’s operating results may vary significantly from period to period. Winland experiences fluctuations in its operating results. Some of the principal factors that contribute to these fluctuations are Winland’s effectiveness in managing inventory levels; changes in the cost and availability of finished goods purchased from its manufacturer; and changes in demand for Winland’s products. Results of operations in any period, therefore, should not be considered indicative of the results to be expected for any future period. Winland’s operating results, financial condition and cash flows may be adversely impacted by the affect the current global economic uncertainty has on its customers. The current economic uncertainty has severely impacted banks and other lenders, limiting the ability of many businesses to the access of credit markets. Winland’s customers may choose to delay or postpone purchases of products from Winland until the economy and their businesses strengthen and this may affect its operating results, financial condition and delay and lengthen sales cycles. A continued uncertainty in the global economy could have a material adverse affect on Winland’s results of operations and financial condition. Market acceptance of our new EA800-ip product is uncertain, and we may be unable to obtain market acceptance of our EA800-ip product. The success of our EA800-ip product will depend upon the acceptance by customers of our EA800-ip product as equivalent or better than the current product or solution they are currently using for security products. Market acceptance of our EA800-ip product will depend on a number of factors, including: ● the perceived effectiveness of our EA800-ip product relative to its cost; ● the potential advantages of our EA800-ip product over alternative products; ● the development of new products and technologies by our competitors or new alternative security products;and 4 Table of Contents ● the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts. If our EA800-ip product does not achieve adequate acceptance by our customers and potential customers, we may not generate our projected revenue and our business would be materially impacted. Winland’s valuation of circumstances impacting the value of long-lived assets is based on judgment and factors that could change and result in the recognition of an impairment charge. Winland’s management exercises its best judgment in estimating future cash flows and other factors affecting the valuation of long-lived assets including the operating and macroeconomic factors that may affect them. Management uses historical financial information, internal plans and projections and industry information in making such estimates. While Winland currently believes the expected cash flows from these long-lived assets exceeds the carrying amount, materially different assumptions regarding future performance and discount rates could result in future impairment losses. In particular, if Winland no longer believes it will achieve its long-term projected sales or operating expenses, it may conclude in connection with any future impairment tests that the estimated fair value of our long-lived assets is less than the book value and recognize an impairment charge. Such impairment would adversely affect Winland’s business and earnings. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations. Winland requires effective internal control over financial reporting in order to provide reasonable assurance with respect to its financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurances with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. Failure to meet financial requirements for the continued listing of Winland's stock on a national stock exchange would impair the liquidity of its stock and its availability to access the capital markets, if necessary. On December 5, 2011 Winland received a notice from NYSE Amex LLC indicating that Winland was not in compliance with the continued listing standard requiring Winland to maintain minimum stockholders’ equity of $4,000,000 and not report losses from continuing operations and/or net losses in three of its four most recent fiscal years. Winland submitted a plan of compliance which requires Winland to regain compliance with the continued listing standards by May 29, 2013. On February 7, 2012 Winland received a letter from the NYSE Regulation informing Winland that it made a reasonable demonstration of its ability to regain compliance with the continued listing standards by March 29, 2013. Winland is currently not in compliance with the continued listing standards of the NYSE Amex Exchange, however, the NYSE Amex Exchange has given Winland an extension until May 29, 2013 to regain compliance with the continued listing standards. Winland can make no assurance that it will be able to remain listed on the NYSE Amex Exchange. If Winland’s stock is delisted from trading on the NYSE Amex Exchange, the liquidity of the stock would be impaired and access to the capital markets, if necessary, may not be possible. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 