ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSCertain statements contained in this report are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including statements using terminology such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “could,” “possible,” “plan,” “project,” “should,” “will,” “forecast” and similar words or expressions. Winland intends that all forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. Although Winland believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, there is no assurance that such assumptions are correct or that these expectations will be achieved. Such assumptions involve important risks and uncertainties that could significantly affect results in the future. Table of Contents 5 Based on current and known information, Winland believes that the following identifies the most significant risk factors that could affect its business. However, the risks and uncertainties Winland faces are not limited to those discussed below. There could be other unknown or unpredictable economic, business, competitive or regulatory factors, including factors that Winland currently believes to be immaterial, that could have material adverse effects on Winland’s financial position, liquidity, and results of operations. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods Winland is dependent on a small number of customers. Winland’s Electronic Manufacturing Services (EMS) product sales are dependent on a small number of original equipment manufacturer (OEM) customers with the top three customers together representing 57% of EMS sales. Accordingly, Winland is dependent on the continued growth, viability and financial stability of its customers, which consist of original equipment manufacturers of test and precise measurement equipment, consumer beds, global positioning systems (GPS) and medical equipment. Winland generally does not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from its customers, and has often experienced reduced lead times in customer orders. Customers may cancel their orders, change production quantities, and delay production for a number of reasons. Uncertain economic conditions have resulted, and may continue to result, in some of Winland’s customers delaying the delivery of some of the products manufactured for them and placing purchase orders for lower volumes of products than previously anticipated. Cancellations, reductions, or delays by a significant customer or by a group of customers have harmed, and may continue to harm, Winland’s results of operations by reducing the volumes of products manufactured, as well as by causing a delay in the recovery of its expenditures for inventory in preparation for customer orders and lower asset utilization resulting in lower gross margins. Winland is subject to intense competition in the EMS industry. Winland competes against many providers of electronics manufacturing services. Certain competitors have substantially greater resources and geographically diversified U.S. and international operations. Winland may also be at a competitive disadvantage with respect to price when compared to manufacturers with lower cost structures and enhanced volume supplier purchasing capability. Accordingly, to compete effectively, Winland must continue to provide technologically advanced manufacturing services, maintain strict quality standards, respond flexibly and rapidly to customers’ design and schedule changes and deliver products on a reliable basis at competitive prices. Customers may cancel their orders, change production quantities or delay production. Start-up costs and inefficiencies related to new or transferred programs can adversely affect operating results and such costs may not be recoverable if such new programs or transferred programs are cancelled. Winland’s operating results may vary significantly from period to period. Winland experiences fluctuations in its operating results. Some of the principal factors that contribute to these fluctuations are: Winland’s effectiveness in managing manufacturing processes, costs, and timing of component purchases so that components are available when needed for production, while mitigating risks of purchasing inventory in excess of immediate production needs; the degree to which Winland is able to utilize its available manufacturing capacity; changes in the cost and availability of components, which often occur in the electronics manufacturing industry and which affect Winland and its ability to meet delivery schedules; and changes in demand for Winland’s products. Results of operations in any period, therefore, should not be considered indicative of the results to be expected for any future period. Table of Contents 6 Winland’s future growth strategies may be risky. Winland has explored and intends to continue exploring opportunities to buy other businesses or technologies that could complement, enhance, or expand its current business or product lines or that might otherwise offer Winland growth opportunities. Winland may have difficulty finding these opportunities or, if Winland does identify these opportunities, Winland may not be able to complete the transactions for reasons including a failure to secure financing. Any transactions that Winland is able to identify and complete may involve a number of risks, including: the diversion of management’s attention from Winland’s existing business to integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired or combined business or joint venture; possible adverse effects on Winland’s operating results during the integration process; and Winland’s possible inability to achieve the intended objectives of the transaction. In addition, Winland may not be able to successfully or profitably integrate, operate, maintain, and manage Winland’s newly acquired operations or employees. Winland may not be able to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, which may lead to operational inefficiencies or non-compliance with regulatory agencies. In addition, future acquisitions may result in dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of additional debt. Winland’s operating results, financial condition and cash flows may be adversely impacted by worldwide political and economic uncertainties and specific conditions in the markets it addresses. General U.S. and worldwide economic conditions have recently experienced a downturn due to slower economic activity, increased energy costs, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns, recent international conflicts and terrorist and military activity, and the impact of natural disasters and public health emergencies. These conditions make it extremely difficult for Winland’s customers, its vendors and Winland to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and they could cause U.S. and foreign businesses to slow spending on Winland’s products and services, which would delay and lengthen sales cycles. Winland cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or subsequent economic recovery in the U.S. or worldwide. If the economy or markets in which Winland operates do not continue at their present levels, our business, financial condition and results of operations will likely be materially and adversely affected. Winland may fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting. Winland requires effective internal control over financial reporting in order to provide reasonable assurance with respect to its financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurances with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. If Winland cannot provide reasonable assurance with respect to its financial statements and effectively prevent fraud, its financial statements could become materially misleading, which could adversely affect the trading price of Winland’s common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Table of Contents 7 ITEM 