ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Business We operate in highly competitive industries and our success depends on our ability to effectively compete with numerous domestic and foreign businesses. We face competition from a number of domestic and foreign businesses, some of which have substantially greater financial resources than we do, which could impact our ability to win new contracts and renew existing contracts. We continue to operate in a period of intense price-based competition, which could affect the number and the profitability of the contracts we win. Contract awards by lottery authorities are sometimes challenged by unsuccessful bidders, which can result in costly and protracted legal proceedings that can result in delayed implementation or cancellation of the award. In addition, the domestic lottery industry has matured such that the number of states conducting lotteries is unlikely to increase materially in the near-term. 20 We believe our principal competitors in the instant ticket lottery business have increased their production capacity, which is expected to increase pricing pressures in the instant ticket business and adversely affect our ability to win or renew instant ticket contracts or reduce the profitability of instant ticket contracts that we do win. Our domestic instant ticket business could also be adversely affected should additional foreign competitors in Canada export their lottery products to the U.S. or should other foreign competitors establish printing facilities in the U.S. or Canada to supply the U.S. We also compete in the international instant ticket lottery business with low-price, low-quality printers in a regulated environment where laws are being reinterpreted so as to create competition from non-traditional lottery vendors and products. We also face increased price competition in the online lottery business from our two principal competitors. Since late 2007, the lottery authorities in South Carolina, West Virginia, South Dakota, New Hampshire and Vermont awarded new online lottery contracts to our competitors. Our online lottery contracts with South Carolina, West Virginia and South Dakota terminated on November 15, 2008, June 27, 2009 and August 2, 2009, respectively, and our online lottery contracts with New Hampshire and Vermont terminated on June 30, 2010. During 2010, the lottery authority in Maine awarded a new online lottery contract to one of our competitors, which award was subsequently invalidated as a result of our protest. The competitor has appealed the protest ruling. There can be no assurance that the appeal will be denied, that our existing contract will be extended or that we will be the winning bidder under any reissued RFP. Pricing pressures and potential privatizations (including partial privatizations through private management agreements or otherwise) of some lotteries may also change the manner in which online and instant ticket contracts are awarded and the profitability of those contracts. Any future success of our lottery business will also depend, in part, on the success of the lottery industry in attracting and retaining players in the face of increased competition for these players' entertainment dollars, as well as our own success in developing innovative products and systems to achieve this goal. Our failure to achieve this goal could reduce revenues from our lottery operations. As a result of pressures on state and other government budgets, other forms of gaming may be legalized, which could adversely impact our business. Our gaming-related businesses face competition from other vendors and illegal operators, as well as changes in law and regulation that can affect our future profitability. In our prepaid phone card business, we are operating in a period of intense price-based competition, which is likely to continue to negatively affect our revenues and operating margins. Unfavorable economic conditions may adversely affect our business and financial condition. Unfavorable general economic conditions have had and may continue to have a negative effect on our business and results of operations. We cannot fully predict the effects that the current economic slowdown will have on us as it also impacts our customers, vendors and business partners. However, we believe that the difficult economic conditions have contributed to reductions in spending on marketing by our customers and, in certain instances, less favorable terms under our contracts, as many of our customers face significant budget shortfalls and look to cut costs. We believe that the lottery and wide area gaming businesses are less susceptible to reductions in consumer spending than the destination gaming business (e.g., resort/casino venues, which are typically less accessible than lottery and wide area gaming retail outlets) and other parts of the consumer sector. However, we believe that declines in consumer spending have adversely impacted the lottery and wide area gaming businesses to some extent, and further declines will likely exacerbate these negative effects. 21 Our business is subject to evolving technology. The sales of all of our products and services are affected by changing technology, new legislation and evolving industry standards. Our ability to anticipate or respond to such changes and to develop and introduce new and enhanced products and services on a timely basis will be a significant factor in our ability to expand, remain competitive, attract new customers and retain existing contracts. We can give no assurance that we will achieve the necessary technological advances or have the financial resources needed to introduce new products or services on a timely basis or that we will otherwise have the ability to compete effectively in the industries we serve. We are heavily dependent on our ability to renew our long-term contracts with our customers and we could lose substantial revenue and profits if we are unable to renew certain of our contracts. Generally, our customer contracts contain initial multi-year terms, with optional renewal periods held by the customer. Upon the expiration of a contract, including any extensions thereof, new contracts may be awarded through a competitive bidding process. Since late 2007, the lottery authorities in South Carolina, West Virginia, South Dakota, New Hampshire and Vermont have awarded new online lottery contracts to our competitors. Our revenue from our online contracts in these states represented approximately $23.0 million, or approximately 2%, of our total 2008 revenue. During 2010, the lottery authority in Maine awarded a new online lottery contract to one of our competitors, which award was subsequently invalidated as a result of our protest. The competitor has appealed the protest ruling. There can be no assurance that the appeal will be denied, that our existing contract will be extended or that we will be the winning bidder under any reissued RFP. We are also required by certain of our lottery customers to provide surety or performance bonds in connection with our contracts. There can be no assurance that we will continue to be able to obtain surety or performance bonds on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our inability to provide such bonds would materially and adversely affect our ability to renew existing, or obtain new lottery contracts. There can be no assurance that our current contracts will be extended or that we will be awarded new contracts as a result of competitive bidding processes in the future. The termination, expiration or failure to renew one or more of our contracts could cause us to lose substantial revenues and profits, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to win or renew other contracts or pursue acquisitions or other growth initiatives. See the table in "Business—Contract Procurement" in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding the potential expiration dates of our U.S. lottery contracts. We may not have sufficient cash flows from operating activities, cash on hand and available borrowings under our credit facilities to finance required capital expenditures under new contracts, service our indebtedness and meet our other cash needs. These obligations require a significant amount of cash. Our online lottery and server-based interactive gaming machine businesses generally require significant upfront capital expenditures for terminal assembly, software customization and implementation, systems and equipment installation and telecommunications configuration. Historically, we have funded these upfront costs through cash flows generated from operations, available cash on hand and borrowings under our credit facilities. Our ability to continue to procure new contracts will depend on, among other things, our then present liquidity levels or our ability to obtain additional financing on commercially reasonable terms. If we do not have adequate liquidity or are unable to obtain financing for these upfront costs on favorable terms or at all, we may not be able to bid on certain contracts, which could restrict our ability to grow and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Moreover, we may not realize the return on investment that we anticipate on new 22 contracts due to a variety of factors, including lower than anticipated retail sales, higher than anticipated capital or operating expenses and unanticipated regulatory developments or litigation. As of December 31, 2010, we had total indebtedness of approximately $1,396.7 million, or approximately 75.5% of our total capitalization, consisting primarily of senior secured term loan and revolving credit facilities under our credit agreement and our senior subordinated notes. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to some extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to meet our commitments, we will be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as refinancing or restructuring our indebtedness, selling material assets or operations or seeking to raise additional debt or equity capital. We cannot assure you that any of these actions could be completed on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms or at all, or that these actions would enable us to continue to satisfy our capital requirements. Moreover, our existing or future debt agreements contain restrictive covenants that may prohibit us from adopting these alternatives. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt. Our credit facilities and the indentures governing our senior subordinated notes impose certain restrictions. Failure to comply with any of these restrictions could result in the acceleration of the maturity of our indebtedness. Were this to occur, we would not have sufficient cash to pay our accelerated indebtedness. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our debt agreements, including our credit facilities and the indentures governing our senior subordinated notes may adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in new business activities. Our credit facilities and/or indentures restrict our ability to, among other thing: •declare dividends or redeem or repurchase capital stock; •prepay, redeem or purchase other debt; •incur liens; •make loans, guarantees, acquisitions and investments; •incur additional indebtedness; •engage in sale and leaseback transactions; •amend or otherwise alter debt and other material agreements; •make capital expenditures; •engage in mergers, acquisitions or asset sales; •transact with affiliates; and •alter the business we conduct. In addition, our credit facilities require us to maintain certain financial ratios. As a result of these covenants, we will be limited in the manner in which we can conduct our business, and may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. Accordingly, these restrictions may limit our ability to successfully operate our business. A failure to comply with the restrictions contained in the credit facilities or the indentures, or to maintain the financial ratios required by the credit facilities, could lead to an event of default which could result in an acceleration of the indebtedness. See Note 8 (Long-Term and Other Debt) to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding these financial ratios. 23 There can be no assurance that our future operating results will be sufficient to enable compliance with the covenants in our credit facilities, our indentures or other indebtedness or to remedy any such default. In addition, in the event of an acceleration, we may not have or be able to obtain sufficient funds to make any accelerated payments. Our business depends on the protection of our intellectual property and proprietary information. We believe that our success depends, in part, on protecting our intellectual property in the U.S. and in foreign countries. Our intellectual property includes certain patents and trademarks relating to our instant ticket games and wagering systems, as well as proprietary or confidential information that is not subject to patent or similar protection. Our intellectual property protects the integrity of our games, systems, products and services, which is a core value of the industries in which we operate. For example, our intellectual property is designed to ensure the security of the printing of our instant lottery tickets and provide simple and secure validation of our lottery tickets. Competitors may independently develop similar or superior products, software, systems or business models. In cases where our intellectual property is not protected by an enforceable patent, such independent development may result in a significant diminution in the value of our intellectual property. There can be no assurance that we will be able to protect our intellectual property. We enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, vendors, consultants and, to the extent legally permissible, our customers, and generally control access to, and the distribution of, our game designs, systems and other software documentation and other proprietary information, as well as the designs, systems and other software documentation and other information that we license from others. Despite our efforts to protect these proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may try to copy our gaming products, business models or systems, use certain of our confidential information to develop competing products, or develop independently or otherwise obtain and use our gaming products or technology, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Policing unauthorized use of our technology is difficult and expensive, particularly because of the global nature of our operations. The laws of other countries may not adequately protect our intellectual property. There can be no assurance that our business activities, games, products and systems will not infringe upon the proprietary rights of others, or that other parties will not assert infringement claims against us. Any such claim and any resulting litigation, should it occur, could subject us to significant liability for damages and could result in invalidation of our proprietary rights, distract management, and/or require us to enter into costly and burdensome royalty and licensing agreements. Such royalty and licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or may not be available at all. In the future, we may also need to file or respond to lawsuits to defend the validity of our intellectual property rights and trade secrets, or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Such litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. We rely on products and technologies that we license from third parties. There can be no assurance that these third-party licenses, or the support for such licenses, will continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Our business competes on the basis of the security and integrity of our systems and products. We believe that our success depends, in part, on providing secure products and systems to our vendors and customers. Attempts to penetrate security measures may come from various combinations of customers, retailers, vendors, employees and others. Our ability to monitor and ensure quality of our products is periodically reviewed and enhanced. Similarly, we constantly assess the adequacy of our security systems to protect against any material loss to any of our customers and the integrity of the product to end-users. There can be no assurance that our business will not be affected by a security 24 breach or lapse, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, business and/or prospects. Our industry is subject to strict government regulations that may limit our existing operations and have a negative impact on our ability to grow. In the U.S. and many other countries, lotteries and other forms of wagering must be expressly authorized by law. Once authorized, such activities are subject to extensive and evolving governmental regulation. Moreover, such gaming regulatory requirements vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Therefore, we are subject to a wide range of complex gaming laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we are licensed. Most jurisdictions require that we be licensed, that our key personnel and certain of our security holders be found suitable or be licensed, and that our products be reviewed and approved before placement. If a license, approval or finding of suitability is required by a regulatory authority and we fail to seek or do not receive the necessary approval, license or finding of suitability, then we may be prohibited from distributing our products for use in the particular jurisdiction. The regulatory environment in any particular jurisdiction may change in the future, and any such change could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, business or prospects. Moreover, there can be no assurance that the operation of lotteries, video gaming machines, Internet gaming or other forms of lottery or wagering systems will be approved by additional jurisdictions or that those jurisdictions in which these activities are currently permitted will continue to permit such activities. There can be no assurance that law enforcement or gaming regulatory authorities will not seek to restrict our business in their jurisdictions or even institute enforcement proceedings. In addition, there can be no assurance that any instituted enforcement proceedings will be favorably resolved, or that such proceedings will not have a material adverse impact on our ability to retain and renew existing licenses or to obtain new licenses in other jurisdictions. Moreover, in addition to the risk of an enforcement action, we also potentially risk an impact on our reputation in the event of any potential legal or regulatory investigation whether or not we are ultimately accused of or found to have committed any violation. We are required to obtain and maintain licenses from various jurisdictions in order to operate certain aspects of our business and we are subject to extensive background investigations and suitability standards in our lottery business. We also will become subject to regulation in any other jurisdiction where our customers operate in the future. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain new licenses or renew any of our existing licenses, or that if such licenses are obtained, that such licenses will not be conditioned, suspended or revoked, and the loss, denial or non-renewal of any of our licenses could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, business or prospects. Lottery authorities generally conduct background investigations of the winning vendor and its employees prior to and after the award of a lottery contract. Generally, regulatory authorities have broad discretion when granting, renewing or revoking these approvals and licenses. Lottery authorities with which we do business may require the removal of any of our employees deemed to be unsuitable and are generally empowered to disqualify us from receiving a lottery contract or operating a lottery system as a result of any such investigation. Our failure, or the failure of any of our key personnel, systems or machines, in obtaining or retaining a required license or approval in one jurisdiction could negatively impact our ability (or the ability of any of our key personnel, systems or gaming machines) to obtain or retain required licenses and approvals in other jurisdictions. The failure to obtain or retain a required license or approval in any jurisdiction would decrease the geographic areas where we may operate and generate revenues, decrease our share in the gaming industry and put us at a disadvantage compared with our competitors. Some jurisdictions also require extensive personal and financial disclosure and background checks from persons and entities beneficially owning a specified percentage (typically 5% or more) of our equity securities. The failure of these beneficial owners to submit to such background checks and 25 provide required disclosure could jeopardize the award of a lottery contract to us or provide grounds for termination of an existing lottery contract. Additional restrictions are often imposed by international jurisdictions in which we market our lottery systems on foreign corporations, such as us, seeking to do business in such jurisdictions. In light of these regulations and the potential impact on our business, our restated certificate of incorporation allows for the restriction of stock ownership by persons or entities who fail to comply with informational or other regulatory requirements under applicable gaming law, who are found unsuitable to hold our stock by gaming authorities or whose stock ownership adversely affects our ability to obtain, maintain, renew or qualify for a license, contract, franchise or other regulatory approval from a gaming authority. The licensing procedures and background investigations of the authorities that regulate our businesses and the amendment may inhibit potential investors from becoming significant stockholders or inhibit existing stockholders from retaining or increasing their ownership. We have developed and implemented an internal compliance program in an effort to ensure that we comply with legal requirements imposed in connection with our wagering-related activities, as well as legal requirements generally applicable to all publicly traded corporations. The compliance program is run on a day-to-day basis by our Chief Compliance Officer with legal advice provided by our General Counsel and outside experts. The compliance program is overseen by the Compliance Committee of our Board of Directors, consisting of four outside directors. There can be no assurance that such steps will prevent the violation of one or more laws or regulations, or that a violation by us or an employee will not result in the imposition of a monetary fine or suspension or revocation of one or more of our licenses. Gaming opponents persist in their efforts to curtail the expansion of legalized gaming, which, if successful, could limit our existing operations. Legalized gaming is subject to opposition from gaming opponents. There can be no assurance that this opposition will not succeed in preventing the legalization of gaming in jurisdictions where these activities are presently prohibited or prohibiting or limiting the expansion of gaming where it is currently permitted, in either case to the detriment of our business, financial condition, results and prospects. We may not succeed in realizing the anticipated benefits of our joint ventures and strategic investments and relationships. Part of our corporate strategy is to pursue growth through joint ventures and strategic investments as a means to, among other things, gain access to new and tactically important geographies, business opportunities and technical expertise, while simultaneously offering the potential for reducing capital requirements. These joint ventures and strategic investments currently include LNS (which succeeded CLN as the holder of the concession to operate the instant ticket lottery in Italy that began on October 1, 2010), our joint ventures in China, RCN, our Northstar joint venture to act as the private manager of the Illinois lottery, our Sciplay joint venture with Playtech to deliver Internet gaming solutions to government-sponsored and other lotteries and certain other gaming operators and our equity investment in Sportech. We are party to other strategic agreements with Playtech relating to gaming machines that contemplate our use of and reliance on Playtech's back-end technology platform in international territories. Failure to timely migrate to the new back-end technology platform could result in Global Draw being unable to meet certain contract commitments, which could negatively impact our business, results of operations and prospects. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully develop and market Internet and land-based gaming products under our agreements with Playtech. 26 Our Northstar joint venture, in which we are a 20% equity holder, was awarded the agreement to be the private manager for the Illinois lottery for a ten-year term following a competitive procurement, which agreement was executed on January 18, 2011 (the "PMA"). See "Business—Operational Overview—Printed Products—Northstar Lottery Group" in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Operations under the PMA are scheduled to commence in 2011 following a transition period. On January 26, 2011, the Illinois Appellate Court upheld a constitutional challenge to the revenue statute that, among other things, amended the Illinois lottery law to facilitate the PMA, on grounds that the statute impermissibly addressed more than one subject. The Illinois Supreme Court subsequently granted a stay of the Appellate Court's decision pending the appeal to the Illinois Supreme Court by the State of Illinois. We cannot predict what effect, if any, the court decision, if it is not reversed by the Illinois Supreme Court or addressed through new authorizing legislation, will have on the validity of the PMA. If the PMA is ultimately invalidated, we may lose our investment in Northstar and our existing instant ticket supply agreement with the Illinois lottery may come up for re-bid. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of these joint ventures, investments and other strategic relationships or others that we may enter into, or may not realize them in the timeframe expected. These arrangements pose significant risks that could have a negative effect on our operations, including: the potential diversion of our management's attention from our core business to, for example, integrate technologies; the potential failure to realize anticipated synergies, economies of scale or other value associated with the arrangements; unanticipated costs and other unanticipated events or circumstances; possible adverse effects on our operating results during any integration process; impairment charges if joint ventures, or strategic investments or relationships are not as successful as we originally anticipate; and our possible inability to achieve the intended objectives of the arrangements. Furthermore, our joint ventures and other strategic relationships pose risks arising from our reliance on our partners and our lack of sole decision-making authority, which may give rise to disputes between us and our joint venture and other strategic partners. Our joint venture and other strategic partners may have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our interests and goals, take actions contrary to our objectives or policies, undergo a change of control, experience financial and other difficulties or be unable or unwilling to fulfill their obligations under our arrangements. The failure to avoid the risks described above or other risks associated with such arrangements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be required to recognize additional impairment charges. We assess our goodwill and other intangible assets and our long-lived assets as and when required by accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. ("GAAP") to determine whether they are impaired. In 2010, we recorded asset impairment charges of approximately $17.5 million related to underperforming Lottery Systems contracts, $3.0 million of impairments related to obsolete equipment in Lottery Systems, $2.5 million of impairments related to obsolete equipment in Global Draw and $8.3 million of accelerated depreciation on existing platform technology due to Global Draw's migration to new platform technology. In 2009, we recorded asset impairment charges of approximately $24.7 million primarily related to underperforming Lottery Systems contracts. In 2008, we recorded approximately $76.2 million in impairment charges primarily related to the impairment of certain hardware and software assets and underperforming Lottery Systems contracts. Refer to the heading "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies—Valuation of long-lived and intangible assets and goodwill" in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and Note 1 (Description of the Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies) and Note 4 (Property and Equipment) included in the Notes to Consolidated 27 Financial Statements, for additional discussion of impairment charges. We cannot predict the occurrence of impairments and there can be no assurance that we will not have to record additional asset impairment charges in the future. Our inability to complete future acquisitions of gaming and related businesses and integrate those businesses successfully could limit our future growth. Part of our corporate strategy is to continue to pursue expansion and acquisition opportunities in gaming and related businesses. In connection with any such acquisitions, we could face significant challenges in managing and integrating the expanded or combined operations, including acquired assets, operations and personnel. There can be no assurance that acquisition opportunities will be available on acceptable terms or at all or that we will be able to obtain necessary financing or regulatory approvals to complete potential acquisitions. Our ability to succeed in implementing our strategy will depend to some degree upon the ability of our management to identify, complete and successfully integrate commercially viable acquisitions. Acquisition transactions may disrupt our ongoing business and distract management from other responsibilities. Our revenues fluctuate due to seasonality and timing of equipment sales and, therefore, our periodic operating results are not guarantees of future performance. Our revenues can fluctuate due to seasonality in some components of our business. The summer season historically has been the weakest part of the year for certain parts of our lottery business, particularly where our revenues are tied to a percentage of retail sales such as under our CSP contracts. The fourth quarter is typically the weakest quarter for Global Draw due to reduced wagering during the holiday season. This adversely affects the amounts wagered and our corresponding service revenues. In addition, our revenues in our Lottery Systems Group can be somewhat dependent on the size of jackpots of lottery games such as Powerball and Mega Millions during the relevant period. Lottery and wagering equipment sales and software license revenues usually reflect a limited number of large transactions, which may not recur on an annual basis. Consequently, revenues and operating margins can vary substantially from period to period as a result of the timing and magnitude of major equipment sales and software license revenue. As a general matter, lottery and wagering equipment sales generate lower operating margins than revenue from other aspects of our business. In addition, instant ticket sales may vary depending on the season and timing of contract awards, changes in customer budgets, ticket inventory levels, lottery retail sales and general economic conditions. Our success depends in part on our ability to develop, enhance and/or introduce successful gaming concepts and game content. In the Diversified Gaming Group, our Global Draw and Games Media businesses develop and source game content both internally and through third-party suppliers. Games Media also seeks to secure third-party brands for incorporation into its game content. We believe creative and appealing game content produces more revenue and net win for the gaming machine customers of these businesses and provides them with a competitive advantage, which in turn enhances the revenues of Global Draw and Games Media and their ability to attract new business or to retain existing business. In our lottery business, we believe that innovative gaming concepts and game content, such as multiplier games for our Lottery Systems Group and licensed brand game content for our Printed Products Group, can enhance the revenue of our lottery customers and distinguish us from our competitors. There can be no assurance that we will be able to sustain the success of our existing game content or effectively develop or obtain from third parties new and enhanced game content that will be widely accepted both by our customers and their end users. 28 We are dependent on our suppliers and contract manufacturers, and any failure of these parties to meet our performance and quality standards or requirements could cause us to incur additional costs or lose customers. Our production of instant lottery tickets, in particular, depends upon a continuous supply of raw materials, supplies, power and natural resources. Our operating results could be adversely affected by an interruption or cessation in the supply of these items or a serious quality assurance lapse. We transmit certain wagering data utilizing satellite transponders, generally pursuant to long-term contracts. The technical failure of any of these satellites would require us to obtain other communication services, including other satellite access. In some cases, we employ backup systems to limit our exposure in the event of such a failure. There can be no assurance of access to such other satellites or, if available, the ability to obtain the use of such other satellites on favorable terms or in a timely manner. While satellite failures are infrequent, the operation of satellites is outside of our control. In addition, our Global Draw business has entered into a number of significant contracts whose performance depends upon our third party suppliers delivering equipment on schedule for Global Draw to meet its contract commitments. Failure of the suppliers to meet their delivery commitments could result in Global Draw being in breach of and subsequently losing those contracts, which loss could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may be liable for product defects or other claims relating to our products. Our products could be defective, fail to perform as designed or otherwise cause harm to our customers, their equipment or their products. If any of our products are defective, we may be required to recall the products and/or repair or replace them, which could result in substantial expenses and affect our profitability. Any problems with the performance of our products could harm our reputation, which could result in a loss of sales to customers and/or potential customers. In addition, if our customers believe that they have suffered harm caused by our products, they could bring claims against us that could result in significant liability. Any claims brought against us by customers may result in diversion of management's time and attention, expenditure of large amounts of cash on legal fees, expenses, and payment of damages, decreased demand for our products and services, and injury to our reputation. Our insurance may not sufficiently cover a large judgment against us or a large settlement payment, and is subject to customary deductibles, limits and exclusions. We have foreign operations, which subjects us to additional risks. We are a global business and derive a substantial and growing portion of our revenue and profits from operations outside the United States. In the year ended December 31, 2010, we derived approximately 47% of our revenue from our customers outside the United States. Our operations in foreign jurisdictions subject us to risks customarily associated with such operations, including: •the complexity of foreign laws, regulations and markets; •the impact of foreign labor laws and disputes; •other economic, tax and regulatory policies of local governments; and •the ability to attract and retain key personnel in foreign jurisdictions. Additionally, foreign taxes paid by our foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures on their earnings may not be recovered against our U.S. tax liability. At December 31, 2010, we had a deferred tax asset for our foreign tax credit ("FTC") carry forward of approximately $33.7 million. Although we will continue to explore tax planning strategies to use all of our FTC, at December 31, 2010, we established a valuation allowance of approximately $33.7 million against the FTC deferred tax asset to reduce the asset to the net amount that our management estimates is "more likely than not" to be realized. 29 Our consolidated financial results are significantly affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Foreign currency exchange rate exposures arise from current transactions and anticipated transactions denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars and from the translation of foreign currency balance sheet accounts into U.S. dollar-denominated balance sheet accounts. We are exposed to currency exchange rate fluctuations because a significant portion of our revenues is denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, particularly the British Pound Sterling and the Euro. Exchange rate fluctuations have in the past adversely affected our operating results and cash flows and may adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows and the value of our assets outside the U.S. in the future. In addition, our ability to expand successfully in foreign jurisdictions involves other risks, including difficulties in integrating our foreign operations, risks associated with entering jurisdictions in which we may have little experience and the day-to-day management of a growing and increasingly geographically diverse company. Our investment in foreign jurisdictions often entails entering into joint ventures or other business relationships with locally based entities, which can involve additional risks arising from our lack of sole decision-making authority, our reliance on a partner's financial condition, inconsistency between our business interests or goals and those of our partners and disputes between us and our partners. In particular, our investment in LNS (which succeeded CLN as the holder of the concession to operate the instant ticket lottery in Italy beginning on October 1, 2010) is a minority investment in a joint venture whose largest equity holder is Lottomatica, and, although certain corporate actions require our prior consent, we do not control decisions relating to the governance of LNS. Through our joint ventures and wholly owned foreign enterprises, we have lottery-related investments and business operations in China, from which we expect to derive a growing portion of income. Our business and results of operations in China are subject to a number of risks, including risks relating to competition in China, our ability to finance our operations in China, the complex regulatory environment in China, the political climate in China, the Chinese economy and our joint venture and other business partners in China. Two of our joint ventures are with locally based state-owned enterprises, which can potentially heighten the joint venture-related risks described above relating to inconsistency of business interests and disputes. We anticipate that continued lottery related growth in China depends in part on sustained demand for lottery tickets at higher price points, as well as continued expansion of the retailer network and optimization of retailer inventories. There can be no assurance that lottery ticket demand will be sustained at higher price points, and we cannot predict the rate of retailer expansion or the extent of inventory optimization. There can be no assurance that legal and regulatory requirements in China will not change or that China's central or local governments will not impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would impose additional costs on our operations in China or even restrict or prohibit such operations. For example, comprehensive legislation regulating competition took effect on August 1, 2008. This law, among other things, prohibits certain types of agreements (unless they fall within specified exemptions) and certain behavior classified as abuse of dominant market position or intellectual property rights. Additionally, new lottery regulations providing for enhanced supervision of the lottery industry in China became effective on July 1, 2009. We cannot predict with certainty what impact such laws and regulations (or implementing rules or enforcement policy) will have on our business in China. We may not realize the operating efficiencies, competitive position or financial results that we anticipate from our investments in foreign jurisdictions and our failure to effectively manage the foregoing risks associated with our operations in foreign jurisdictions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, business or prospects. 30 Certain holders of our common stock exert significant influence over the Company and may make decisions with which other stockholders may disagree. In August 2004, MacAndrews & Forbes Holdings Inc. was issued approximately 25% of our outstanding common stock in connection with its conversion of our then outstanding Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. According to an amendment to Schedule 13D filed with the SEC on December 9, 2010, this holder beneficially owns 30,700,737 shares of our common stock, or approximately 33.5% of our currently outstanding common stock. Such holder is entitled to appoint up to four members of our Board of Directors under a stockholders' agreement with us, as supplemented, which we originally entered into with holders of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, and certain actions of the Company require the approval of such holder. As a result, this holder has the ability to exert significant influence over our business and may make decisions with which other stockholders may disagree, including, among other things, delaying, discouraging or preventing a change of control of the Company or a potential merger, consolidation, tender offer, takeover or other business combination. If certain of our key personnel leave us, our business will be significantly adversely affected. We depend on the continued performance of A. Lorne Weil, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Michael Chambrello, Chief Executive Officer—Asia-Pacific Region, as well as the members of our senior management team. Messrs. Weil and Chambrello have extensive experience in the lottery and gaming industry and have contributed significantly to the growth of our business. We rely on Mr. Weil's overall strategic vision and his direction on business development projects, including mergers and acquisitions. We rely on Mr. Chambrello to maintain and grow our China business. If we lose their services or any of our other senior officers and cannot find suitable replacements for such persons in a timely manner, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Mr. Weil has an employment agreement that is scheduled to expire at the end of 2015. Mr. Chambrello has an employment agreement that is scheduled to expire at the end of 2013. We could incur costs in the event of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws. Our operations and real properties are subject to U.S. and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to air emissions, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, and the cleanup of contaminated sites. We could incur costs, including cleanup costs, fines or penalties, and third-party claims as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws. Some of our operations require environmental permits and controls to prevent or reduce environmental pollution, and these permits are subject to review, renewal and modification by issuing authorities. Failure to perform under our lottery contracts may result in litigation, substantial monetary liquidated damages and contract termination. Our business subjects us to contract penalties and risks of litigation, including due to potential allegations that we have not fully performed under our contracts or that goods or services we supply are defective in some respect. Litigation is pending in Colombia arising out of the termination of certain Colombian lottery contracts in 1993. An agency of the Colombian government has asserted claims against certain parties, including our subsidiary, SGI, which owned a minority interest in Wintech de Colombia S.A., or Wintech (now liquidated), the former operator of the Colombian national lottery. The claims are for, among other things, contract penalties, interest and the costs of a bond issued by a Colombian surety. For additional information regarding this litigation, see "Legal Proceedings" in Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. There can be no assurance that this litigation will not be finally resolved adversely to us or result in material liability. 31 In addition, our lottery contracts typically permit a lottery authority to terminate the contract at any time for material failure to perform, other specified reasons and, in many cases, for no reason at all. Lottery contracts to which we are a party also frequently contain exacting implementation schedules and performance requirements and the failure to meet these schedules and requirements may result in substantial monetary liquidated damages, as well as possible contract termination. We are also required by certain of our lottery customers to provide surety or performance bonds. We have paid or incurred liquidated damages under our lottery contracts and material amounts of liquidated damages could be imposed on us in the future, which could, if imposed, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, business or prospects. Labor disputes may have an adverse effect on our operations. Certain of our employees are represented by unions, including employees at our printing facilities in Australia, Canada, Chile and the United Kingdom. There can be no assurance that we will not encounter any conflicts or strikes with any labor union that represents our employees, which could have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations, could cause us to lose customers or could cause our customers' operations to be affected and might have permanent effects on our business. The price of our common stock has been volatile and may continue to be volatile. Our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as, variations in operating results, actions by various regulatory agencies, litigation, financial estimates and recommendation by securities analysts, rating agency reports, performance of other companies that investors or security analysts deem comparable to us, news reports relating to our business, our markets or general market conditions. During the 52-week period ended February 25, 2011, our stock price fluctuated between a high of $17.01 and a low of $6.58. This significant stock price fluctuation may make it more difficult for our stockholders to sell their common stock when they want and at prices they find attractive. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF MATTERS No disclosure required pursuant to this Item. 