ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following information with the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this annual report on Form 10-K. We operate in highly competitive industries and our success depends on our ability to effectively compete with numerous domestic and foreign businesses. We face competition from a number of domestic and foreign businesses, some of which have substantially greater financial resources than we do, which could impact our ability to win new contracts and renew existing contracts. We continue to operate in a period of intense price-based competition, which could affect the profitability of the contracts we do win. Contract awards by lottery authorities are sometimes challenged by unsuccessful bidders, which can result in protracted legal proceedings that can result in delayed implementation or cancellation of the award. In addition, the domestic lottery market has matured such that the number of states conducting lotteries is unlikely to increase in the near-term. Our domestic U.S. instant ticket business could be adversely affected should additional foreign competitors in Canada or Mexico export their lottery products to the U.S. or should other foreign competitors establish printing facilities in the U.S., Canada or Mexico to supply the U.S. market. We also compete in the international instant ticket lottery market with low-price, low-quality printers in a regulated environment where competition laws are being reinterpreted so as to create competition from non-traditional lottery vendors and products. Pricing pressures and potential privatization of some lotteries may also change the manner in which online and instant ticket contracts are awarded and the profitability of those contracts. Any future success of our lottery business will also depend, in part, on the success of the lottery industry in attracting and retaining players in the face of increased competition for these players’ entertainment dollars, as well as our own success in developing innovative products and systems to achieve this goal. Our failure to achieve this goal could reduce revenues from our lottery operations. We also operate in competitive markets in other parts of our business. Our pari-mutuel business faces competition from other operators, other gaming venues such as casinos and state-sponsored lotteries and other forms of legal and illegal gaming. The market for pari-mutuel wagering has seen declines over a period of years and the continuing popularity of horse and dog racing is important to the operating results of our pari-mutuel business. Our other gaming related businesses face competition from other vendors and illegal operators, as well as changes in law and regulation that can affect our future profitability. In our prepaid phone card business, we face competition from other instant lottery ticket printers utilizing similar lottery security and printing technologies, as well as alternative printing and non-printing technologies, such as smart cards, with which our products compete. Moreover, the cellular telephone industry is undergoing technology changes such that other technologies, including electronic commerce, could impact our growth opportunities and our customer relationships. Further, increasing price competition in the prepaid phone card business may continue to negatively affect our operating margins. Our business is subject to evolving technology. The markets for all of our products and services are affected by changing technology, new legislation and evolving industry standards. Our ability to anticipate or respond to such changes and to develop and introduce new and enhanced products and services on a timely basis will be a significant factor in our ability to expand, remain competitive, attract new customers and retain existing contracts. We can give no assurance that we will achieve the necessary technological advances, have the financial resources, introduce new products or services on a timely basis or otherwise have the ability to compete effectively in the markets we serve. 27 We are heavily dependent on our ability to renew our long-term contracts with our customers and we could lose substantial revenue if we are unable to renew certain of our contracts. Generally, our contracts are for initial terms of one to seven years, with optional renewal periods. Upon the expiration of a contract, including any extensions thereof, new contracts may be awarded through a competitive bidding process. Contracts representing a substantial majority of our annual revenues from lottery contracts are scheduled to expire or reach optional extension dates during the next three years. Contracts accounting for a majority of our current annual pari-mutuel revenues are scheduled to expire during the next three years. Contracts accounting for a majority of our wide area gaming revenues are scheduled to expire beginning in 2010. We are also required by certain of our lottery customers to provide surety, or performance, bonds. There can be no assurance that we will continue to be able to obtain performance bonds on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our inability to provide such bonds would materially and adversely affect our ability to renew existing, or obtain new, lottery contracts. Our contracts for the broadcast of signals are usually one year contracts. Because of competitive and other factors, we cannot provide assurance that these broadcast contracts will be renewed. Elimination of our access to racing broadcast signals could have a material adverse affect on racing revenue as well as our ability to expand the business into new markets. There can be no assurance that our current contracts will be extended or that we will be awarded new contracts as a result of competitive bidding processes in the future. The termination, expiration or failure to renew one or more of our contracts could cause us to lose substantial revenue. Our ability to bid on new contracts is dependent upon our ability to fund required up-front capital expenditures through our cash from operations or through financings. Our online lottery, wide area gaming and pari-mutuel contracts generally require significant up-front capital expenditures for terminal assembly, software customization and implementation, systems and equipment installation and telecommunications configuration. Historically, we have funded these up-front costs through cash flows generated from operations, available cash on hand and borrowings under our credit facilities. Our ability to continue to procure new contracts will depend on, among other things, our then present liquidity levels or our ability to obtain additional financing at commercially acceptable terms to finance the initial up-front costs. If we do not have adequate liquidity or are unable to obtain financing for these up-front costs on favorable terms or at all, we may not be able to bid on certain contracts, which could restrict our ability to grow and have a material adverse effect on our future profitability. Our business depends on the protection of our intellectual property and proprietary information. We believe that our success depends, in part, on protecting our intellectual property in the United States and in foreign countries. Our intellectual property includes certain patents and trademarks relating to our instant ticket games and wagering systems, as well as proprietary or confidential information that is not subject to patent or similar protection. Our intellectual property protects the integrity of our games, systems, products and services, which is a core value of the industries in which we operate. For example, our intellectual property is designed to ensure the security of the printing of our instant lottery tickets and prepaid phone cards and provide simple and secure validation of our lottery tickets. Competitors may independently develop similar or superior products, software, systems or business models. In cases where our intellectual property is not protected by an enforceable patent, such independent development may result in a significant diminution in the value of our intellectual property. There can be no assurance that we will be able to protect our intellectual property. We enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, vendors, consultants, and, to the extent legally 28 permissible, our customers, and generally control access to, and the distribution of, our game designs, systems and other software documentation and other proprietary information, as well as the designs, systems and other software documentation and other information we license from others. Despite our efforts to protect these proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may try to copy our gaming products, business models or systems, use certain of our confidential information to develop competing products, or develop independently or otherwise obtain and use our gaming products or technology, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Policing unauthorized use of our technology is difficult and expensive, particularly because of the global nature of our operations. The laws of other countries may not adequately protect our intellectual property. There can be no assurance that our business activities, games, products and systems will not infringe upon the proprietary rights of others, or that other parties will not assert infringement claims against us. Any such claim and any resulting litigation, should it occur, could subject us to significant liability for damages and could result in invalidation of our proprietary rights, distract management, and/or require us to enter into costly and burdensome royalty and licensing agreements. Such royalty and licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or may not be available at all. In the future, we may also need to file lawsuits to defend the validity of our intellectual property rights and trade secrets, or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Such litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. We rely on products and technologies that we license from third parties. There can be no assurance that these third-party licenses, or the support for such licenses, will continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. Our business competes on the basis of the security and integrity of our systems and products. We believe that our success depends, in part, on providing secure products and systems to our vendors and customers. Attempts to penetrate security measures may come from various combinations of customers, retailers, vendors, employees and others. Our ability to monitor and ensure quality of our products is periodically reviewed and enhanced. Similarly, we constantly assess the adequacy of our security systems to protect against any material loss to any of our customers and the integrity of the product to end-users. There can be no assurance that our business might not be affected by a security breach or lapse which could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our industry is subject to strict government regulations that may limit our existing operations and have a negative impact on our ability to grow. In the United States and many other countries, lotteries, pari-mutuel and other forms of wagering must be expressly authorized by law. Once authorized, such activities are subject to extensive and evolving governmental regulation. Moreover, such gaming regulatory requirements vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Therefore, we are subject to a wide range of complex gaming laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we are licensed. Most jurisdictions require that we be licensed, that our key personnel and certain of our security holders be found suitable or be licensed, and that our products be reviewed and approved before placement. If a license, approval or finding of suitability is required by a regulatory authority and we fail to seek or do not receive the necessary approval, license or finding of suitability, then we may be prohibited from distributing our products for use in the respective jurisdiction. The regulatory environment in any particular jurisdiction may change in the future, and any such change could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Moreover, there can be no assurance that the operation of lotteries, pari-mutuel wagering facilities, video gaming industry machines, Internet gaming or other forms of lottery or wagering systems will be approved by additional jurisdictions or that those jurisdictions in which these activities are currently permitted will continue to permit such 29 activities. While we believe that we have developed procedures and policies designed to comply with the requirements of evolving laws , there can be no assurance that law enforcement or gaming regulatory authorities will not seek to restrict our business in their jurisdictions or even institute enforcement proceedings. Moreover, in addition to the risk of enforcement action, we are also at risk from loss of business reputation in the event of any potential legal or regulatory investigation whether or not the Company is ultimately accused of or found to have committed any violations. We are required to obtain and maintain licenses from various state and local jurisdictions in order to operate certain aspects of our pari-mutuel business and we are subject to extensive background investigations and suitability standards in our lottery business. We also will become subject to regulation in any other jurisdiction where our customers operate in the future. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain new licenses or renew any of our licenses, and the loss, denial or non-renewal of any of our licenses could have a material adverse effect on our business. Lottery authorities generally conduct background investigations of the winning vendor and its employees prior to and after the award of a lottery contract. Generally, regulatory authorities have broad discretion when granting, renewing or revoking these approvals and licenses. Lottery authorities with which we do business may require the removal of any of our employees deemed to be unsuitable and are generally empowered to disqualify us from receiving a lottery contract or operating a lottery system as a result of any such investigation. Our failure, or the failure of any of our key personnel, systems or machines, in obtaining or retaining a required license or approval in one jurisdiction could negatively impact our ability (or the ability of any of our key personnel, systems or gaming machines) to obtain or retain required licenses and approvals in other jurisdictions. The failure to obtain or retain a required license or approval in any jurisdiction would decrease the geographic areas where we may operate and generate revenues, decrease our share in the gaming marketplace and put us at a disadvantage compared with our competitors. Some jurisdictions also require extensive personal and financial disclosure and background checks from persons and entities beneficially owning a specified percentage (typically 5% or more) of our equity securities. The failure of these beneficial owners to submit to such background checks and provide required disclosure could jeopardize the award of a lottery contract to us or provide grounds for termination of an existing lottery contract. Additional restrictions are often imposed by international jurisdictions in which we market our lottery systems on foreign corporations, such as us, seeking to do business in such jurisdictions. In light of these regulations and the potential impact on our business, the Board of Directors adopted a proposed amendment to our restated certificate of incorporation in January 2007, subject to a vote of the stockholders at our next stockholders’ meeting, which amendment would allow for the restriction of stock ownership by persons or entities who fail to comply with informational or other regulatory requirements under applicable gaming law, who are found unsuitable to hold our stock by gaming authorities or whose stock ownership adversely affect our ability to obtain, maintain, renew or qualify for a license, contract, franchise or other regulatory approval from a gaming authority. The licensing procedures and background investigations of the authorities that regulate our businesses and the proposed amendment may inhibit potential investors from becoming significant stockholders or inhibit existing shareholders from retaining or increasing their ownership. We have developed and implemented an internal compliance program in an effort to ensure that we comply with legal requirements imposed in connection with our wagering-related activities, as well as legal requirements generally applicable to all publicly traded corporations. The compliance program is run on a day-to-day basis by our Chief Compliance Officer with legal advice provided by our General Counsel and outside experts. The compliance program is overseen by the Compliance Committee of our Board of Directors, consisting of three outside directors. While we are firmly committed to full compliance with all applicable laws, there can be no assurance that such steps will prevent the violation of one or more laws or regulations, or that a violation by us or an employee will not result in the imposition of a monetary fine or suspension or revocation of one or more of our licenses. 30 Gaming opponents persist in their efforts to curtail the expansion of legalized gaming, which, if successful, could limit our existing operations. Legalized gaming is subject to opposition from gaming opponents. There can be no assurance that this opposition will not succeed in preventing the legalization of gaming in jurisdictions where these activities are presently prohibited or prohibiting or limiting the expansion of gaming where it is currently permitted, in either case to the detriment of our business, financial condition, results and prospects. Our ability to complete future acquisitions of gaming and related businesses and integrate those businesses successfully could limit our future growth. Part of our corporate strategy is to continue to pursue expansion and acquisition opportunities in gaming and related businesses, such as our acquisition of certain assets of EssNet AB, and our acquisitions of The Global Draw Ltd, and Games Media which all occurred in 2006, and we could face significant challenges in managing and integrating the expanded or combined operations including acquired assets, operations and personnel. There can be no assurance that acquisition opportunities will be available on acceptable terms or at all or that we will be able to obtain necessary financing or regulatory approvals to complete potential acquisitions. Our ability to succeed in implementing our strategy will depend to some degree upon the ability of our management to identify, complete and successfully integrate commercially viable acquisitions. Acquisition transactions may disrupt our ongoing business and distract management from other responsibilities. Any future acquisition transactions involving the use of company stock have the potential of dilution to our existing shareholders and earnings per share. Our revenues fluctuate due to seasonal, weather and other variations and you should not rely upon our periodic operating results as indications of future performance. Our pari-mutuel service revenues are subject to seasonal and weather variations. The first and fourth quarters of the calendar year traditionally comprise the weakest period for our pari-mutuel wagering service revenue. As a result of inclement weather during the winter months, a number of racetracks do not operate and those that do operate often experience missed racing days. Additionally, the fourth quarter is the weakest quarter for Global Draw due to reduced wagering during the holiday season. This adversely affects the amounts wagered and our corresponding service revenues. Wagering equipment sales and software license revenues usually reflect a limited number of large transactions, which may not recur on an annual basis. Consequently, revenues and operating results can vary substantially from period to period as a result of the timing of revenue recognition for major equipment sales and software license revenue. In addition, instant ticket and prepaid phone card sales may vary depending on the season and timing of contract awards, changes in customer budgets, ticket inventory levels, lottery retail sales and general economic conditions. Our business could also be impacted by natural or man-made disasters such as Hurricane Katrina or the terrorist attack in New York on September 11, 2001. We have taken steps to have disaster recovery plans in place but there can be no assurance that such an event would not have a significant impact on our business. We are dependent on our suppliers and contract manufacturers, and any failure of these parties to meet our performance and quality standards or requirements could cause us to incur additional costs or lose customers. Our production of instant lottery tickets and prepaid phone cards, in particular, depends upon a continuous supply of raw materials, supplies, power and natural resources. Our operating results could be adversely affected by an interruption or cessation in the supply of these items or a serious quality assurance lapse. 31 We transmit certain wagering data and broadcast live racing events utilizing satellite transponders, generally pursuant to long-term contracts. The technical failure of any of these satellites would require us to obtain other communication services, including other satellite access. Although we maintain insurance and, in some cases, employ backup systems to limit our exposure in the event of such a failure, we have no assurance of access to such other satellites or, if available, whether the use of such other satellites could be obtained on favorable terms or in a timely manner. While satellite failures are infrequent, the operation of satellites is outside of our control. In addition, our Global Draw business has signed a number of significant contracts whose performance depends on our third party suppliers delivering equipment on schedule for Global Draw to meet its contract commitments. Failure of the suppliers to meet their delivery commitments could result in Global Draw being in breach of and subsequently losing those contracts, which loss could have a material adverse affect on the revenue. We have foreign operations, which subjects us to additional risks. Our business in foreign markets subjects us to risks customarily associated with such operations, including: · foreign withholding taxes on our subsidiaries’ earnings that could reduce cash flow available to meet our required debt service and our other obligations; · the complexity of foreign laws, regulations and markets; · the impact of foreign labor laws and disputes; · other economic, tax and regulatory policies of local governments; and · the ability to attract and retain key personnel in foreign jurisdictions. Our consolidated financial results are significantly affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Foreign currency exchange rate exposures arise from current transactions and anticipated transactions denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars and from the translation of foreign currency balance sheet accounts into U.S. dollar-denominated balance sheet accounts. We are exposed to currency exchange rate fluctuations because a significant portion of our revenues is denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, particularly the British pound sterling and the Euro. Exchange rate fluctuations have in the past adversely affected our operating results and cash flows and may continue to adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows and the value of our assets outside the United States. There can be no assurance that we will be able to operate successfully in any foreign market. Certain holders of our common stock exert significant influence over the Company and make decisions with which other stockholders may disagree. In August 2004, MacAndrews & Forbes Holdings Inc. was issued approximately 25% of our outstanding common stock in connection with its conversion of our then outstanding Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. Such holder is entitled to appoint up to four of the ten members of our Board of Directors under a stockholders’ agreement with us, as supplemented, which we originally entered into with holders of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, and certain actions of the Company require the approval of such holder. As a result, this holder has the ability to exert significant influence over our business and may make decisions with which other stockholders may disagree, including, among other things, to delay, discourage or prevent a change of control of the Company or a potential merger, consolidation, tender offer, takeover or other business combination. 32 If certain of our key personnel leave us, our business will be significantly adversely affected. We depend on the continued performance of A. Lorne Weil, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and the members of our senior management team. Mr. Weil has extensive experience in the lottery and pari-mutuel businesses and has contributed significantly to the growth of our business. If we lose the services of Mr. Weil or any of our other senior officers and cannot find suitable replacements for such persons in a timely manner, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Mr. Weil has an employment contract with us through 2009. We could incur costs in the event of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws. Our operations and real properties are subject to U.S. and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to air emissions, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, and the cleanup of contaminated sites. We could incur costs, including cleanup costs, fines or penalties, and third-party claims as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws. Some of our operations require environmental permits and controls to prevent or reduce environmental pollution, and these permits are subject to review, renewal and modification by issuing authorities. We believe that our operations are currently in substantial compliance with all environmental laws, regulations and permits and have not historically incurred material costs for noncompliance with, or liabilities under, these requirements. Failure to perform under our lottery contracts may result in litigation, substantial monetary liquidated damages, as well as contract termination. Our business subjects us to contract penalties and risks of litigation, including due to potential allegations that we have not fully performed under our contracts or that goods or services we supply are defective in some respect. Litigation is pending in Colombia arising out of the termination of certain Colombian lottery contracts in 1993. An agency of the Colombian government has asserted claims against certain parties, including our subsidiary Scientific Games International, Inc., or SGI, which owned a minority interest in the former operator of the Colombian national lottery. The claims are for, among other things, contract penalties, interest and the costs of a bond issued by a Colombian surety. See “Item 3—Legal Proceedings” for additional information regarding this litigation. Although we believe that any potential losses arising from this litigation will not result in a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations, we cannot predict the final outcome, and there can be no assurance that this litigation might not be finally resolved adversely to us or result in material liability. In addition, our lottery contracts typically permit a lottery authority to terminate the contract at any time for material failure to perform, other specified reasons and, in many cases, for no reason at all. Lottery contracts to which we are a party also frequently contain exacting implementation schedules and performance requirements and the failure to meet these schedules and requirements may result in substantial monetary liquidated damages, as well as possible contract termination. We are also required by certain of our lottery customers to provide surety, or performance, bonds. We have paid or incurred liquidated damages under our lottery contracts and material amounts of liquidated damages could be imposed on us in the future, which could, if imposed, have a material adverse effect on our business. Labor disputes may have an adverse effect on our pari-mutuel operations. Though we have increasingly automated our pari-mutuel field operations and created two hub centers, we have union employees in our pari-mutuel field operations in the United States and Canada. We collectively bargain with the labor unions that represent these employees. The current collective bargaining agreement representing the majority of our union employees in the United States expires October 20, 33 2009. Another collective bargaining agreement relating to our Canadian racing operations has been extended through October 20, 2009. Notwithstanding these contracts, if we were to experience a union strike or work stoppage, it would be difficult to find sufficient replacement employees with the proper skills. There can be no assurance that we will not encounter any conflicts or strikes with the labor union, which could have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations, could cause us to lose customers or could cause our customers’ operations to be affected and might have permanent effects on our business. We have a significant amount of indebtedness and failure to generate sufficient cash as our debt comes due or to renew credit lines prior to expiration may adversely affect our business. As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately $916 million of debt outstanding, consisting of convertible senior subordinated debentures, senior subordinated notes and a senior secured credit facility. We expect that existing cash, cash equivalents, short term investments, cash provided from operations and our bank credit facilities will be sufficient to meet ongoing cash requirements. However, failure to generate adequate cash as our debt becomes due or to renew credit lines prior to their expiration may adversely affect our business. The price of our common stock may be volatile. Our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as, variations in operating results, actions by various regulatory agencies, litigation, market perceptions of our financial reporting, financial estimates and recommendation by securities analysts, rating agency reports, performance of other companies that investors or security analysts deem comparable to us, news reports relating to our business, our markets or general market conditions. 34 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF MATTERS No disclosure required pursuant to this Item. 35 ITEM 