Item 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following information with the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this annual report on Form 10-K. We operate in highly competitive industries and our success depends on our ability to effectively compete with numerous domestic and foreign lottery and pari-mutuel businesses. The instant ticket and online lottery businesses are highly competitive. We face competition from a number of domestic and foreign instant ticket manufacturers, online lottery system providers and other competitors, some of which have substantially greater financial resources than we do. We continue to operate in a period of intense price-based competition. The award of contracts by state officials is influenced by factors including price, the ability to optimize lottery revenues through game design, 29 technical capability, marketing capability and applications, the quality, dependability and upgrade capability of the network, production capacity, the security and integrity of a vendor’s production operations, the experience, financial condition and reputation of a vendor and the satisfaction of other requirements and qualifications that lottery authorities may impose. Contract awards by lottery authorities are sometimes challenged by unsuccessful bidders, which can result in protracted legal proceedings that can result in delayed implementation or cancellation of the award. Any future success of our lottery business will also depend, in part, on the success of the lottery industry in attracting and retaining players in the face of increased competition for these players’ entertainment dollars, as well as our own success in developing innovative products and systems to achieve this goal. Our failure to achieve this goal could reduce revenues from our lottery operations. The market for pari-mutuel wagering services is also highly competitive. We compete primarily on the basis of the design, performance, reliability and pricing of our products, as well as customer service. Our pari-mutuel customers face significant competition from other operators in the pari-mutuel business, other gaming venues such as casinos and state-sponsored lotteries and other forms of legal and illegal gaming. The continuing popularity of horse racing is important to the operating results of our pari-mutuel business. Competition from sporting events and other forms of entertainment, and casinos, sports wagering services and other non-racetrack gaming operators, may reduce the attendance and amounts wagered at our customers’ horse racing events, which could reduce our revenues. While we have exclusive licenses for our OTB operations in the Netherlands and, subject to our compliance with certain licensing requirements, the right to operate in perpetuity substantially all off-track pari-mutuel wagering in Connecticut, our revenues may be adversely affected by competition for the consumer’s wagering and entertainment dollar. Our venue management business competes with other pari-mutuel operations as well as other forms of gaming and other entertainment. Competition for wagers comes from casinos, racetracks, lotteries and other forms of legal and illegal gambling. Other gaming competitors operate in our licensed markets and in surrounding areas and compete for our customers, and additional competitors could be licensed, or existing regulations could be changed, so as to divert wagering activity from our OTB operations. The market for prepaid phone cards is highly fragmented. Competition comes from other instant lottery ticket printers utilizing similar lottery security and printing technologies, as well as alternative printing and non-printing technologies. Our telecommunications products operations compete with other printing companies on the basis of price, availability, product features and product security. There is competition within our class of products and other technologies to provide the desired functionality. There are alternative technologies, such as smart cards, with which our products compete. Moreover, the cellular telephone industry is undergoing significant growth and rapid technology changes such that other technologies, including electronic commerce, could impact our growth opportunities and our customer relationships. Further, increasing price competition in the prepaid phone card business may continue to negatively affect our operating margins. Our business is subject to evolving technology. The markets for all of our products and services are affected by changing technology, new legislation and evolving industry standards. Our ability to anticipate or respond to such changes and to develop and introduce new and enhanced products and services on a timely basis will be a significant factor in our ability to expand, remain competitive, attract new customers and retain existing contracts. We can give you no assurance that we will achieve the necessary technological advances, have the financial resources, introduce new products or services on a timely basis or otherwise have the ability to compete effectively in the markets we serve. 30 We are heavily dependent on our ability to renew our long-term contracts with our customers in the lottery and pari-mutuel businesses, and we could lose substantial revenue if we are unable to renew certain of our contracts. Generally, our lottery contracts are for initial terms of one to seven years, with optional renewal periods. Upon the expiration of a lottery contract, including any extensions thereof, lottery authorities may award new contracts through a competitive bidding process. Contracts representing a substantial majority of our annual revenues from lottery contracts are scheduled to expire or reach optional extension dates during the next three years. Our lottery contracts typically permit a lottery authority to terminate the contract at any time for material failure to perform, other specified reasons and, in many cases, for no reason at all, without penalty. In addition, lottery contracts to which we are a party frequently contain exacting implementation schedules and performance requirements. Failure to meet these schedules and requirements may result in substantial monetary liquidated damages, as well as possible contract termination. We are also required by certain of our lottery customers to provide surety, or performance, bonds. We cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to obtain performance bonds on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our inability to provide such bonds would materially and adversely affect our ability to renew existing, or obtain new, lottery contracts. Our contracts for the provision of pari-mutuel wagering services are typically for initial terms of five years. Contracts accounting for a majority of our current annual pari-mutuel revenues are scheduled to expire during the next three years. There can be no assurance that our current lottery or pari-mutuel contracts will be extended or that we will be awarded new lottery or pari-mutuel contracts as a result of competitive bidding processes in the future. The termination, expiration or failure to renew one or more of our contracts could cause us to lose substantial revenue. Our ability to bid on new online lottery and pari-mutuel contracts is dependent upon our ability to fund required up-front capital expenditures through our cash from operations or through financings. Our online lottery and pari-mutuel contracts generally require significant up-front capital expenditures for terminal assembly, software customization and implementation, systems and equipment installation and telecommunications configuration. Historically we have funded these up-front costs through cash flows generated from operations, available cash on hand and borrowings under our credit facilities. Our ability to continue to procure new contracts will depend on, among other things, our then present liquidity levels or our ability to obtain additional financing at commercially acceptable terms to finance the initial up-front costs. If we do not have adequate liquidity or are unable to obtain financing for these up-front costs on favorable terms or at all, we may not be able to bid on certain contracts, which could restrict our ability to grow and have a material adverse effect on our future profitability. Our business depends on the protection of our intellectual property and proprietary information. We believe that our success depends, in part, on protecting our intellectual property in the United States and in foreign countries. Our intellectual property includes certain patents and trademarks relating to our instant ticket games and wagering systems, as well as proprietary or confidential information that is not subject to patent or similar protection. Our intellectual property protects the integrity of our games, systems, products and services, which is a core value of the industries in which we operate. For example, our intellectual property is designed to ensure the security of the printing of our instant lottery tickets and prepaid phone cards and provide simple and secure validation of our lottery tickets. Competitors may independently develop similar or superior products, software, systems or business models. In cases where 31 our intellectual property is not protected by an enforceable patent, such independent development may result in a significant diminution in the value of our intellectual property. We cannot assure you that we will be able to protect our intellectual property. We enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, vendors, consultants, and, to the extent legally permissible, our customers, and generally control access to, and the distribution of, our game designs, systems and other software documentation and other proprietary information, as well as the designs, systems and other software documentation and other information we license from others. Despite our efforts to protect these proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may try to copy our gaming products, business models or systems, use certain of our confidential information to develop competing products, or develop independently or otherwise obtain and use our gaming products or technology, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Policing unauthorized use of our technology is difficult and expensive, particularly because of the global nature of our operations. The laws of other countries may not adequately protect our intellectual property. We cannot assure you that our business activities, games, products and systems will not infringe upon the proprietary rights of others, or that other parties will not assert infringement claims against us. Any such claim and any resulting litigation, should it occur, could subject us to significant liability for damages and could result in invalidation of our proprietary rights, distract management, and/or require us to enter into costly and burdensome royalty and licensing agreements. Such royalty and licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or may not be available at all. In the future, we may also need to file lawsuits to defend the validity of our intellectual property rights and trade secrets, or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Such litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. We rely on products and technologies that we license from third parties. We cannot assure you that these third-party licenses, or the support for such licenses, will continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. Our business competes on the basis of the security of our systems and products. We believe that our success depends, in part, on providing secure products and systems to our vendors and customers. Attempts to penetrate security measures may come from various combinations of customers, retailers, vendors, employees and others. We constantly assess the adequacy of our security systems to protect against any material loss to any of our customers. In our lottery business, we employ numerous security safeguards, including bar coding and providing additional layers of protection in our instant tickets. We also incorporate this security technology in our prepaid phone cards. We have effected security measures in the areas of ticket specifications, production, packaging, delivery, distribution and accounting. We also incorporate computer function safeguards, including secure ticket data, control number encryption, winner file data, and ticket stock control, in our data processing and in the computer operations phase. In addition, we also retain a major independent registered public accounting firm to perform agreed upon security procedures for each game produced before it is sent to the customer. As the incidence and severity of publicly reported cases of physical and computer crime continue, major lotteries periodically reassess key security questions concerning the vulnerability of lottery games. Although we have not uncovered any practical, economically feasible way to breach the security of our instant tickets or online lottery games that could result in a material loss to any of our customers, we cannot assure you that security breaches will not occur. 32 In our pari-mutuel business, we and the other pari-mutuel industry totalizator companies agreed to industry-wide security improvements, including the installation of software necessary to scan all wagering pools in connection with multi-race wagers after each race of a multi-race wager. We also engaged Kroll Inc., a leading worldwide risk mitigation and security company, to conduct a separate review of our physical security, operational controls, hiring practices and internal compliance. Kroll made recommendations to further enhance our security and we have implemented those recommendations. In addition, we have begun the deployment of a new control system to operate every one of our totalizator systems. This independent system runs in parallel with our computers, records data in real time and allows for a review by a third party of all data against the live system. Although we believe that the foregoing actions will provide sufficient security for our wagering systems, there can be no assurance that our business might not be affected by a security breach. Any such security breach could have a material adverse impact on our business. The lottery and pari-mutuel industries are subject to strict government regulations that may limit our existing operations and have a negative impact on our ability to grow. In the United States and many other countries, lotteries, pari-mutuel wagering and other forms of wagering must be expressly authorized by law. Once authorized, such activities are subject to extensive and evolving governmental regulation. Moreover, such gaming regulatory requirements vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Therefore, we are subject to a wide range of complex gaming laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we are licensed. Most jurisdictions require that we be licensed, that our key personnel and certain of our security holders be found suitable or be licensed, and that our products be reviewed and approved before placement. If a license, approval or finding of suitability is required by a regulatory authority and we fail to seek or do not receive the necessary approval, license or finding of suitability, then we may be prohibited from distributing our products for use in the respective jurisdiction. Furthermore, most jurisdictions have ongoing reporting requirements for certain transactions and are concerned with our accounting practices, internal controls, business relationships, and the fair operation of our products. The regulatory environment in any particular jurisdiction may change in the future, and any such change could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Moreover, we can give you no assurance that the operation of lotteries, pari-mutuel wagering facilities, video gaming industry machines, Internet gaming or other forms of lottery or wagering systems will be approved by additional jurisdictions or that those jurisdictions in which these lottery and wagering activities are currently permitted will continue to permit such activities. We are required to obtain and maintain licenses from various state and local jurisdictions in order to operate certain aspects of our pari-mutuel business and we are subject to extensive background investigations and suitability standards in our lottery business. We also will become subject to regulation in any other jurisdiction where our customers operate in the future. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain new licenses or renew any of our licenses, and the loss, denial or non-renewal of any of our licenses could have a material adverse effect on our business. Lottery authorities generally conduct background investigations of the winning vendor and its employees prior to and after the award of a lottery contract. Generally, regulatory authorities have broad discretion when granting, renewing or revoking these approvals and licenses. Lottery authorities with which we do business may require the removal of any of our employees deemed to be unsuitable and are generally empowered to disqualify us from receiving a lottery contract or operating a lottery system as a result of any such investigation. Our failure, or the failure of any of our key personnel, systems or machines, in obtaining or retaining a required license or approval in one jurisdiction could negatively impact our ability (or the ability of any of our key personnel, systems or gaming machines) to obtain or retain required licenses and approvals in other jurisdictions. The failure to obtain or retain a required license or approval in any jurisdiction would decrease the geographic areas 33 where we may operate and generate revenues, decrease our share in the gaming marketplace and put us at a disadvantage compared with our competitors. Some jurisdictions also require extensive personal and financial disclosure and background checks from persons and entities beneficially owning a specified percentage (typically 5% or more) of our equity securities. The failure of these beneficial owners to submit to such background checks and provide required disclosure could jeopardize the award of a lottery contract to us or provide grounds for termination of an existing lottery contract. These licensing procedures and background investigations also may inhibit potential investors from becoming significant shareholders. Additional restrictions are often imposed by international jurisdictions in which we market our lottery systems on foreign corporations, such as us, seeking to do business in such jurisdictions. Similar restrictions and considerations are also applicable to our pari-mutuel business. There also have been and may continue to be investigations of various types conducted by governmental authorities into possible improprieties and wrong-doing in connection with efforts to obtain and/or the awarding of lottery contracts and related matters. In early November 2005, we were advised that the North Carolina Secretary of State had referred to the North Carolina Attorney General for investigation alleged misdemeanor violations of the North Carolina Lobbying Act by one of our subsidiaries and one of its now former employees for alleged failure to timely register as a lobbyist. We are cooperating with the investigation and while no assurance can be given, we believe that the inquiry will conclude that we did not engage in any wrongdoing. Because our reputation for integrity is an important factor in our business dealings with lottery and other governmental agencies, a governmental allegation or a finding of improper conduct on our part or attributable to us in any manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, including our ability to retain existing contracts or to obtain new or renewal contracts. In addition, any adverse publicity resulting from such an investigation could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and business. Currently, account wagering operations, through which pari-mutuel customers place wagers by phone or via the Internet on thoroughbred, harness or greyhound racing, may be conducted only from certain jurisdictions and only through licensed wagering operators in certain jurisdictions. While we believe that the activities of our pari-mutuel businesses comply with all applicable laws, law enforcement authorities in certain jurisdictions have opposed the expansion of wagering via telephone and the Internet and state regulators have expressed concerns to us regarding such wagering by their citizens through our account wagering systems and the racetracks serviced by our pari-mutuel wagering systems. We cannot assure you that our activities or the activities of our customers will not become the subject of law enforcement proceedings or that any such proceedings would not have a material adverse impact on us or our business plans. We have developed and implemented an internal compliance program in an effort to ensure that we comply with legal requirements imposed in connection with our wagering-related activities, as well as legal requirements generally applicable to all publicly traded corporations. The compliance program is run on a day-to-day basis with two full-time compliance officers and is overseen by the Compliance Committee authorized by our board of directors. While we are firmly committed to full compliance with all applicable laws, there can be no assurance that such steps will prevent the violation of one or more laws or regulations, or that a violation by us or an employee will not result in the imposition of a monetary fine or suspension or revocation of one or more of our licenses. Gaming opponents persist in their efforts to curtail the expansion of legalized gaming, which, if successful, could limit our existing operations. Legalized gaming is subject to opposition from gaming opponents. We can give you no assurance that this opposition will not succeed in preventing the legalization of gaming in jurisdictions where these 34 activities are presently prohibited or prohibiting or limiting the expansion of gaming where it is currently permitted, in either case to the detriment of our business, financial condition, results and prospects. Our ability to complete future acquisitions of gaming and related businesses successfully could limit our future growth. Part of our corporate strategy is to continue to pursue expansion and acquisition opportunities in gaming and related businesses, such as EssNet AB or The Global Draw LTD, and we could face significant challenges in managing and integrating the expanded or combined operations including acquired assets, operations and personnel. We cannot assure you that acquisition opportunities will be available on acceptable terms or at all or that we will be able to obtain necessary financing or regulatory approvals to complete such potential acquisitions. Our ability to succeed in implementing our strategy will depend to some degree upon the ability of our management to identify, complete and successfully integrate commercially viable acquisitions. Acquisition transactions may disrupt our ongoing business and distract management from other responsibilities. Any future acquisition transactions involving the use of company stock have the potential of dilution to our existing shareholders and earnings per share. Our revenues fluctuate due to seasonal, weather and other variations and you should not rely upon our periodic operating results as indications of future performance. Our pari-mutuel service revenues are subject to seasonal and weather variations. The first and fourth quarters of the calendar year traditionally comprise the weakest period for our pari-mutuel wagering service revenue. As a result of inclement weather during the winter months, a number of racetracks do not operate and those that do operate often experience missed racing days. This adversely affects the amounts wagered and our corresponding service revenues. Wagering equipment sales and software license revenues usually reflect a limited number of large transactions, which may not recur on an annual basis. Consequently, revenues and operating results can vary substantially from period to period as a result of the timing of revenue recognition for major equipment sales and software license revenue. In addition, instant ticket and prepaid phone card sales may vary depending on the season and timing of contract awards, changes in customer budgets, ticket inventory levels, lottery retail sales and general economic conditions. We are dependent on suppliers and contract manufacturers, and any failure of these parties to meet our performance and quality standards or requirements could cause us to incur additional costs or lose customers. Our production of instant lottery tickets and prepaid phone cards, in particular, depends upon a continuous supply of raw materials, supplies, power and natural resources. Our operating results could be adversely affected by an interruption or cessation in the supply of these items. We simulcast live racing events by transmitting audio and/or video signals from one facility to a satellite for reception by wagering locations across the country. Our access to satellite service is provided pursuant to long-term contracts. The technical failure of the satellite through which we transmit substantially all of our racing events would require us to obtain other satellite access. We have no assurance of access to such other satellites, or, if available, whether the use of such other satellites could be obtained on favorable terms or in a timely manner. While satellite failures are infrequent, the operation of the satellite is outside of our control. 35 We have foreign operations, which subjects us to additional risks. Our business in foreign markets subjects us to risks customarily associated with such operations, including: · foreign withholding taxes on our subsidiaries’ earnings that could reduce cash flow available to meet our required debt service and our other obligations; · the complexity of foreign laws, regulations and markets; · the impact of foreign labor laws and disputes; · other economic, tax and regulatory policies of local governments; and · the ability to attract and retain key personnel in foreign jurisdictions. Our consolidated financial results are significantly affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Foreign currency exchange rate exposures arise from current transactions and anticipated transactions denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars and from the translation of foreign currency balance sheet accounts into U.S. dollar-denominated balance sheet accounts. We are exposed to currency exchange rate fluctuations because a significant portion of our revenues is denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, particularly the British pound sterling and the Euro. Exchange rate fluctuations have in the past adversely affected our operating results and cash flows and may continue to adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows and the value of our assets outside the United States. We cannot assure you that we will be able to operate successfully in any foreign market. Certain holders of our common stock exert significant influence over the Company and make decisions with which other stockholders may disagree. In August 2004, MacAndrews & Forbes Holdings Inc. was issued approximately 25% of our outstanding common stock in connection with its conversion of our then outstanding Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. Such holder is entitled to appoint up to four of the ten members of our board of directors under a stockholders’ agreement with us, as supplemented, which we originally entered into with holders of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, and certain actions of the Company require the approval of such holder. As a result, this holder has the ability to exert significant influence over our business and may make decisions with which other stockholders may disagree, including, among other things, to delay, discourage or prevent a change of control of the Company or a potential merger, consolidation, tender offer, takeover or other business combination. If certain of our key personnel leave us, our business will be significantly adversely affected. We depend on the continued performance of A. Lorne Weil, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and the members of our senior management team. Mr. Weil has extensive experience in the lottery and pari-mutuel businesses and has contributed significantly to the growth of our business. If we lose the services of Mr. Weil or any of our other senior officers and cannot find suitable replacements for such persons in a timely manner, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. We could incur costs in the event of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws. Our operations and real properties are subject to U.S. and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to air emissions, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, and the cleanup of contaminated sites. We could incur costs, including cleanup costs, fines or penalties, and third-party claims as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental 36 laws. Some of our operations require environmental permits and controls to prevent or reduce environmental pollution, and these permits are subject to review, renewal and modification by issuing authorities. We believe that our operations are currently in substantial compliance with all environmental laws, regulations and permits and have not historically incurred material costs for noncompliance with, or liabilities under, these requirements. Failure to perform under our lottery contracts may result in substantial monetary liquidated damages, as well as contract termination. Our business subjects us to certain risks of litigation, including potential allegations that we have not fully performed under our contracts or that goods or services we supply are defective in some respect. Litigation is pending in Colombia arising out of the termination of certain Colombian lottery contracts in 1993. An agency of the Colombian government has asserted claims against certain parties, including our subsidiary Scientific Games International, Inc., or SGI, which owned a minority interest in the former operator of the Colombian national lottery. The claims are for, among other things, contract penalties, interest and the costs of a bond issued by a Colombian surety. SGI has been advised by Colombian counsel that it has various defenses on the merits as well as procedural defenses. See “Legal Proceedings” for additional information regarding this litigation. Although we believe that any potential losses arising from this litigation will not result in a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations, we cannot predict the final outcome, and there can be no assurance that this litigation might not be finally resolved adversely to us or result in material liability. Failure to maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and the market value of our securities. Effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports, our reputation and operating results may be harmed. We identified that a material weakness in the design of internal controls over financial reporting existed at December 31, 2004 because we had insufficient personnel resources and technical accounting expertise within the accounting function to resolve certain non-routine or complex accounting matters, such as the treatment of our 20% minority equity interest in an Italian consortium. In 2004, we had incorrectly accounted for our interest in that Italian consortium (which was formed in 2003 and began operations in mid- 2004). An adjustment for this matter along with certain other adjustments related to non-routine or complex accounting matters, which in the aggregate were material to the financial statements, were necessary to fairly present the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2004 in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. This deficiency was identified during the year end audit process and represented a material weakness in the design of our internal controls. We have since remediated this weakness. We changed the design of internal controls over non-routine and complex accounting matters through the re-assignment of responsibilities for certain accounting personnel, and the formation of a committee which is now responsible for reviewing all non-routine and complex accounting matters and preparing formal reports on their conclusions. We also added additional accounting personnel during 2005 and are continuing to evaluate additional controls and procedures which we can implement. The cost of this remediation effort was not material to our financial statements. We cannot be certain that these measures, and any other steps we may take, will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operations or results or cause us to not to meet our reporting obligations. 37 or materially and adversely impact our business, our financial condition and the market value of our securities. Labor disputes may have an adverse effect on our pari-mutuel operations. As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately 340 union employees in our pari-mutuel operations. We collectively bargain with the labor unions that represent these employees. The current collective bargaining agreement representing approximately 85% of our union employees expires October 20, 2009. Another collective bargaining agreement relating to our Canadian racing operations is currently under negotiations, having expired October 20, 2005. Failure to reach an agreement with any of the unions could result in strike or labor actions that could disrupt our and our customers operations. If we were to experience a strike or work stoppage, it would be difficult to find sufficient replacement employees with the proper skills. We cannot assure that we will reach a collective bargaining agreement or that we will not encounter any conflicts or strikes with the labor union. A labor dispute could have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations, could cause us to lose customers or could cause our customers’ operations to be affected and might have permanent effects on our business. We have a significant amount of indebtedness and failure to generate sufficient cash as our debt comes due or to renew credit lines prior to expiration may adversely affect our business. As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately $580 million of debt outstanding, consisting of convertible senior subordinated debentures, senior subordinated notes and a senior secured credit facility. We expect that existing cash, cash equivalents, short term investments, cash provided from operations and our bank credit facilities will be sufficient to meet ongoing cash requirements. However, failure to generate adequate cash as our debt becomes due or to renew credit lines prior to their expiration may adversely affect our business. The price of our common stock may be volatile. Our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as, variations in operating results, actions by various regulatory agencies, litigation, market perceptions of our financial reporting, financial estimates and recommendation by securities analysts, rating agency reports, performance of other companies that investors or security analysts deem comparable to us, news reports relating to our business, our markets or general market conditions. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS No disclosure required pursuant to this Item. 38 