Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Energy Partners, Ltd. Even though we have successfully entered into the Credit Facility, issued the PIK Notes and emerged from our Chapter 11 reorganization, we will continue to have substantial capital needs that we may not be able to satisfy in the future. Like other oil and natural gas exploration and production companies, our business has substantial capital requirements. In order to provide us with access to capital immediately following our emergence from our Chapter 11 reorganization, we entered into the Credit Facility and issued the PIK Notes, and we intend to finance our capital expenditures primarily through cash flow from operations. Because our cash flows are subject to a range of economic, competitive and business risks, we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to meet our debt payment obligations and to fund these capital requirements. Additionally, the amounts available to us under the Credit Facility may not be sufficient for our capital requirements not funded by initial cash flows, and we may not be able to access additional financing resources for a variety of reasons, including restrictive covenants in the Credit Facility and the general lack of available capital due to the condition of the global credit markets. If we are unable to make scheduled payments on the Credit Facility, or if our financing requirements are not met by the Credit Facility and we are unable to access sources of additional financing on terms we find acceptable, our business, operations, financial condition and cash flows will be negatively impacted. The restrictive covenants under our Credit Facility and the PIK Notes may limit our ability to take certain actions. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in the acceleration of our outstanding indebtedness. Our Credit Facility and the indenture covering the PIK Notes contain various restrictive covenants that limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to take certain actions, including paying dividends, incurring indebtedness and selling or otherwise disposing of assets (including the trade or exchange of oil and natural gas properties). Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events outside of our control, including prevailing economic and financial conditions. If we breach any of these covenants, a default could occur that, if not waived, would entitle certain of our debt holders to declare all amounts then outstanding to be immediately due and payable. If this indebtedness is accelerated, we may not be able to repay the debt or obtain new financing on terms acceptable to us to refinance our debt. 19 Table of Contents The PIK Notes accrue interest at a relatively high interest rate and there is no assurance we will be able to discharge this debt prior to its maturity date. The PIK Notes accrue interest at a rate of 20% per year, which is payable in kind on a semi-annual basis by issuing additional notes to our noteholders until the first interest payment date that occurs 91 days after the termination of the Credit Facility. Thereafter, interest is payable quarterly in cash. While we intend to seek to refinance the PIK Notes prior to their maturity date, there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain new financing on terms acceptable to us. Our actual financial results may vary significantly from the projections filed with the Bankruptcy Court. In connection with the Plan, we were required to prepare projected financial information to demonstrate to the Bankruptcy Court the feasibility of the Plan and our ability to continue operations upon emergence from our Chapter 11 reorganization. We filed projected financial information with the Bankruptcy Court and furnished it to the SEC as part of the disclosure statement approved by the Bankruptcy Court. Our projections reflected numerous assumptions concerning anticipated future performance and prevailing and anticipated market and economic conditions that were and continue to be beyond our control and that may not materialize. Projections are inherently subject to uncertainties and to a wide variety of significant business, economic and competitive risks. Our actual results will vary from those contemplated by the projections for a variety of reasons. These projections were limited by the information available to us as of the date of the preparation of the projections. Therefore, variations from the projections may be material. The projections filed with the Bankruptcy Court have not been incorporated by reference into this Annual Report and neither those projections nor any version of the disclosure statement should be considered or relied on in connection with the purchase of our common stock. Because our consolidated financial statements reflect fresh-start accounting adjustments made upon emergence from our Chapter 11 reorganization and because of the effects of the transactions that became effective pursuant to the Plan, financial information in our current and future financial statements will not be comparable to our financial information from prior periods. In connection with our Chapter 11 reorganization, we adopted fresh-start accounting effective on September 30, 2009 in accordance with ASC Topic 852, “Reorganizations.” Our adoption of fresh-start accounting resulted in our becoming a new entity for financial reporting purposes. As required by fresh-start accounting, our assets and liabilities have been adjusted to reflect fair value. In addition to fresh-start accounting, our financial statements reflect the effects of all of the transactions implemented by the Plan. Accordingly, our financial statements for periods prior to September 30, 2009 are not comparable with our financial statements for periods on or after September 30, 2009. Furthermore, the estimates and assumptions used to implement fresh-start accounting are inherently subject to significant uncertainties and contingencies beyond our control. Accordingly, we cannot provide assurance that the estimates, assumptions, and values reflected in our valuations will be realized, and our actual results could vary materially. Our credit ratings were withdrawn and failure to regain and improve our credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our business. In 2009, Moody’s Investors Service downgraded each of our Corporate Family Rating and Probability of Default Rating to “default” levels or equivalent and withdrew its ratings due to our Chapter 11 reorganization. The decline and withdrawal of our credit ratings reflected concerns over our financial strength. Our current credit ratings status reduces our access to the debt markets and may unfavorably impact our overall cost of borrowing. Recent adverse publicity about us, including publicity regarding our Chapter 11 reorganization, may harm our ability to compete in a highly competitive environment. Adverse publicity regarding our financial condition and our Chapter 11 reorganization, may adversely affect our ability to attract new customers and to maintain favorable relationships with existing customers, suppliers and partners. For example, it may be more challenging for us to engage in risk sharing transactions, and some of 20 Table of Contents our suppliers may require cash payments rather than extending credit, which adversely affects our liquidity. Furthermore, our recent Chapter 11 reorganization may adversely affect our ability to negotiate favorable terms from our operating partners and other parties and to attract and retain employees, each of which could in turn adversely affect our financial performance. Our asset carrying values have been impaired based, in part, on oil and natural gas prices as of December 31, 2008 and March 31, 2009 and they may be further impaired if oil and gas prices decline from prices in effect as of those dates or those used to estimate the fair values of our oil and gas properties for fresh-start accounting as of September 30, 2009. The substantial decline in oil and gas prices and reduced capital spending on certain fields based on this lower price environment in 2008 and continuing in 2009 impacted the estimated net cash flows from our oil and natural gas reserves, which estimates were used to determine impairments of our oil and natural gas properties. As a result of the decline in oil and gas prices, we revised our estimated reserves downward and significantly reduced our estimated future cash flows. Based in part on our 2008 year-end estimates of proved reserves, we recorded a non-cash pre-tax impairment charge of $108.6 million in the fourth quarter of 2008. We recorded additional impairment charges totaling $8.5 million and $8.1 million in the periods from October 1, 2009 through December 31, 2009 and from January 1, 2009 through September 30, 2009, respectively. We applied fresh-start accounting as of September 30, 2009 and recorded our oil and gas properties at their respective estimated fair values as of that date. In some cases, the estimated fair values exceeded the net book values, in part, because of changes in estimated future selling prices of oil and gas as of September 30, 2009, as compared to prior periods. We may be required to recognize additional non-cash pre-tax impairment charges in future reporting periods if market prices for oil or natural gas continue to decline or based on other factors, including our ability to fund capital expenditures required to maintain our oil and natural gas reserves. Our current operations are concentrated in the Gulf of Mexico, and a significant part of the value of our production and reserves is concentrated in two geographic areas. Because of this concentration, any production problems or inaccuracies in reserve estimates related to these areas could have a material adverse effect on our business. Virtually all of our current operations are concentrated in the Gulf of Mexico region. We are more vulnerable to operational, regulatory and other risks associated with the Gulf of Mexico, including the risk of adverse weather conditions, than many of our competitors that are more geographically diversified because all or a substantial portion of our operations could experience the same condition at the same time. During 2009, 44% of our net daily production came from our Greater Bay Marchand area properties and approximately 44% of our proved reserves were located in the fields that comprise this area. In addition, 16% of our net daily production came from our East Bay field and approximately 39% of our proved reserves were located in this area. If the actual reserves associated with these two properties are less than our estimated reserves, such a reduction of reserves could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. During the 2008 hurricane season, our production was reduced by approximately 21%, on an annual basis, as a result of damage to third party pipelines caused by two hurricanes. The hurricane damage limited our ability to sell our production from certain properties for extended periods of time during the third and fourth quarters of 2008. If mechanical problems, storms or other events were to curtail a substantial portion of the production in these areas, such a curtailment could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may not regain exempt status from MMS regulations requiring bonds or other surety in support of our offshore decommissioning obligations. For offshore operations, a lessee must comply with MMS regulations governing, among other things, plugging and abandonment of wells and removal of facilities. The MMS generally requires that a lessee meet 21 Table of Contents certain financial criteria or else post bonds or other assurances that it can meet such decommissioning obligations. Shortly before we began the Chapter 11 reorganization process, the MMS ordered us to shut in the federal portion of our East Bay field as a result of our failure to comply with these bonding requirements. While we have considerably greater financial flexibility and an improved balance sheet as a result of our Chapter 11 reorganization, there is no assurance that we will be granted exempt status. If it is not granted, the costs associated with providing these bonds is substantial and, should we fail to provide these bonds, the MMS could again require us to shut in production from certain of our federal leases. The relatively steep decline curves generally associated with oil and gas properties located in the Gulf of Mexico and the Gulf Coast region subjects us to higher reserve replacement needs. Producing oil and natural gas reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. High initial production rates generally result in recovery of a relatively higher percentage of reserves from properties during the initial few years of production, often followed by a rapid decline in the rate of production. Because substantially all of our operations are concentrated in the Gulf of Mexico and because production from reservoirs in the Gulf of Mexico region generally declines more rapidly compared to reservoirs in many other producing regions of the world, our reserve replacement needs are relatively greater than those of producers with reserves outside the Gulf of Mexico region. As of December 31, 2009, our independent petroleum engineers estimate that, on average, 65% of our total proved reserves will be produced within five years. We may not be able to develop, exploit, find or acquire additional reserves to sustain our current production levels or to grow our production. In addition, we significantly reduced our capital expenditures in 2009 in order to conserve cash resources, which will likely negatively impact our ability to replace existing reserves that are being depleted by current production. Our initial budgeted capital expenditures for 2010 remain at levels significantly lower than our historical averages. There can be no assurance that we will be able to grow production at rates we have experienced in the past. Our future oil and natural gas reserves and production, results of operations and cash flows are highly dependent on our ability to efficiently develop and exploit our current reserves and economically find or acquire additional recoverable reserves. Our exploration, exploitation and production operations in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico area present unique operating risks. The deepwater Gulf of Mexico area is an area that has had relatively limited drilling activity due to risks associated with geological complexity, water depth and higher drilling and development costs, which could result in substantial cost overruns and/or uneconomic projects or wells, including: • an extended length of time between drilling and first production as compared to typical shallow to moderate-water depth projects; • drilling that requires specific types of rigs with significantly higher day rates and limited availability as compared to the rigs used in shallow water; • more costly consequences of mechanical failure because of the equipment required to operate at the water depths and adverse conditions found in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico area; • mechanical risks because the wellhead equipment is installed on the sea floor; • many reservoirs are sub-salt and are more difficult to detect with traditional seismic processing; and • larger installation equipment, sophisticated sea floor production handling equipment, expensive, state-of-the-art platforms and/or infrastructure investment. Because we have exploration, exploitation and production operations in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico area, we are exposed to these risks. Furthermore, because of the generally higher expense of drilling wells in the 22 Table of Contents deepwater Gulf of Mexico area, if such wells are economically unsuccessful, they may have a larger impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows than wells that we drill in shallow water. Although we are currently evaluating our deepwater portfolio and may monetize or trade assets in that portfolio, there is no assurance that we will be able to do so on terms acceptable to us. Properties we have acquired may not produce as projected, and we may not have fully identified liabilities associated with these properties or obtained adequate protection from sellers against liabilities. In the past, we acquired producing properties from third parties, and these acquisitions required us to assess many factors that are inherently inexact and may be inaccurate, including: • the amount of recoverable reserves and the rates at which those reserves will be produced; • future oil and natural gas prices; • estimates of operating costs; • estimates of future development costs; • estimates of the costs and timing of plugging, abandonment and other decommissioning activities; and • potential environmental and other liabilities. Our assessments may not have revealed all existing or potential problems with the properties or permitted us to become adequately familiar with the properties in order to evaluate fully their deficiencies and capabilities. In the course of our due diligence, we may not have inspected every well, platform or pipeline. Our inspections may not have identified structural and environmental problems, such as pipeline corrosion or groundwater contamination. We may not have obtained contractual indemnities from the seller for liabilities that it created. We may have assumed the risk of the physical condition of the properties in addition to the risk that the properties may not perform in accordance with our expectations. Periods of high cost or lack of availability of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oilfield services could adversely affect our ability to execute on a timely basis our exploration and development plans. Substantially all of our current operations are concentrated in the Gulf of Mexico region. Shortages and the high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or personnel that occur in this region from time to time could delay or adversely affect our exploration and development plans, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Periodically, as a result of increased drilling activity or a decrease in the supply of equipment, materials and services, we have experienced increases in associated costs, including those related to drilling rigs, equipment, supplies and personnel and the services and products of other vendors to the industry. Increased drilling activity in the Gulf of Mexico and in other offshore areas around the world also decreases the availability of offshore rigs in the Gulf of Mexico. As a result, costs may increase in the future and necessary equipment and services may not be available on terms acceptable to us. Loss of key management and failure to attract qualified management could negatively impact our operations. Successfully implementing our strategies will depend, in part, on our management team. The loss of members of our management team could have an adverse effect on our business. Our ability to pay dividends is restricted by covenants in our Credit Facility and the indenture related to the PIK Notes. The covenants in certain debt instruments to which we are a party, including the Credit Facility and the indenture related to the PIK Notes, place certain restrictions and conditions on our ability to pay dividends. Certain institutional investors may invest only in dividend-paying equity securities or may operate under other restrictions that may prohibit or limit their ability to invest in us. Any future cash dividends would depend on contractual limitations, future earnings, capital requirements, our financial condition and other factors determined by our board of directors. 23 Table of Contents Provisions in our organizational documents and under Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. The existence of some provisions in our organizational documents and under Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. The provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws that could delay or prevent an unsolicited change in control of our company include: • the Board’s ability to issue shares of preferred stock and determine the terms of the preferred stock without approval of common stockholders; and • a prohibition on the right of stockholders to call meetings and limitations on the right of stockholders to present proposals or make nominations at stockholder meetings. In addition, Delaware law imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. Our common stock is thinly traded and ownership is primarily concentrated in a few holders. Our stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange. However, as a result of our Chapter 11 reorganization, the majority of our common stock is concentrated in a few institutional stockholders and our trading volume is generally low. There has been a limited public market for our common stock and we cannot assure you that an active trading market for our stock will develop or, if one develops, will be maintained. The price of our common stock may be affected by a limited trading volume and may fluctuate significantly, and the absence of an active trading market may adversely affect our stockholders’ ability to sell our common stock in short time periods, or possibly at all. Our 2009 year-end estimates of oil and natural gas reserves are not directly comparable to our prior estimates because of new reporting rules, and our interpretations of the new rules may differ materially from future guidance or comments issued by the SEC. The year-end 2009 estimates of proved oil and natural gas reserves presented in this Annual Report have been prepared using new SEC disclosure rules that differ in a number of respects from prior rules. As a result of changes in the reporting rules, our reserve estimates beginning with year-end 2009 will not be directly comparable to our previously-reported reserves. The SEC has not reviewed our reserve estimates under the new rules and has released only limited interpretive guidance regarding reporting of reserve estimates under the new rules. Accordingly, while the estimates of our proved reserves at December 31, 2009 included in this Annual Report have been prepared based on what we and our independent reserve engineers believe to be reasonable interpretations of the new SEC rules, those estimates could differ materially from any estimates we might prepare applying more specific SEC interpretive guidance. Risks Relating to the Oil and Natural Gas Industry Exploring for and producing oil and natural gas are high-risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our future success will depend on the success of our exploration and production activities. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to numerous risks beyond our control, including the risk that drilling will not result in commercially viable oil or natural gas production. Our decisions to purchase, explore, develop or otherwise exploit prospects or properties will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. Our cost of drilling, completing and operating 24 Table of Contents wells is often uncertain before drilling commences. Overruns in planned expenditures are common risks that can make a particular project uneconomical. Further, many factors may curtail, delay or cancel drilling activity, including the following: • pressure or irregularities in geological formations; • shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment and qualified personnel; • equipment failures or accidents; • adverse weather conditions, such as hurricanes and tropical storms; • reductions in oil and natural gas prices; • title problems; • limitations in the market for oil and natural gas; and • cost of services to drill wells. Any continuing volatility in the financial and credit markets, or in oil and natural gas prices, may affect our ability to obtain funding or to obtain funding on acceptable terms. These factors may hinder or prevent us from meeting our future capital needs and/or continuing to meet our obligations and conduct our business. Global financial markets and economic conditions have recently been, and could continue to be, disrupted and volatile. The debt and equity capital markets have become exceedingly distressed. These issues, along with significant asset write-offs in the financial services sector, the re-pricing of credit risk and the continuing weak economic conditions, have made, and will likely continue to make, it difficult to obtain debt or equity capital funding. There can be no assurance that funding will be available to us if needed, and to the extent required, on acceptable terms. If funding is not available as needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to meet our obligations as they come due, implement our exploration and development plan, enhance our existing business, complete acquisitions or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities, or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our production, revenues, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. A substantial or extended decline in oil and natural gas prices may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and our ability to meet our debt obligations, operating cost requirements, capital expenditure requirements and other financial commitments. The price we receive for our oil and natural gas production heavily influences our revenue, profitability, financial condition, cash flow, access to capital and future rate of growth. Oil and natural gas are commodities and, as a result, their prices are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand. Historically, the markets for oil and natural gas have been volatile. While oil and natural gas prices have recently recovered from their low levels in 2009, there are different views about the strength of the economic recovery and future demand for oil and natural gas. Consequently, there is no assurance that prices will not fall again. The prices we receive for our production and the levels of our production depend on numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include: • changes in the global supply, demand and inventories of oil; • domestic natural gas supply, demand and inventories; • the actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries; • the price and quantity of foreign imports of oil; • the price and availability of liquefied natural gas imports; • political conditions, including embargoes, in or affecting other oil-producing countries; 25 Table of Contents • economic and energy infrastructure disruptions caused by actual or threatened acts of war, or terrorist activities, or national security measures deployed to protect the United States from such actual or threatened acts or activities; • economic stability of major oil and natural gas companies and the interdependence of oil and natural gas and energy trading companies; • the level of worldwide oil and natural gas exploration and production activity; • weather conditions, including energy infrastructure disruptions resulting from those conditions; • technological advances effecting energy consumption; and • the price and availability of alternative fuels. Oil and natural gas prices as of the date of this Annual Report permit us to maintain the minimal investment necessary to maintain our current production levels. However, if prices fall to their previous low levels, we may not be able to replace our reserves and our production may decline significantly. As a result, we could continue to experience a decline in our revenues and available capital, which will substantially decrease our capital expenditures, drilling activities and operations. We may incur substantial losses and be subject to substantial liability claims as a result of our oil and natural gas operations. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient or may not be available to cover some of these losses and claims. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured and underinsured events could materially and adversely effect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to all of the operating risks associated with drilling for and producing oil and natural gas, including the possibility of: • environmental hazards, such as uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, brine, well fluids, toxic gas or other pollution into the environment, including groundwater and shoreline contamination; • abnormally pressured formations; • mechanical difficulties; • fires and explosions; • personal injuries and death; and • natural disasters, especially hurricanes and tropical storms in the Gulf of Mexico region. Offshore operations are also subject to a variety of operating risks unique to the marine environment, such as capsizing, collisions and damage or loss from hurricanes, tropical storms or other adverse weather conditions. These conditions can cause substantial damage to facilities and interrupt production. Any of these risks could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations or result in substantial losses. We maintain insurance at levels that we believe are consistent with industry practices and our particular needs, but we are not fully insured against all risks. We may elect not to obtain insurance for certain risks or to limit levels of coverage if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks involved. For example, due to limited availability of insurance coverage at commercially acceptable rates, we no longer maintain business interruption insurance. In this regard, the cost of available coverage has increased significantly as a result of losses experienced by third party insurers in the 2005 and 2008 hurricane seasons in the Gulf of Mexico, in particular those resulting from Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005 and Gustav and Ike in 2008. We believe the cost of coverage will continue to increase and may become prohibitively expensive for smaller independent operators in the Gulf of Mexico. As a result, our coverage may be limited by higher deductibles on property damage and other types of insurance. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not 26 Table of Contents fully insurable. If a significant accident or other event occurs and it is not fully covered by insurance, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and could reduce or eliminate the funds available for exploration, exploitation and acquisitions or result in loss of equipment and properties. Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and estimated values of our reserves. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex, requiring interpretations of available technical data and many assumptions, including assumptions relating to economic factors. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves disclosed in this Annual Report. Estimates of oil and natural gas reserves are inherently imprecise. The preparation of our reserve estimates requires projections of production rates and timing of development expenditures, analysis of available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data, and assumptions about oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, drilling and operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves will vary from our estimates. The present value of future net revenues from our proved reserves and the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows referred to in this Annual Report should not be assumed to represent or approximate the current market value of our estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves are computed using prices based on the simple average of the closing price on the first day of each of the twelve months during the fiscal year and costs as of the date of the estimate held constant for the life of the reserves. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in our reserve estimates. If our estimates of the recoverable reserve volumes on a property are revised downward, if development costs exceed previous estimates or if commodity prices decrease, as discussed elsewhere in these risk factors, we may be required to record an impairment to our property and equipment, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Once recorded, an impairment of property and equipment may not be reversed at a later date. Our ability to obtain financing depends in part on our estimate of the proved oil and natural gas reserves for properties that will serve as collateral. If proved reserves on a property are revised downward, our ability to acquire adequate funding may be significantly reduced. If we are unable to replace the reserves that we have produced, our reserves and future revenues will decline. Our future success depends on our ability to find, develop, acquire and produce oil and natural gas reserves that are economically recoverable. Lower commodity prices and increased costs associated with exploration and production may lower the threshold of economic recoverability. Additionally, we substantially cut our capital expenditures in 2009 and our initially budgeted 2010 capital expenditures are significantly lower than our historical averages, which will likely negatively impact our ability to replace existing reserves produced. Without continued successful acquisition or exploration activities, our reserves and revenues will decline as a result of our current reserves being depleted by production. We may not be able to find or acquire additional reserves on an economic basis. Our business requires substantial capital investment and maintenance expenditures, and our capital resources may not be adequate to provide for all of our cash requirements. Our operations are capital intensive. Our ability to replace our oil and natural gas production and maintain our production levels and reserves requires extensive capital investment. Our business also requires substantial 27 Table of Contents expenditures for routine maintenance. We may not have access to the capital required to maintain our production levels and reserves. Impediments to transporting our products may limit our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay our production. Our ability to market our oil and natural gas production depends on a number of factors, including the proximity of our reserves to pipelines and terminal facilities, the availability and capacity of gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities owned and operated by third parties and the availability of satisfactory oil and natural gas transportation arrangements. These facilities and systems may be shut-in due to factors outside of our control. If any of these third party services and arrangements become partially or fully unavailable, or if we are unable to secure such services and arrangements on acceptable terms, our production could be limited or delayed and our revenues could be adversely affected. Our ability to collect payments from our partners depends on the partners’ creditworthiness. In operating our oil and natural gas properties, we typically incur costs on behalf of our partners in advance of billing and collecting our partners’ share of those costs. Some of our partners are highly leveraged and may become unable to pay us for their share of the operating costs. Further, a significant adverse change in the financial and/or credit position of a partner could require us to assume greater credit risk relating to that partner and could limit our ability to collect joint interest receivables. Failure to receive payments from our partners for their share of costs incurred on our oil and natural gas properties could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We are exposed to counterparty risk through our hedging activities using commodity derivative instruments and through other arrangements we enter into with financial and other institutions. We have entered into transactions with counterparties such as commercial banks, investment banks, insurance companies, and other financial institutions. These transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of any of these counterparties. Continued deterioration in the credit markets may impact the credit ratings of our current and potential counterparties and affect their ability to fulfill their existing obligations to us and their willingness to enter into future transactions with us. When we have oil and natural gas derivative contracts outstanding, we have exposure to these financial institutions related to such contracts, which may protect a portion of our cash flows when commodity prices decline. During periods of low oil and natural gas prices, we may have heightened counterparty risk associated with these derivative contracts because the value of our derivative positions may provide a significant amount of cash flow. If a hedging counterparty defaults on its obligations, we may not realize the benefit of some or all of our derivative instruments. We also maintain insurance policies with insurance companies to protect us against certain risks inherent in our business. If an insurer defaults on its obligation to us, we may not be reimbursed for losses we have insured against. In addition, if any lender under our credit facility is unable to fund its commitment, our liquidity may be reduced by an amount up to the aggregate amount of such lender’s commitment under our credit facility. We are subject to extensive governmental laws and regulations, including environmental regulations, that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business and could result in restrictions on our operations or civil or criminal liability. Our exploration, development and production operations, our activities in connection with storage and transportation of oil and other hydrocarbons and our use of facilities for treating, processing or otherwise handling hydrocarbons and related wastes are subject to various federal, state and local laws, orders and regulations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal fines and penalties or the imposition of injunctive relief. 28 Table of Contents Future compliance with laws and regulations, including environmental, production, transportation, sales, rate and tax rules and regulations, and any changes to such laws or regulations, may reduce our profitability and have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity and cash flows. Such laws and regulations may require more stringent and costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements. See Part I, Item 1, “Business—Environmental Regulations” in this Annual Report. The proposed U.S. federal budget for fiscal year 2011 includes certain provisions that, if passed as originally submitted, will have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. On February 1, 2010, the Obama administration released its proposed federal budget for fiscal year 2011. The proposed budget would repeal many tax incentives and deductions that are currently used by U.S. oil and gas companies and impose new taxes. The provisions include: elimination of the ability to fully deduct intangible drilling costs in the year incurred; increases in the taxation of foreign source income; levy of an excise tax on Gulf of Mexico oil and gas production; repeal of the manufacturing tax deduction for oil and gas companies; increase in the geological and geophysical amortization period for independent producers; and implementation of a fee on non-producing leases located on federal lands. If these proposals are enacted, our taxes will increase, potentially significantly, which would have a negative impact on our net income and cash flows. This could also reduce our drilling activities. Since none of these proposals has yet to be voted on or become law, we do not know the ultimate impact any of these proposals may have on our business. The adoption of pending climate change legislation could result in increased operating costs, create delays in our obtaining air pollution permits for new or modified facilities, and reduce demand for the crude oil and natural gas we produce. In June 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009, also known as the “Waxman-Markey Bill.” The Senate’s version, The Clean Energy Jobs and American Power Act, or the “Boxer-Kerry Bill,” has been introduced, but has not passed. Although these bills include several differences that require reconciliation before becoming law, both bills contain the basic feature of establishing a “cap and trade” system for restricting greenhouse gas emissions in the United States. Under such a system, certain sources of greenhouse gas emissions would be required to obtain greenhouse gas emission “allowances” corresponding to their annual emissions of greenhouse gases. The number of emission allowances issued each year would decline as necessary to meet overall emission reduction goals. As the number of greenhouse gas emission allowances declines each year, the cost or value of allowances is expected to escalate significantly. The ultimate outcome of this legislative initiative remains uncertain. In addition to the pending climate legislation, the EPA has issued greenhouse gas monitoring and reporting regulations that went into effect on January 1, 2010 and require reporting by regulated facilities by March 2011 and annually thereafter. Beyond measuring and reporting, the EPA issued an “Endangerment Finding” under section 202(a) of the Clean Air Act, concluding greenhouse gas pollution threatens the public health and welfare of current and future generations. The EPA has proposed regulations that would require permits for and reductions in greenhouse gas emissions for certain facilities, and may issue final rules this year. Any laws or regulations that may be adopted to restrict or reduce emissions of greenhouse gases could require us to incur increased operating costs and could have an adverse effect on demand for the oil and natural gas we produce. Derivatives regulation could restrict our ability to execute commodity derivative instruments as a hedge against fluctuating commodity prices. Various measures are being proposed by committees of the U.S. Congress, the U.S. Treasury Department, and other agencies to restrict the use of over-the-counter (“OTC”) derivative instruments. These proposals include, but are not limited to, requiring cash collateral on all OTC derivatives and requiring all OTC derivatives to be executed and settled through an exchange system. Although we do not currently know the exact form any final legislation or rule-making activity will take, any restriction on the use of OTC instruments could have a significant impact on our business. 29 Table of Contents Terrorist attacks aimed at our facilities could adversely affect our business. Since the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, the U.S. government has issued warnings that U.S. energy assets may be the future targets of terrorist organizations. These developments have subjected our operations to increased risks. Any future terrorist attack at our facilities, or those of our customers, could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and operations. If third party pipelines and other facilities interconnected to our natural gas pipelines and facilities become partially or fully unavailable to transport natural gas and NGLs, our revenues could be adversely affected. We depend upon third party pipelines and other facilities that provide delivery options to and from our pipelines and facilities. Since we do not own or operate these pipelines or other facilities, their continuing operation is not within our control. If any of these third party pipelines and other facilities become partially or fully unavailable to transport natural gas and NGLs, or if the gas quality specification for their pipelines or facilities changes so as to restrict our ability to transport gas on these pipelines or facilities, our revenues could be adversely affected. A change in the jurisdictional characterization of some of our assets by federal, state or local regulatory agencies or a change in policy by those agencies may result in increased regulation of our assets, which may cause our revenues to decline and operating expenses to increase. Our operations are generally exempt from FERC regulation under the NGA, but FERC regulation still affects our non-FERC jurisdictional businesses and the markets for products derived from these businesses. The FERC has recently issued Order 704 requiring certain participants in the natural gas market, including interstate and intrastate pipelines, natural gas gatherers, natural gas marketers, and natural gas processors, that engage in a minimum level of natural gas sales or purchases to submit annual reports regarding those transactions to the FERC. Other FERC regulations may indirectly impact our businesses and the markets for products derived from these businesses. The FERC’s policies and practices across the range of its natural gas regulatory activities, including, for example, its policies on open access transportation, gas quality, ratemaking, capacity release and market center promotion, may indirectly affect the intrastate natural gas market. In recent years, the FERC has pursued pro-competitive policies in its regulation of interstate natural gas pipelines. However, we cannot assure you that the FERC will continue this approach as it considers matters such as pipeline rates and rules and policies that may affect rights of access to transportation capacity. Section 1(b) of the NGA exempts natural gas gathering facilities from regulation by the FERC as a natural gas company under the NGA. We believe that the natural gas pipelines in our gathering systems meet the traditional tests the FERC has used to establish a pipeline’s status as a gatherer not subject to regulation as a natural gas company. However, the distinction between FERC-regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services is the subject of substantial, on-going litigation, so the classification and regulation of our gathering facilities are subject to change based on future determinations by the FERC, the courts, or Congress. In addition, the courts have determined that certain pipelines that would otherwise be subject to the ICA are exempt from regulation by the FERC under the ICA as proprietary lines. The classification of a line as a proprietary line is a fact-based determination subject to FERC and court review. Accordingly, the classification and regulation of some of our gathering facilities and transportation pipelines may be subject to change based on future determinations by the FERC, the courts, or Congress. The MMS has communicated that it will commence more stringent enforcement of requirements to decommission facilities that pose a hazard to safety or the environment or are not useful for lease operations and are not capable of oil and natural gas production in “paying quantities.” Historically, the MMS granted approval to operators to maintain such facilities in order to conduct other future activities. However, we expect that this 30 Table of Contents practice will be more limited in the future. The MMS has stated that these measures are in response to recent hurricane seasons in which idle structures were damaged or destroyed. We recently responded to an MMS written request to review and evaluate our inventory of non-producing wells and facilities to determine the future utility of these structures and the level of threat posed to the environment and human safety in the event of a “catastrophic loss.” As a result, we reviewed a plan with the MMS to perform wellbore plugging and abandonment and decommissioning work on certain facilities and structures in our East Bay field during 2009, 2010 and 2011. The MMS and other regulatory bodies, including those regulating the decommissioning of our pipelines and facilities under the jurisdiction of the state of Louisiana, may change their requirements or enforce requirements in a manner inconsistent with our expectations, which could materially increase the cost of such activities and/or accelerate the timing of cash expenditures and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The failure to comply with these rules and regulations can result in substantial penalties, including lease termination in the case of federal leases. The regulatory burden on the oil and natural gas industry increases our cost of doing business and, consequently, affects our profitability. Our competitors in the oil and natural gas industry are subject to the same regulatory requirements and restrictions that affect our operations, though the impact of those requirements may vary significantly based on the nature and location of operations and related pipelines and facilities. Should we fail to comply with all applicable FERC administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines. Under the EPAct 2005, the FERC has civil penalty authority under the NGA to impose penalties for current violations of up to $1 million per day for each violation and disgorgement of profits associated with any violation. While our systems have traditionally not been subject to full FERC regulation, the FERC has adopted regulations that may subject certain of our otherwise non-FERC jurisdictional facilities to FERC annual reporting. Additional rules and legislation pertaining to those and other matters may be considered or adopted by the FERC from time to time. Failure to comply with those regulations in the future could subject us to civil penalty liability. Competition in the oil and natural gas industry is intense, which may adversely affect us. We operate in a highly competitive environment for acquiring oil and natural gas properties, marketing oil and natural gas and securing trained personnel. Many of our competitors possess and employ financial, technical and personnel resources substantially greater than ours, which can be particularly important in Gulf of Mexico and Gulf Coast onshore activities. Those companies may be able to pay more for productive oil and natural gas properties and exploratory prospects and to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or personnel resources permit. Our ability to acquire additional prospects and to discover reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. Also, there is substantial competition for capital available for investment in the oil and natural gas industry. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring prospective reserves, developing reserves, marketing hydrocarbons, attracting and retaining quality personnel and raising additional capital. If we are unable to compete successfully in these areas in the future, our revenues and growth may be diminished or restricted. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 31 Table of Contents 