Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Our business requires substantial capital investment and maintenance expenditures, and our capital resources may not be adequate to provide for all of our cash requirements. Our operations are capital intensive. Our ability to replace our oil and natural gas production and maintain our production levels and reserves requires extensive capital investment, including substantial capital expenditures for the acquisition, development, production, exploration and abandonment of oil and gas properties. Our business also requires substantial expenditures for routine maintenance. Our capital requirements will depend on numerous factors, and we cannot predict accurately the timing and amount of our capital requirements. Though we have the ability to borrow under our new credit facility, we intend to finance our development and exploration capital expenditures primarily through cash flow from operations. Because our cash flows are subject to a range of economic, competitive and business risks, we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to meet our debt payment obligations and to fund these capital requirements. Additionally, the amounts available to us under our new credit facility may not be sufficient for our capital requirements not funded by cash flow from operations, and we may not be able to access additional financing resources for a variety of reasons, including restrictive covenants in our new credit facility. If we are unable to make scheduled payments on our new credit facility, or if our financing requirements are not met by our new credit facility and we are unable to access sources of additional financing on terms we find acceptable, our business, operations, financial condition and cash flows will be negatively impacted. Without additional capital resources, we may be forced to limit or defer our planned oil and natural gas exploration and development program and this will adversely affect the recoverability and ultimate value of our 21 Table of Contents oil and natural gas properties, in turn negatively affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may also be unable to obtain sufficient credit capacity with counterparties to finance the hedging of our future crude oil and natural gas production which may limit our ability to manage price risk. As a result, we may lack the capital necessary to complete potential acquisitions, obtain credit necessary to enter into derivative contracts to hedge our future crude oil and natural gas production or to capitalize on other business opportunities. The borrowing base under our new credit facility is subject to re-determination and could be reduced in the future if commodity prices decline, which will limit our available funding for exploration and development. Our current borrowing base under our new credit facility is $150 million, and we currently have no amounts outstanding under our new credit facility. Our borrowing base is subject to semi-annual and certain other interim re-determinations by our lenders in their sole discretion. The next re-determination of the borrowing base is scheduled to occur on May 1, 2011. The lenders will re-determine the borrowing base based on an engineering report with respect to our oil and natural gas reserves, which will take into account the prevailing oil and natural gas prices at such time. Any reduction of the borrowing base is subject to approval of lenders holding not less than 66 2/3% of the lending commitments under our new credit facility. In the future, we may not be able to access adequate funding under our new credit facility as a result of (i) a decrease in our borrowing base due to the outcome of a subsequent borrowing base re-determination, or (ii) an unwillingness or inability on the part of our lending counterparties to meet their funding obligations. If oil and natural gas commodity prices deteriorate, we anticipate that the revised borrowing base under our new credit facility may be reduced. As a result, we may be unable to obtain adequate funding under our new credit facility. If funding is not available when needed, it could adversely affect our exploration and development plans as currently anticipated and our ability to make new acquisitions, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our production, revenues and results of operations. In addition, if there is a decrease in our borrowing base as a result of the outcome of a subsequent borrowing base re-determination and, as a result of such decrease, the outstanding borrowings under our new credit facility exceed the re-determined borrowing base, we will be required to repay such excess within 60 days. We may not have the financial resources in the future to make any mandatory principal prepayments required under our new credit facility. Our substantial level of indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under the notes. We and the guarantors of the 8.25% Notes (the “guarantors”), on a consolidated basis, have outstanding approximately $210.0 million of senior indebtedness, none of which is secured. Our substantial level of indebtedness could have significant effects on our business. For example, our level of indebtedness and the terms of our debt agreements may: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations under the 8.25% Notes, our other indebtedness and our contractual and commercial commitments and increase the risk that we may default on our debt obligations; • heighten our vulnerability to downturns in our business, our industry or in the general economy and restrict us from exploiting business opportunities or making acquisitions; • limit management’s discretion in operating our business; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, and other general corporate purposes; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; 22 Table of Contents • limit our ability to borrow additional funds; and • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business, the industry in which we operate or the general economy. Each of these factors may have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and viability. Our ability to make payments with respect to the 8.25% Notes and to satisfy our other debt obligations will depend on our future operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors affecting our company and industry, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, the indenture governing the 8.25% Notes (the “Indenture”) and our new credit facility contain financial and other restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debts. Despite existing debt levels, we may still be able to incur substantially more debt, which would increase the risks associated with our leverage. Even with our existing debt levels, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial amounts of additional debt in the future, including debt under our new and future credit facilities. As of December 31, 2010, after giving effect to the issuance of the 8.25% Notes and the ASOP Acquisition and entry into our new credit facility, we would have been able to incur approximately $867.0 million of additional indebtedness permitted by the Indenture, including approximately $150.0 million of debt under our new credit facility, and other permitted debt categories or baskets. In addition, the Indenture will allow us to issue additional notes under certain circumstances, which will also be guaranteed by the guarantors. Although the terms of the 8.25% Notes and our new and future credit facilities will limit our ability to incur additional debt, these terms do not and will not prohibit us from incurring substantial amounts of additional debt for specific purposes or under certain circumstances. If new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the related risks that we and they now face could intensify and could further exacerbate the risks associated with our leverage. Our new credit facility and the Indenture impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries that may prevent us from pursuing certain business opportunities and restrict our ability to operate our business. Our new credit facility and the Indenture contain covenants that restrict our and our restricted subsidiaries’ or, in the case of the new credit facility, our and all of our subsidiaries’, ability to take various actions, such as: • transferring or selling assets; • paying dividends or distributions, buying subordinated indebtedness or securities, making certain investments or making other restricted payments; • incurring or guaranteeing additional indebtedness or, in the case of the Indenture and only with respect to our restricted subsidiaries, issuing preferred stock; • creating or incurring liens; • incurring dividend or other payment restrictions affecting restricted subsidiaries; • consummating a merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all our assets; • entering into transactions with affiliates; • engaging in business other than a business that is the same or similar to our current business or a reasonably related extension thereof; • making capital expenditures; • issuing capital stock of certain subsidiaries; 23 Table of Contents • entering into sale/leaseback transactions; • making acquisitions or investments; and • designating subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries. In addition, our new credit facility restricts us from entering into certain hedging contracts or extending credit. Our new credit facility also requires, and any future credit facilities may additionally require, us to comply with specified financial ratios, including regarding interest coverage, total leverage, current assets to current liabilities or other similar ratios. We may also be prevented from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise if we fail to meet certain ratios or because of the limitations imposed on us by the restrictive covenants under these agreements. The restrictions contained in our new credit facility and the Indenture may also limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions, meet capital needs or otherwise restrict our activities or business plans and adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, enter into acquisitions, execute our business strategy, effectively compete with companies that are not similarly restricted or engage in other business activities that would be in our interest. In the future, we may also incur debt obligations that might subject us to additional and different restrictive covenants that could affect our financial and operational flexibility. We cannot assure you that we will be granted waivers or amendments to these agreements if for any reason we are unable to comply with these agreements, or that we will be able to refinance our debt on acceptable terms or at all should we seek to do so. Our ability to comply with these covenants will likely be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will satisfy those requirements. A breach of any of these provisions could result in a default under our new credit facility, the Indenture or any future credit facilities we may enter into, which could allow all amounts outstanding thereunder to be declared immediately due and payable, subject to the terms and conditions of the documents governing such indebtedness. If we were unable to repay the accelerated amounts, our secured lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure such indebtedness. This would likely in turn trigger cross-acceleration and cross-default rights under any other credit facilities and indentures, if any then exist governing the 8.25% Notes and the terms of our other indebtedness outstanding at such time. If the amounts outstanding under our new credit facility, the 8.25% Notes or any other indebtedness outstanding at such time were to be accelerated or were the subject of foreclosure actions, we cannot assure you that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full the money owed to the lenders or to our other debt holders. A substantial or extended decline in oil and natural gas prices may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and our ability to meet our debt obligations, operating cost requirements, capital expenditure requirements and other financial commitments. The price we receive for our oil and natural gas production heavily influences our revenue, profitability, financial condition, cash flow, access to capital and future rate of growth. Oil and natural gas are commodities and, as a result, their prices are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand. Historically, the markets for oil and natural gas have been volatile. While oil and natural gas prices have recently recovered from their low levels in 2009, there are different views about the strength of the economic recovery and future demand for oil and natural gas. Consequently, there is no assurance that prices will not fall again. The prices we receive for our production and the levels of our production depend on numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include: • changes in the global supply, demand and inventories of oil; • domestic natural gas supply, demand and inventories; • the actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries; • the price and quantity of foreign imports of oil; • the price and availability of liquefied natural gas imports; 24 Table of Contents • political conditions, including embargoes, in or affecting other oil-producing countries; • economic and energy infrastructure disruptions caused by actual or threatened acts of war, or terrorist activities, or national security measures deployed to protect the United States from such actual or threatened acts or activities; • economic stability of major oil and natural gas companies and the interdependence of oil and natural gas and energy trading companies; • the level of worldwide oil and natural gas exploration and production activity; • weather conditions, including energy infrastructure disruptions resulting from those conditions; • technological advances effecting energy consumption; and • the price and availability of alternative fuels. Oil and natural gas prices as of the date of this Annual Report permit us to maintain the minimal investment necessary to mitigate the impact of natural reservoir declines on our current production levels. However, if prices fall to their previous low levels, we may not be able to replace our reserves and our production may decline significantly. As a result, we could experience a decline in our revenues and available capital, which would likely substantially decrease our capital expenditures, drilling activities and operations. Any continuing volatility in the financial and credit markets may affect our ability to obtain funding or to obtain funding on acceptable terms. These factors may hinder or prevent us from meeting our future capital needs and/or continuing to meet our obligations and conduct our business. The recent credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial systems have had an impact on our business and our financial condition, and we may face challenges if economic and financial market conditions do not improve. Historically, we have used our cash flow from operations and borrowings under our credit facility to fund our capital expenditures and have relied on the capital markets to provide us with additional capital for large or exceptional transactions. A continuation or recurrence of the economic crisis could further reduce the demand for oil and natural gas and put downward pressure on the prices for oil and natural gas. In the future, we may not be able to access adequate funding under our new credit facility and any other debt instruments we may enter into as a result of (i) a decrease in our borrowing base due to the outcome of a subsequent borrowing base re-determination, or (ii) an unwillingness or inability on the part of our lending counterparties to meet their funding obligations. Declines in commodity prices, or a continuing decline in those prices, could result in a determination to lower the borrowing base in the future and, in such case, we could be required to repay any indebtedness in excess of the borrowing base. Because our consolidated financial statements reflect fresh-start accounting adjustments made upon emergence from our Chapter 11 reorganization and because of the effects of the transactions that became effective pursuant to our plan of reorganization, financial information included in this Annual Report for periods prior to September 30, 2009 are not comparable with our financial information for periods on or after September 30, 2009. In connection with our Chapter 11 reorganization, we adopted fresh-start accounting effective on September 30, 2009 in accordance with ASC Topic 852, “Reorganizations.” Our adoption of fresh-start accounting resulted in our becoming a new entity for financial reporting purposes. As required by fresh-start accounting, our assets and liabilities were adjusted to reflect fair value as of September 30, 2009. In addition to fresh-start accounting, our financial statements reflect the effects of all of the transactions implemented by our plan of reorganization. Accordingly, our financial statements for periods prior to September 30, 2009 are not comparable with our financial statements for periods on or after September 30, 2009. Furthermore, the estimates and assumptions used to implement fresh-start accounting are inherently subject to significant uncertainties and 25 Table of Contents contingencies beyond our control. Accordingly, we cannot provide assurance that the estimates, assumptions, and values reflected in our valuations will be realized, and our actual results could vary materially. Our current operations and a significant part of the value of our production and reserves are concentrated in the Gulf of Mexico. Because of this concentration, any production problems or inaccuracies in reserve estimates related to these areas could have a material adverse effect on our business. Virtually all of our current operations are concentrated in the Gulf of Mexico region. We are more vulnerable to operational, regulatory and other risks associated with the Gulf of Mexico, including the risk of adverse weather conditions, than many of our competitors that are more geographically diversified because all or a substantial portion of our operations could experience the same condition at the same time. Fifty-two percent of our net daily production came from our South Timbalier and other Greater Bay Marchand area properties for the year ended December 31, 2010 and approximately 35% of our proved reserves at December 31, 2010 were located in the fields that comprise this area. In addition, 21% of our net daily production for the year ended December 31, 2010 came from our East Bay field and approximately 54% of our proved reserves at December 31, 2010 were located in this area. After giving effect to the ASOP Acquisition, 58% of our pro forma net daily production for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 68% of our pro forma proved reserves at December 31, 2010 were attributable to these areas. If the actual reserves associated with these two properties are less than our estimated reserves, such a reduction of reserves could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. During the 2008 hurricane season, our production was reduced by approximately 21%, on an annual basis, as a result of damage to third party pipelines caused by two hurricanes. The hurricane damage limited our ability to sell our production from certain properties for extended periods of time during the third and fourth quarters of 2008. If mechanical problems, storms or other events were to curtail a substantial portion of the production in these areas, such a curtailment could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The relatively steep decline curves generally associated with oil and gas properties located in the Gulf of Mexico region subjects us to higher reserve replacement needs. Producing oil and natural gas reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. High initial production rates generally result in recovery of a relatively higher percentage of reserves from properties during the initial few years of production, often followed by a rapid decline in the rate of production. Because substantially all of our operations are concentrated in the Gulf of Mexico, and because production from reservoirs in the Gulf of Mexico region generally declines more rapidly compared to reservoirs in many other producing regions of the world, our reserve replacement needs are relatively greater than those of producers with reserves outside the Gulf of Mexico region. As of December 31, 2010, our independent petroleum engineers estimate that, on average, 66% of our total proved reserves will be produced within five years. We will have to continue to develop, exploit, find or acquire additional reserves to sustain our current production levels and to grow our production. We may not be able to keep pace with technological developments in our industry. The natural gas and oil industry is characterized by rapid and significant technological advancements and introductions of new products and services using new technologies. As others use or develop new technologies, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage or competitive pressures may force us to implement those new technologies at substantial costs. In addition, other natural gas and oil companies may have greater financial, 26 Table of Contents technical, and personnel resources that allow them to enjoy technological advantages and may in the future allow them to implement new technologies before we can. We may not be able to respond to these competitive pressures or implement new technologies on a timely basis or at an acceptable cost. If one or more of the technologies we use now or in the future were to become obsolete or if we are unable to use the most advanced commercially available technology, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. With respect to a portion of our properties, we are not the operator and therefore are not in a position to control the timing of development efforts, the associated costs, or the rate of production of the reserves on such properties. As we carry out our planned drilling program, we will not serve as operator of all planned wells. As of December 31, 2010, we operated approximately 86% of our properties, based on proved reserves at December 31, 2010. Following the ASOP Acquisition, we operate approximately 80% of our properties, including the ASOP Properties, based on proved reserves at December 31, 2010. As a result, we may have limited ability to exercise influence over the operations of some non-operated properties or their associated costs. Dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects, and limited ability to influence operations and associated costs could prevent the realization of targeted returns on capital in drilling or acquisition activities. The success and timing of development and exploitation activities on properties operated by others depend upon a number of factors that will be largely outside of our control, including: • the timing and amount of capital expenditures; • the availability of suitable offshore drilling rigs, drilling equipment, support vessels, production and transportation infrastructure and qualified operating personnel; • the operator’s expertise and financial resources; • approval of other participants in drilling wells; • selection of technology; and • the rate of production of the reserves. Our operations in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico area present unique operating risks. The deepwater Gulf of Mexico area has had relatively limited drilling activity due to risks associated with geological complexity, water depth and higher drilling and development costs, which could result in substantial cost overruns and/or uneconomic projects or wells. Because we have operations in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico area, we are exposed to these risks. Our deepwater assets do not fit within our long-term strategy, and there are no current plans to develop these interests. As such, we may monetize or trade these assets. However, there is no assurance that we will be able to divest these interests on terms acceptable to us. If we place hedges on future production and encounter difficulties meeting that production, we may not realize the originally anticipated cash flows. Our assets consist of a mix of reserves, with some being developed while others are undeveloped. To the extent that we sell the production of these reserves on a forward-looking basis but do not realize that anticipated level of production, our cash flow may be adversely affected if energy prices rise above the prices for the forward-looking sales. In this case, we would be required to make payments to the purchaser of the forward-looking sale equal to the difference between the current commodity price and that in the sales contract multiplied by the physical volume of the shortfall. There is the risk that production estimates could be inaccurate or that storms or other unanticipated problems could cause the production to be less than the amount anticipated, causing us to make payments to the purchasers pursuant to the terms of the hedging contracts. 27 Table of Contents Our price risk management activities could result in financial losses or could reduce our income, which may adversely affect our cash flows. We enter into derivative contracts to reduce the impact of natural gas and oil price volatility on our cash flow from operations. Currently, we use a combination of natural gas and crude oil put and swap arrangements to mitigate the volatility of future natural gas and oil prices received. Our actual future production may be significantly higher or lower than we estimate at the time we enter into derivative contracts for such period. If the actual amount of production is higher than we estimate, we will have greater commodity price exposure than we intended. If the actual amount of production is lower than the notional amount that is subject to our derivative financial instruments, we might be forced to satisfy all or a portion of our derivative transactions without the benefit of the cash flow from our sale of the underlying physical commodity, resulting in a substantial diminution of our liquidity. As a result of these factors, our hedging activities may not be as effective as we intend in reducing the volatility of our cash flows, and in certain circumstances may actually increase the volatility of our cash flows. In addition, our price risk management activities are subject to the following risks: • a counterparty may not perform its obligation under the applicable derivative instrument; • there may be a change in the expected differential between the underlying commodity price in the derivative instrument and the actual price received; and • the steps we take to monitor our derivative financial instruments may not detect and prevent violations of our risk management policies and procedures. Loss of key management and failure to attract qualified management could negatively impact our operations. Successfully implementing our strategies will depend, in part, on our management team. The loss of members of our management team could have an adverse effect on our business. Our business will also be dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Acquiring and keeping qualified personnel could prove more difficult or cost substantially more than estimated. This could cause us to incur greater costs, or prevent us from pursuing our strategy as quickly as we would otherwise wish to do. Our ability to collect payments from our partners depends on the partners’ creditworthiness. In operating our oil and natural gas properties, we typically incur costs on behalf of our partners in advance of billing and collecting our partners’ share of those costs. Some of our partners are highly leveraged and may become unable to pay us for their share of the operating costs. Further, a significant adverse change in the financial and/or credit position of a partner could require us to assume greater credit risk relating to that partner and could limit our ability to collect joint interest receivables. Failure to receive payments from our partners for their share of costs incurred on our oil and natural gas properties could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Risks Related to Our Acquisition Strategy Our acquisition strategy involves potential risks that could adversely impact our future financial performance. A significant component of our business strategy is to acquire oil and gas properties. Acquisitions of producing properties from third parties require us to assess many factors that are inherently inexact and may be inaccurate, including: • the risk that reserves expected to support the acquired assets may not be of the anticipated magnitude or may not be developed as anticipated; • the risk that financial information relating to the acquired assets may not be accurate; 28 Table of Contents • inaccurate assumptions about revenues and costs, including synergies; • significant increases in our indebtedness and working capital requirements; • an inability to transition and integrate successfully or timely the businesses we acquire; • the cost of transition and integration of data systems and processes; • potential environmental problems and costs; • the assumption of unknown liabilities; • limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • increased demands on existing personnel and on our corporate structure; • increased responsibility for plugging and abandonment costs; • customer or key employee losses of the acquired businesses; and • the failure to realize expected growth or profitability. The scope and cost of these risks may ultimately be materially greater than estimated at the time of the acquisition. Further, our future acquisition costs may be higher than those we have achieved historically. Any of these factors could adversely impact our future financial performance and ability to pay principal and interest on the notes. Future transactions may prove to stretch our internal resources and infrastructure. As a result, we may need to hire additional personnel and invest in additional resources, which will increase our costs. Any further acquisitions we make over the short term would likely exacerbate these risks. We may record material impairments to the carrying values of our oil and natural gas properties if oil and gas prices decline from prices we used to estimate the acquisition fair values of acquired oil and gas properties. We record acquisitions of oil and natural gas properties, including the ASOP Acquisition, using the purchase method of accounting which requires that we record the acquired oil and natural gas properties at their fair values as of the acquisition date. We may be required to recognize material non-cash impairment charges in future reporting periods if market prices for oil or natural gas decline and, as a result, the estimated fair values of the acquired oil and natural gas properties decline from the values estimated as of the acquisition date. We may be unable to successfully integrate the operations of the properties we acquire. Integration of the operations of the properties we acquire with our existing business will be a complex, time-consuming and costly process. Failure to successfully integrate the acquired businesses and operations in a timely manner may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The difficulties of combining the acquired operations include, among other things: • operating a significantly larger combined organization; • integrating corporate, technological and administrative functions; • integrating internal controls and other corporate governance matters; • diverting management’s attention from other business concerns; • loss of key vendors from the acquired businesses; • a significant increase in our indebtedness; and • potential environmental or regulatory liabilities and title problems. 29 Table of Contents The process of integrating our operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of our business. Members of our senior management may be required to devote considerable amounts of time to this integration process, which will decrease the time they will have to manage our business. If our senior management is not able to effectively manage the integration process, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, our business could suffer. Our operating performance, revenues and costs could be materially adversely affected if: • we are not successful in completing the integration of acquired properties into our operations; • the integration takes longer or is more complex than anticipated; or • we cannot operate acquired properties as effectively as we anticipate. We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from our acquisitions. We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from any future acquisitions, such as increased earnings, cost savings and revenue enhancements, for various reasons, including difficulties integrating operations and personnel, higher than expected acquisition and operating costs or other difficulties, unknown liabilities, inaccurate reserve estimates and fluctuations in market prices. We may not have fully identified liabilities associated with properties or assets we acquire or obtained adequate protection from sellers against liabilities. Our assessments of potential acquisitions may not reveal all existing or potential problems with the subject properties or permit us to become adequately familiar with the properties in order to evaluate fully their deficiencies and capabilities. In the course of our due diligence, we may not inspect every well, platform or pipeline. Our inspections may not identify structural and environmental problems, such as pipeline corrosion or groundwater contamination. We may not obtain contractual indemnities from the seller for liabilities that it created. We may be required to assume the risk of the physical condition of the properties in addition to the risk that the properties may not perform in accordance with our expectations. As a result, we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from future acquisitions, such as increased earnings, cost savings and revenue enhancements. The properties we acquire may not produce as projected, and we may be unable to determine reserve potential, identify liabilities associated with the acquired properties or obtain protection from sellers against such liabilities. The properties we acquire may not produce as expected, may be in an unexpected condition and we may be subject to increased costs and liabilities, including environmental liabilities. Although we review properties prior to acquisition in a manner consistent with industry practices, such reviews are not capable of identifying all potential adverse conditions. Furthermore, we have not yet been able to subject the preparation of reserve estimates for acquired properties to the same internal controls we have for the preparation of reserve estimates for our existing properties. Generally, it is not feasible to review in depth every individual property involved in each acquisition. We focus our review efforts on the higher-value properties or properties with known adverse conditions and will sample the remainder. However, even a detailed review of records and properties and preparation of reserve reports in accordance with our internal controls may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems or permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their condition, any deficiencies, and development potential. If we are unable to execute our acquisition strategy successfully, our business may not continue to grow. We intend to pursue opportunistic acquisitions that leverage our organizational strengths. However, we may not be able to identify and consummate future acquisitions successfully, and assets that we do acquire may not yield anticipated benefits. Our failure to execute our acquisition strategy successfully in the future could limit our ability to continue to grow our business. 30 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Industry Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and estimated values of our reserves. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex, requiring interpretations of available technical data and many assumptions, including assumptions relating to economic factors. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves disclosed in this Annual Report. Estimates of oil and natural gas reserves are inherently imprecise. The preparation of our reserve estimates requires projections of production rates and timing of development expenditures, analysis of available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data, and assumptions about oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, drilling and operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves will vary from our estimates. If our estimates of the recoverable reserve volumes on a property are revised downward, if development costs exceed previous estimates or if commodity prices decrease, as discussed elsewhere in these risk factors, we may be required to record an impairment to our property and equipment, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Once recorded, an impairment of property and equipment may not be reversed at a later date. Our ability to obtain financing in the future may depend in part on our estimate of the proved oil and natural gas reserves for properties that will serve as collateral. If proved reserves on a property are revised downward, our ability to acquire adequate funding may be significantly reduced. The present value of future net cash flows from our proved reserves is not necessarily the same as the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. The present value of future net revenues from our proved reserves and the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows referred to in this Annual Report should not be assumed to represent or approximate the current market value of our estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves are computed using prices based on the unweighted, arithmetic average of the closing price on the first day of each of the twelve months during the preceding fiscal year and costs as of the date of the estimate held constant for the life of the reserves. However, actual future net cash flows from our natural gas and oil properties will be affected by factors such as: • the volume, pricing and duration of our natural gas and oil hedging contracts; • supply of and demand for natural gas and oil; • actual prices we receive for natural gas and oil; • our actual operating costs in producing natural gas and oil; • the amount and timing of our capital expenditures and decommissioning costs; • the amount and timing of actual production; and • changes in governmental regulations or taxation. The timing of both our production and our incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of oil and natural gas properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating 31 Table of Contents discounted future net cash flows may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the natural gas and oil industry in general. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our estimates of proved reserves and related PV-10 and standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows have been prepared in accordance with new SEC rules, which went into effect for fiscal years ending on or after December 31, 2009, and may make comparisons to prior periods difficult and could limit our ability to book additional proved undeveloped reserves in the future. This Annual Report presents estimates of our proved reserves and related PV-10 as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 and standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, all of which have been prepared and presented under new SEC rules. These new rules are effective for fiscal years ending on or after December 31, 2009, and require companies to prepare their reserves estimates using revised reserve definitions and revised pricing based on 12-month unweighted first-day-of the-month average pricing. The previous rules required that reserve estimates be calculated using year-end pricing. As a result of these changes, and because the new rules do not have a retroactive effect to periods that ended prior to December 31, 2009, direct comparisons to our prior period reserves amounts may be more difficult. Another impact of the new SEC rules is a general requirement that, subject to limited exceptions, proved undeveloped reserves may only be booked if they relate to wells scheduled to be drilled within five years of the date of booking. This new rule may limit our potential to book additional proved undeveloped reserves as we pursue our drilling program. Moreover, we may be required to write down our future proved undeveloped reserves if we do not drill and develop those reserves within the required five-year timeframe. The SEC has released only limited interpretive guidance regarding reporting of reserve estimates under the new rules and may not issue further interpretive guidance on the new rules. Accordingly, the estimates of our proved reserves for any periods ending on or after December 31, 2009 included in this Annual Report could differ materially from any estimates we might prepare applying more specific SEC interpretive guidance. On December 30, 2010, the SEC provided comments on the periodic filings we made with the SEC in 2010. These comments included comments on certain of our reserve disclosures, and we are in the process of responding to these comments. We do not believe that these comments will result in material changes to the reserve disclosures we have previously made. We may be limited in our ability to book additional proved undeveloped reserves under recent SEC rules. We have included in this Annual Report certain estimates of our and the ASOP Properties’ proved reserves as of December 31, 2010 prepared in a manner consistent with our and our independent petroleum engineer’s interpretation of the recent SEC rules relating to modernizing reserve estimation and disclosure requirements for oil and natural gas companies. These recent rules were effective for annual reporting periods ended on or after December 31, 2009. Included within these recent SEC reserve rules is a general requirement that, subject to limited exceptions, proved undeveloped reserves may only be classified as such if a development plan has been adopted indicating that they are scheduled to be drilled within five years of the date of booking. This rule may limit our potential to book additional proved undeveloped reserves as we pursue our drilling program. Further, if we postpone drilling of proved undeveloped reserves beyond this five-year development horizon, we may be required to write-off reserves previously recognized as proved undeveloped. Also, since we have acquired the ASOP Properties very recently, we do not have a development plan for these properties and there cannot be any assurance as to what level of proved undeveloped reserves will be supported by the plan we do develop. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 7% of our total proved reserves were undeveloped, and approximately 47% of our total proved reserves were developed non-producing reserves. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 24% of the ASOP Properties’ total proved reserves were undeveloped, and approximately 15% of the ASOP Properties’ total proved reserves were developed non-producing reserves. There can be no assurance that all of those reserves will ultimately be developed or produced. 32 Table of Contents If we are unable to replace the reserves that we have produced, our reserves and future revenues will decline. Our future success depends on our ability to find, develop, acquire and produce oil and natural gas reserves that are economically recoverable. Lower commodity prices and increased costs associated with exploration and production may lower the threshold of economic recoverability. Though our 2011 fiscal year capital budget contemplates the deployment of a significantly larger amount of capital compared to the capital expenditures in 2010, which were at levels significantly lower than our historical average, there can be no assurance that we will be able to grow production through the drill-bit at rates we have experienced in the past. Though we intend to pursue development and acquisition opportunities, there is no assurance that our efforts will yield their intended results. Without continued successful acquisition or exploration activities, our reserves and revenues will decline as a result of our current reserves being depleted by production. We may not be able to find or acquire additional reserves on an economic basis. Unanticipated decommissioning costs could materially adversely affect our future financial position and results of operations. We may become responsible for unanticipated costs associated with abandoning and reclaiming wells, facilities and pipelines. Abandonment and reclamation of facilities and the costs associated therewith are often referred to as “decommissioning.” Should decommissioning be required that is not presently anticipated, or should the decommissioning be accelerated (such as can happen after a hurricane), these costs may exceed the value of reserves remaining at any particular time. We may have to draw on funds from other sources to satisfy such costs. The use of other funds to satisfy these decommissioning costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. We may not be insured against all of the operating risks to which our business is exposed. In accordance with industry practice, we maintain insurance coverage against some, but not all, of the operating risks to which our business is exposed. We insure some, but not all, of our properties from operational and hurricane related events. We currently have insurance policies that include coverage for general liability, physical damage to our oil and gas properties, operational control of wells, oil pollution, third party liability, workers’ compensation and employers’ liability and other coverage. Our insurance coverage includes deductibles that must be met prior to recovery, as well as sub-limits and/or self-insurance. Additionally, our insurance is subject to exclusions and limitations, and there is no assurance that such coverage will adequately protect us against liability from all potential consequences and damages and losses. Currently, we have general liability insurance coverage with an annual aggregate limit of $2.0 million and umbrella liability coverage with an aggregate limit of $150.0 million applicable to our working interest. We also have an offshore property physical damage policy that contains a $70.0 million annual aggregate named windstorm limit. Our operational control of well coverage provides limits that vary by well location and depth and range from a combined single limit of $20.0 million to $75.0 million per occurrence. Deepwater wells have a coverage limit of $50.0 million per occurrence. Additionally, we maintain $70.0 million in oil pollution liability coverage. Our control of well and oil pollution liability policy limits are scaled proportionately to our working interests, except for our deepwater control of well coverage, which limit is to our working interest and all of our policies described above are subject to deductibles, sub-limits and/or self-insurance. Under our service agreements, including drilling contracts, generally we are indemnified for injuries and death of the service provider’s employees as well as contractors and subcontractors hired by the service provider. An operational or hurricane related event may cause damage or liability in excess of our coverage, which might severely impact our financial position. We may be liable for damages from an event relating to a project in which we are a non-operator, but have a working interest in such project. Such an event may also cause a significant interruption to our business, which might also severely impact our financial position. For example, we experienced production interruptions in 2005, 2006 and 2007 from Hurricanes Katrina and Rita and in 2008 and 2009 from Hurricanes Gustav and Ike for which we had no production interruption insurance. 33 Table of Contents We reevaluate the purchase of insurance, policy limits and terms annually each April. In light of the recent catastrophic accident in the Gulf of Mexico, we may not be able to secure similar coverage for the same costs. Future insurance coverage for our industry could increase in cost and may include higher deductibles or retentions. In addition, some forms of insurance may become unavailable in the future or unavailable on terms that we believe are economically acceptable. No assurance can be given that we will be able to maintain insurance in the future at rates that we consider reasonable and we may elect to maintain minimal or no insurance coverage. We may not be able to secure additional insurance or bonding that might be required by new governmental regulations. This may cause us to restrict our operations in the Gulf of Mexico, which might severely impact our financial position. The occurrence of a significant event, not fully insured against, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may incur substantial losses and be subject to substantial liability claims as a result of our oil and natural gas operations. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured and underinsured events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to all of the operating risks associated with drilling for and producing oil and natural gas, including the possibility of: • environmental hazards, such as uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, brine, well fluids, toxic gas or other pollution into the environment, including groundwater and shoreline contamination; • abnormally pressured formations; • blow-outs and surface cratering; • mechanical difficulties and pipe, cement, sub-sea well or pipeline failures; • fires and explosions; • personal injuries and death; and • natural disasters, especially hurricanes and tropical storms in the Gulf of Mexico region. If we experience any of these problems, well bores, platforms, gathering systems and processing facilities could be affected, which could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations. We could also incur substantial losses because of costs and/or liability incurred as a result of: • injury or loss of life; • severe damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; • pollution and other environmental damage; • clean-up responsibilities; • regulatory investigations and penalties; • suspension of our operations; and • repairs to resume operations. Exploring for and producing oil and natural gas are high-risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our future success will depend on the success of our exploration and production activities. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to numerous risks beyond our control, including the risk that drilling will not result in commercially viable oil or natural gas production. Our decisions to purchase, explore, develop or otherwise exploit prospects or properties will depend in part on the evaluation of data 34 Table of Contents obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. Our cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain before drilling commences. Overruns in planned expenditures are common risks that can make a particular project uneconomical. Further, many factors may curtail, delay or cancel drilling activity, including the following: • pressure or irregularities in geological formations; • shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment and qualified personnel; • equipment failures or accidents; • adverse weather conditions, such as hurricanes and tropical storms; • reductions in oil and natural gas prices; • title problems; • limitations in the market for oil and natural gas; and • cost of services to drill wells. If we are unable to effectively manage the commodity price risk of our production if energy prices fall, we may not realize the anticipated cash flows from our acquisitions. Compared to some other participants in the oil and gas industry, we are a relatively small company with modest resources. Therefore, there is the possibility that we may be unable to find counterparties willing to enter into derivative arrangements with us or be required to either purchase relatively expensive put options, or commit to deliver future production, to manage the commodity price risk of our future production. To the extent that we commit to deliver future production, we may be forced to make cash deposits available to counterparties as they mark to market these financial hedges. Proposed changes in regulations affecting derivatives may further limit or raise the cost, or increase the credit support required to hedge. This funding requirement may limit the level of commodity price risk management that we are prudently able to complete. In addition, we are unlikely to hedge undeveloped reserves to the same extent that we hedge the anticipated production from proved developed reserves. If we fail to manage the commodity price risk of our production and energy prices fall, we may not be able to realize the cash flows from our assets that are currently anticipated even if we are successful in increasing the production and ultimate recovery of reserves. Periods of high cost or lack of availability of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oilfield services could adversely affect our ability to execute on a timely basis our exploration and development plans. Substantially all of our current operations are concentrated in the Gulf of Mexico region. Shortages and the high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or personnel that occur in this region from time to time could delay or adversely affect our exploration and development plans, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Periodically, as a result of increased drilling activity or a decrease in the supply of equipment, materials and services, we have experienced increases in associated costs, including those related to drilling rigs, equipment, supplies and personnel and the services and products of other vendors to the industry. Increased drilling activity in the Gulf of Mexico and in other offshore areas around the world also decreases the availability of offshore rigs in the Gulf of Mexico. As a result, costs may increase in the future and necessary equipment and services may not be available on terms acceptable to us. Redeployment of drilling rigs to areas other than the Gulf of Mexico in the wake of the Deepwater Horizon incident in April 2010, discussed below, may reduce the availability of offshore rigs, which could increase costs in future years. 35 Table of Contents Impediments to transporting our products may limit our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay our production. Our ability to market our oil and natural gas production depends on a number of factors, including the proximity of our reserves to pipelines and terminal facilities, the availability and capacity of gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities owned and operated by third parties and the availability of satisfactory oil and natural gas transportation arrangements. In deepwater operations, market access depends on the proximity of, and our ability to tie into, existing production platforms owned or operated by third parties and the ability to negotiate commercially satisfactory arrangements with the owners or operators. These facilities and systems may be shut-in due to factors outside of our control. If any of these third party services and arrangements become partially or fully unavailable, or if we are unable to secure such services and arrangements on acceptable terms, or if the gas quality specification for their pipelines or facilities changes so as to restrict our ability to transport gas on these pipelines or facilities, our production could be limited or delayed and our revenues could be adversely affected. Competition in the oil and natural gas industry is intense, which may adversely affect us. We operate in a highly competitive environment for acquiring oil and natural gas properties, marketing oil and natural gas and securing trained personnel. Many of our competitors possess and employ financial, technical and personnel resources substantially greater than ours, which can be particularly important in Gulf of Mexico activities. Those companies may be able to pay more for productive oil and natural gas properties and exploratory prospects and to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or personnel resources permit. Our ability to acquire additional prospects and to discover reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. Also, there is substantial competition for capital available for investment in the oil and natural gas industry. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring prospective reserves, developing reserves, marketing hydrocarbons, attracting and retaining quality personnel and raising additional capital. If we are unable to compete successfully in these areas in the future, our revenues and growth may be diminished or restricted. The recent explosion and sinking of the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig in the Gulf of Mexico and the resulting oil spill may significantly increase our risks, costs and delays. The recent explosion and sinking of the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig in the Gulf of Mexico and the resulting oil spill may significantly impact the risks we face. The Deepwater Horizon incident and resulting legislative, regulatory and enforcement changes, including increased tort liability, could increase our liability that may arise if any incidents occur on our offshore operations. We cannot predict the ultimate impact the Deepwater Horizon incident and resulting changes in regulation of offshore oil and natural gas operations will have on us. In response to the spill, and during a moratorium on deepwater (below 500 feet) drilling activities implemented between May 30, 2010 and October 12, 2010, the BOEMRE issued a series of NTLs and adopted changes to its regulations to impose a variety of new measures intended to help prevent a similar disaster in the future. Offshore operators, including those operating in deepwater, outer continental shelf waters and shallow waters, where we have substantial operations, must now comply with strict new safety and operating requirements. For example, before being allowed to resume drilling, outer continental shelf operators must certify compliance with all applicable operating regulations found in 30 C.F.R. Part 250, including those rules recently placed into effect, such as rules relating to well casing and cementing, blowout preventers, safety certification, emergency response, and worker training. Operators of all offshore waters also must demonstrate the availability of adequate spill response and blowout containment resources. Notwithstanding the lifting of the moratorium on October 12, 2010, we cannot predict with certainty when new permits will be granted under the 36 Table of Contents new requirements. We anticipate that there will continue to be delays in the resumption of drilling-related activities, including delays in the issuance of drilling permits, as these regulatory initiatives are fully implemented. Legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to offshore operations, which include consideration of increases in the minimum levels of demonstrated financial responsibility required to conduct exploration and production operations on the outer continental shelf and elimination of liability limitations on damages, will, if adopted, likely result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions and could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition to the new requirements recently imposed by the BOEMRE, there have been a variety of proposals to change existing laws and regulations that could materially adversely affect our operations and cause us to incur substantial costs, including by raising operating costs, increasing insurance premiums, delaying drilling operations and increasing regulatory burdens. Furthermore, such proposed changes could lead to a wide variety of other unforeseeable consequences that make operations in the Gulf of Mexico and other offshore waters more difficult, more time consuming, and more costly. For example, the U.S. Congress recently considered amendments to OPA, in response to the Deepwater Horizon incident. OPA and regulations adopted pursuant to OPA impose liabilities for and requirements related to oil spills into waters of the United States, including the outer continental shelf waters where we have substantial operations. OPA subjects operators of offshore leases and owners and operators of oil handling facilities to strict, joint and several liability for all containment and cleanup costs and certain other damages arising from an oil spill, including, but not limited to, the costs of responding to a spill, natural resource damages and economic damages suffered by persons adversely affected by the spill. The U.S. Congress has considered legislation that would eliminate existing liability caps for damages under OPA. OPA also requires owners and operators of offshore oil production facilities to establish and maintain evidence of financial responsibility to cover costs that could be incurred in responding to an oil spill. OPA currently requires a minimum financial responsibility demonstration of $35.0 million for companies operating in offshore waters, although the Secretary of Interior may increase this amount up to $150.0 million in certain situations. Congress considered one proposed bill with regard to OPA that would, if adopted, impose new requirements on OCS operations, including increasing the minimum level of financial responsibility to $300.0 million. If OPA is amended to materially increase the minimum level of financial responsibility beyond current requirements, we may experience difficulty in providing financial assurances sufficient to comply with this requirement. If we are unable to provide the level of financial assurance required by OPA, we may be forced to sell our properties or operations located in offshore waters or enter into partnerships with other companies that can meet the increased financial responsibility requirement, and any such developments could have an adverse effect on the value of our offshore assets and the results of our operations. We cannot predict at this time whether OPA will be amended or whether the level of financial responsibility required for companies operating in offshore waters will be increased. We do not know how the ongoing reorganization of the BOEMRE will impact potential future regulations or enforcement that may affect our operations. On May 19, 2010, the U.S. Department of the Interior announced that it would reorganize the Minerals Management Service by dividing its offshore oil and gas responsibilities among three separate agencies. Shortly thereafter, on June 18, 2010, the Minerals Management Service was renamed the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement, or BOEMRE. The BOEMRE currently regulates offshore operations, including engineering and construction specifications for production facilities, safety procedures, plugging and abandonment of wells on the Gulf of Mexico shelf and removal of facilities. On October 1, 2010, the first phase of reorganization took place when the revenue collection arm of the former Mineral Management Service became the Office of Natural Resources Revenue. On January 19, 2011, the U.S. Department of the Interior announced the structures and responsibilities of the two remaining agencies, with the reorganization of the BOEMRE into these agencies to be completed by October 1, 2011. Interior will create the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, which will have responsibility for leasing and environmental studies, and the Bureau of 37 Table of Contents Safety and Environmental Enforcement, which will have responsibility for field operations, including inspections, regulatory compliance, and oil spill response. Once the reorganization is completed, the BOEMRE will cease to exist. At this time, we cannot predict the impact that this reorganization, or future regulations or enforcement actions taken by the new agencies, may have on our operations. We may need to obtain bonds or other surety in order to maintain compliance with regulations promulgated by the BOEMRE, which, if required, could be costly and reduce borrowings available under our new credit facility or any other credit facilities we may enter into in the future. The BOEMRE regulations with respect to offshore operations govern, among other things, engineering and construction specifications for production facilities, safety procedures, plugging and abandonment of wells on the outer continental shelf of the Gulf of Mexico and removal of facilities. The BOEMRE generally requires that lessees have substantial net worth or post bonds or other acceptable assurances so that the various obligations of lessees on the Gulf of Mexico shelf will be met. While we believe that we are currently exempt from the supplemental bonding requirements of the BOEMRE, the BOEMRE could re-evaluate our plugging obligations and increase them which could cause us to lose our exemption. The cost of these bonds or other surety could be substantial and there is no assurance that bonds or other surety could be obtained in all cases. In addition, we may be required to provide letters of credit to support the issuance of these bonds or other surety. Such letters of credit would likely be issued under our new credit facility or another credit facility we may enter into in the future and would reduce the amount of borrowings available under such facility in the amount of any such letter of credit obligations. The cost of compliance with these supplemental bonding requirements could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. We are subject to extensive governmental laws and regulations, including environmental regulations and permit requirements, that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business and could result in restrictions on our operations or civil or criminal liability. Our exploration, development and production operations, our activities in connection with storage and transportation of oil and other hydrocarbons and our use of facilities for treating, processing or otherwise handling hydrocarbons and related wastes are subject to various federal, state and local laws, orders and regulations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal fines and penalties or the imposition of injunctive relief. The construction and operation of our projects also require numerous permits and approvals from governmental agencies. If we are unable to acquire or renew permits and approvals required for operations, we may be forced to suspend or cease operations altogether. We may not be able to obtain all necessary permits and approvals, and as a result our operations may be adversely affected. In addition, obtaining all necessary permits and approvals may necessitate substantial expenditures and may create a risk of expensive delays or loss of value if a project is unable to proceed as planned due to changing requirements or local opposition. Future compliance with laws and regulations, including environmental, production, transportation, sales, rate and tax rules and regulations, and any changes to such laws or regulations, may reduce our profitability and have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity and cash flows. Such laws and regulations may require more stringent and costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements. See “Business—Environmental Matters.” The adoption of pending climate change legislation could result in increased operating costs, create delays in our obtaining air pollution permits for new or modified facilities, and reduce demand for the crude oil and natural gas we produce. There are state, national and international efforts to regulate the emission of greenhouse gases including, most significantly, carbon dioxide. The U.S. Congress has considered legislation that seeks to control or reduce emissions of greenhouse gases from a variety of sources. In addition, several states have already taken legal 38 Table of Contents measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, primarily through the planned development of greenhouse gas emission inventories or regional cap-and-trade programs. It is uncertain at this time whether, and in what form, climate change legislation will ultimately be adopted in the United States. The EPA has started to implement regulations pertaining to greenhouse gas emissions. In 2009, the EPA issued a finding under section 202(a) of the Clean Air Act, concluding that greenhouse gas pollution endangers the public health and welfare of current and future generations and the EPA finalized a greenhouse gas emission standard for mobile sources. On September 22, 2009, the EPA finalized a greenhouse gas reporting rule that requires large sources of greenhouse gas emissions to monitor, maintain records on and annually report their greenhouse gas emissions. On November 8, 2010, the EPA also issued greenhouse gas monitoring and reporting regulations specifically for petroleum and natural gas facilities, including offshore petroleum and natural gas production facilities that emit 25,000 metric tons or more of carbon dioxide equivalent per year. The rule, which went into effect on December 30, 2010, requires reporting of greenhouse gas emissions by regulated facilities to the EPA by March 2012 for emissions during 2011 and annually thereafter. The EPA issued a final rule that makes certain stationary sources and modification projects subject to permitting requirements for greenhouse gas emissions, beginning in 2011, under the Clean Air Act. Several of the EPA’s greenhouse gas rules are being challenged in pending court proceedings and, depending on the outcome of such proceedings, such rules may be modified or rescinded or the EPA could develop new rules. Legislation or regulations that may be adopted to address climate change could also affect the markets for our products by making our products more or less desirable than competing sources of energy. To the extent that our products are competing with higher greenhouse gas emitting energy sources such as coal, our products would become more desirable in the market with more stringent limitations on greenhouse gas emissions. To the extent that our products are competing with lower greenhouse gas emitting energy sources such as solar and wind, our products would become less desirable in the market with more stringent limitations on greenhouse gas emissions. We cannot predict with any certainty at this time how these possibilities may affect our operations. A change in the jurisdictional characterization of some of our assets by federal, state or local regulatory agencies or a change in policy by those agencies may result in increased regulation of our assets, which may cause our revenues to decline and operating expenses to increase. Our operations are generally exempt from regulation by the FERC, but FERC regulations still affect our non-FERC jurisdictional businesses and the markets for products derived from these businesses. The FERC issued Order 704, which requires certain participants in the natural gas market, including interstate and intrastate pipelines, natural gas gatherers, natural gas marketers, and natural gas processors that engage in a minimum level of natural gas sales or purchases, to submit annual reports regarding those transactions. Other FERC regulations may indirectly impact our businesses and the markets for products derived from these businesses. The FERC’s policies and practices across the range of its natural gas regulatory activities, including, for example, its policies on open access transportation, gas quality, ratemaking, capacity release and market center promotion, may indirectly affect the intrastate natural gas market. In recent years, the FERC has pursued pro-competitive policies in its regulation of interstate natural gas pipelines. However, we cannot assure you that the FERC will continue this approach as it considers matters such as pipeline rates and rules and policies that may affect rights of access to transportation capacity. Section 1(b) of the NGA exempts natural gas gathering facilities from regulation by the FERC as a natural gas company. We believe that our natural gas gathering facilities meet the traditional tests the FERC has used to establish a pipeline’s status as a gatherer not subject to regulation as a natural gas company. However, the distinction between FERC-regulated transmission facilities and federally unregulated gathering facilities is the subject of on-going litigation, so the classification and regulation of our gathering facilities are subject to change based on future determinations by the FERC or the courts. 39 Table of Contents In addition, the courts have determined that certain pipelines that would otherwise be subject to the ICA are exempt from regulation by the FERC under the ICA as proprietary lines. The classification of a line as a proprietary line is a fact-based determination subject to FERC and court review. Accordingly, the classification and regulation of some of our gathering facilities and transportation pipelines may be subject to change based on future determinations by the FERC or the courts. The BOEMRE has communicated that it will commence more stringent enforcement of requirements to decommission facilities that pose a hazard to safety or the environment or are not useful for lease operations and are not capable of oil and natural gas production in “paying quantities.” Historically, the BOEMRE granted approval to operators to maintain such facilities in order to conduct other future activities. However, we expect that this practice will be more limited in the future. The BOEMRE has stated that these measures are in response to recent hurricane seasons in which idle structures were damaged or destroyed. We recently responded to a BOEMRE written request to review and evaluate our inventory of non-producing wells and facilities to determine the future utility of these structures and the level of threat posed to the environment and human safety in the event of a “catastrophic loss.” As a result, we periodically review our plans with the BOEMRE to perform wellbore plugging and abandonment and decommissioning work on certain facilities and structures in our East Bay field. The BOEMRE and other regulatory bodies, including those regulating the decommissioning of our pipelines and facilities under the jurisdiction of the state of Louisiana, may change their requirements or enforce requirements in a manner inconsistent with our expectations, which could materially increase the cost of such activities and/or accelerate the timing of cash expenditures and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The failure to comply with these rules and regulations can result in substantial penalties, including lease termination in the case of federal leases. The regulatory burden on the oil and natural gas industry increases our cost of doing business and, consequently, affects our profitability. Our competitors in the oil and natural gas industry are subject to the same regulatory requirements and restrictions that affect our operations, though the impact of those requirements may vary significantly based on the nature and location of operations and related pipelines and facilities. Should we fail to comply with all applicable FERC administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines. Under the EPAct of 2005, the FERC has civil penalty authority under the NGA to impose penalties for current violations of up to $1.0 million per day for each violation and disgorgement of profits associated with any violation. While our systems have traditionally not been subject to full FERC regulation, the FERC’s civil penalty authority may apply to a broad range of market participants that have not historically been subject to its regulations. In addition, FERC has adopted regulations that may subject certain of our otherwise non-FERC jurisdictional facilities to annual reporting requirements. Additional rules and regulations that impact our facilities and operations may be considered or adopted by the FERC from time to time. Failure to comply with those regulations in the future could subject us to civil penalty liability. Our sales of oil and natural gas, and any hedging activities related to such energy commodities, expose us to potential regulatory risks. The FERC, the Federal Trade Commission and the CFTC, hold statutory authority to monitor certain segments of the physical and futures energy commodities markets relevant to our business. These agencies have imposed broad regulations prohibiting fraud and manipulation of such markets. With regard to our physical sales of oil and natural gas, and any hedging activities related to these energy commodities, we are required to observe the market-related regulations enforced by these agencies, which hold substantial enforcement authority. 40 Table of Contents Failure to comply with such regulations, as interpreted and enforced, could materially and adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. The adoption of derivatives legislation by Congress could have an adverse impact on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business. The U.S. Congress recently adopted comprehensive financial reform legislation that establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as us, that participate in that market. The new legislation was signed into law by the President on July 21, 2010, and requires the CFTC and the SEC to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the new legislation within 360 days from the date of enactment. The CFTC has also proposed regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets, although it is not possible at this time to predict whether or when the CFTC will adopt those rules or include comparable provisions in its rulemaking under the new legislation. The financial reform legislation may also require us to comply with margin requirements and with certain clearing and trade-execution requirements in connection with our derivative activities, although the application of those provisions to us is uncertain at this time. The financial reform legislation may also require the counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty. The new legislation and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts, and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Finally, the legislation was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the legislation and regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material effect on our financial condition and our results of operations. The proposed U.S. federal budget for fiscal year 2011 includes certain provisions that, if passed as originally submitted, will have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. On February 1, 2010, the Obama administration released its proposed federal budget for fiscal year 2011. The proposed budget would repeal many tax incentives and deductions that are currently used by U.S. oil and gas companies and impose new taxes. The provisions include: elimination of the ability to fully deduct intangible drilling costs in the year incurred; increases in the taxation of foreign source income; levy of an excise tax on Gulf of Mexico oil and gas production; repeal of the manufacturing tax deduction for oil and gas companies; increase in the geological and geophysical amortization period for independent producers; and implementation of a fee on non-producing leases located on federal lands. To date, none of these proposals has been enacted. However, should any of these proposals be enacted, our taxes may increase, potentially significantly, which would have a negative impact on our net income and cash flows. This could also reduce our drilling activities. Since none of these proposals has yet been voted on or become law, we do not know the ultimate impact any of these proposals may have on our business. Terrorist attacks aimed at our facilities could adversely affect our business. Since the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, the U.S. government has issued warnings that U.S. energy assets may be the future targets of terrorist organizations. These developments have subjected our operations to increased risks. Any future terrorist attack at our facilities, or those of our customers, could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and operations. 41 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 