Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Energy Partners, Ltd. We are currently in proceedings under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. There is no guarantee that we will successfully emerge from bankruptcy. As part of our bankruptcy proceedings we are negotiating the Exit Facility but there is no guarantee that we will be able to successfully close the Exit Facility. If we are unable to successfully complete the Chapter 11 proceedings or close the Exit Facility, we may be forced to liquidate. We are currently in proceedings under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. While the Plan was approved by the Bankruptcy Court on August 3, 2009, our emergence from bankruptcy is subject to several conditions, including the successful closing of the Exit Facility, and there is no guarantee that we will successfully emerge from bankruptcy. We cannot predict the timing of the Chapter 11 proceedings and undue delays in the proceedings may disrupt our operations. If we are unable to complete the Chapter 11 proceedings in a timely manner, we may be required to liquidate. One of the conditions to effectiveness of the Plan is the closing of the Exit Facility. We must obtain, consummate and close the Exit Facility in order to emerge from bankruptcy. If we are unable to successfully negotiate definitive documentation for the Exit Facility or unable to satisfy the conditions to closing of the Exit Facility, we would be unable to consummate the Plan and may consequently have to liquidate. Under the Confirmation Order, if we are unable to successfully comply with all conditions to the Plan by the later of (1) September 10, 2009, (2) September 25, 2009, with our approval and the approval of the Majority Consenting Holders (as defined below), or (3) any later date approved by the Bankruptcy Court, the Confirmation Order will be vacated and we will not be able to proceed with the execution of the Plan, as planned. We faced significant liquidity challenges in 2009 that led to our Chapter 11 filings and could have ongoing material and adverse effects on our business operations even after we emerge from bankruptcy. Largely as a result of the shut-in of a significant amount of our production from September 2008 into early 2009 following Hurricanes Ike and Gustav, and the dramatic decline in oil and natural gas prices that started in the third quarter of 2008, we face significant liquidity challenges, which led to our Chapter 11 filings. Many current economic forecasts portray a dismal outlook for the oil and natural gas exploration and development business for at least a significant portion of 2009 due to low and volatile oil and natural gas prices, coupled with a global recession that is projected to be long and severe. If prices continue at the current low levels, our anticipated investment will not be adequate to maintain our current production levels and we expect our production to decline significantly during the second half of 2009 due primarily to natural reservoir declines combined with minimal investment in reserve replacement activities. At our current and anticipated production levels, combined with the current and expected lower prices, we do not expect to have sufficient cash flows to fund our operations and meet our 2009 financial obligations as they existed prior to the filing of the Chapter 11 Cases. As a result, we will continue to experience a decline in our revenues and available capital, which will substantially decrease our capital expenditures, drilling activities and operations. Even if we successfully enter into the Exit Facility and emerge from bankruptcy, we will continue to have substantial capital needs which may not be available in the future. Assuming the Exit Facility is available and we successfully emerge from bankruptcy, we will continue to have substantial capital requirements to fund our business. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to meet our debt payment obligations, which cash flows will be subject to a range of economic, competitive and business risk factors. Additionally, the amounts available under the Exit Facility may not be sufficient for our capital requirements and we may not be able to access additional financing resources due to a variety of reasons, including restrictive covenants in the Exit Facility and the lack of available capital due to the tightening of the global credit markets. If we are unable to make scheduled payments on the Exit Facility, or if our financing requirements are not met by the Exit Facility and we are unable to access additional financing, our business, operations, financial condition and cash flows will be negatively impacted. 19 Table of Contents No established trading market exists for the common stock we anticipate issuing upon our emergence from bankruptcy, and if one develops, it may not be liquid. No established trading market exists for the common stock we anticipate issuing upon our emergence from bankruptcy, and there is no assurance that any active trading market will develop for it. Our existing common stock has been delisted from the NYSE. Upon or as soon as practicable following our emergence from bankruptcy, we intend to apply for the listing of our new common stock on the NYSE or another national stock exchange, such as the Nasdaq, assuming we satisfy the applicable listing criteria. There is no assurance that the NYSE or any other national exchange will approve our new common stock for listing as there is no assurance that we will satisfy the criteria for listing, or be approved for listing, on the NYSE or another national stock exchange. Failure to list our new common stock will negatively affect the ability of our shareholders to sell their shares. We do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate paying any dividends in the foreseeable future. In addition, the covenants in certain debt instruments to which we anticipate being a party, including the Exit Facility, will likely place restrictions or conditions on our ability to pay dividends. Certain institutional investors may only invest in dividend-paying equity securities or may operate under other restrictions that may prohibit or limit their ability to invest in us. Failure to maintain compliance with the listing standards of the NYSE has resulted in the delisting of our common stock. On March 24, 2009, NYSE Regulation, Inc. provided us with a written notice that trading of our common stock would be suspended from trading prior to the NYSE’s opening on March 30, 2009. The notice stated that we were not in compliance with NYSE’s continued listing standards, which currently require a company with common stock listed on the NYSE to maintain an average global market capitalization of not less than $15.0 million over a consecutive 30 trading-day period. The NYSE suspended trading of our common stock prior to the market opening on March 30, 2009. On April 15, 2009, the NYSE filed a Form 25 with the SEC notifying the SEC of the delisting of our common stock, which became effective on April 27, 2009. Our common stock is being quoted for public trading on the Pink Sheets quotations system, an over-the-counter market, under the symbol ERPLQ.PK. Recently, our common stock has traded at low prices and we have experienced a significant decline in market capitalization. Delisting from the NYSE could continue to adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, significantly limit the liquidity of our common stock and impair our ability to raise additional equity financing. The limitations on trading possibilities for our investors resulting from our delisting from a national exchange may further negatively impact the liquidity of our stock. Under the terms of the Plan, each holder of (1) our Senior Unsecured Notes and our 8.75% Senior Notes due 2010 would receive, in exchange for their total claim (including principal and interest), their pro rata share of 95% and (2) each holder of our common stock interests would receive, in exchange for their total claim, their pro rata share of 5% of our common stock to be issued pursuant to the Plan upon our emergence from bankruptcy. Following the reorganization, the sole equity interests in the reorganized company would consist of (1) new EPL common stock issued to the holders of the Senior Unsecured Notes, the 8.75% Senior Notes due 2010, and the holders of common stock, (2) restricted new EPL common stock issued to certain members of management of the reorganized company, if any, and (3) new EPL stock options to be issued to certain key employees pursuant to the 2009 Long Term Incentive Plan, if any, which would be exercisable for new EPL common stock. Collectively, the restricted new EPL common stock issued pursuant to subparagraph (2) and the shares reserved for the exercise of new EPL stock options pursuant to subparagraph (3) above would in no event exceed 3% of the new EPL common stock on a fully diluted basis. Our credit ratings have been reduced and withdrawn and failure to regain and improve our credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our business. Moody’s Investors Service recently downgraded each of our Corporate Family Rating, Probability of Default Rating and our Senior Unsecured Notes Rating to “default” levels or equivalent and announced that it 20 Table of Contents would withdraw its ratings due to the Chapter 11 proceedings. The decline and withdrawal of our credit ratings reflects concerns over our financial strength. Our current credit ratings status reduces our access to the debt markets and will unfavorably impact our overall cost of borrowing. The MMS may shut in production on the outer shelf in connection with our failure to provide cash or other adequate security to secure our obligations to plug, abandon and decommission our wellbores and related pipelines and facilities. Most of our offshore operations are conducted on federal leases that are administered by the MMS and we are required to comply with the regulations and orders promulgated by the MMS under OCSLA. Among other things, MMS regulations establish construction and safety requirements for production facilities located on our federal offshore leases and govern the plugging and abandonment of wells and the operation, maintenance, and removal of production facilities from these leases. On March 5, 2009, we were notified by the MMS that an Incident of Noncompliance (“INC”) had been issued as a result of our failure to provide supplemental bonds or other security in the amount of $16.7 million that was due by February 27, 2009 to guarantee performance of our obligations to abandon wells, remove platforms and facilities, and clear the seafloor of obstructions on leases with associated lease obligations. The INC stated that our failure to correct this INC by the close of business on March 27, 2009 would result in a shut-in of our outer continental shelf facilities associated with South Pass Block 27 and South Pass Block 28 that are located in federal waters, which payment we informed the MMS we could not make by the March 27 deadline. We received an order from the MMS dated March 23, 2009. The March 23, 2009, order required, among other financial requirements, that we immediately shut-in production from all of our wells and facilities located in South Pass Blocks 27 and 28 in the federal portion of our East Bay field, while properly maintaining these facilities and wells with essential personnel. We promptly completed the shut-in of our federal East Bay facilities before the end of March 2009. Because federal leases would normally terminate if there is no production for 180 consecutive days, the affected leases could expire if (1) we do not comply with the requirements set forth by applicable MMS regulations and restore production to the shut-in federal leases by September 17, 2009; (2) we and the MMS do not otherwise come to an agreement that would prevent the leases from expiring on such date; or (3) there is no unitized production that would prevent the termination provisions in the affected leases from being triggered. The federal East Bay leases are included in production unit(s) covering portions of those leases and state leases in the East Bay field that continue to produce, which we believe may prevent the triggering of lease termination, although there is no assurance that this will be the case. The continued shut down of these facilities and, should it occur, the resulting termination of the related leases would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The production of oil and natural gas is subject to regulation under a wide range of local, state and federal statutes, rules, orders and regulations which are addressed under Part I, Item 1, “Business—Environmental Regulations” in this Annual Report. We have been requested to provide additional reserves with respect to our outstanding surety bonds. In December 2008 and the first quarter of 2009 we posted cash collateral to restricted accounts for the benefit of two of our indemnity companies totaling $5.7 million in response to requests by them to provide reserves against our surety bonds with them. Our agreements with these indemnity companies allow them to demand cash reserves or letters of credit to support our outstanding surety bonds. As of July 1, 2009, we had outstanding $60.0 million in surety bonds with four different indemnity companies. During 2009, our indemnity companies have requested additional reserves with respect to these outstanding surety bonds, and we do not have the cash or borrowing capacity to comply with these requests. As a result, we will default on some or all of these agreements and the indemnity companies may cancel our surety bonds. The cancelation of some or all of our surety bonds may result in violations of other agreements or obligations. As a result, we could be forced to shut in our production or lose our ability to continue to perform our business operations. 21 Table of Contents Our current financial condition has adversely affected our business operations and our business prospects. Our current financial condition and resulting uncertainty have been disruptive to our business. Management has devoted substantial time and attention to improving our financial condition, thereby reducing its focus on operating the business. In addition, as a result of the uncertainties related to our current financial condition, we have lost 39 employees through lay-offs and voluntary departures during the first half of 2009. These employee losses may negatively impact employee morale and productivity and continue to cause voluntary employee resignations. Further, our current financial condition and resulting uncertainty may cause operating partners to terminate their relationships with us or to tighten credit. These developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our asset carrying values have been impaired based, in part, on oil and natural gas prices as of December 31, 2008 and they may be further impaired if oil and gas prices continue to decline from prices in effect as of that date. The substantial decline in oil and gas prices and reduced capital spending on certain fields based on this lower price environment in 2008 and continuing in 2009 has impacted the estimated net cash flows from our oil and natural gas reserves, which estimates are used to determine impairments of our oil and natural gas properties. As a result of the decline in oil and gas prices, we have revised our estimated reserves downward and have significantly reduced our estimated future cash flows. Based in part on our 2008 year-end estimates of proved reserves, we recorded a non-cash pre-tax impairment charge of $108.6 million in the fourth quarter of 2008. We may be required to recognize additional non-cash pre-tax impairment charges in future reporting periods if market prices for oil or natural gas continue to decline or based on other factors, including our ability to fund capital expenditures required to maintain our oil and natural gas reserves. Our current operations are concentrated in the Gulf of Mexico, and a significant part of the value of our production and reserves is concentrated in two geographic areas. Because of this concentration, any production problems or inaccuracies in reserve estimates related to these areas could have a material adverse effect on our business. All of our current operations are concentrated in the Gulf of Mexico region. We are more vulnerable to operational, regulatory and other risks associated with the Gulf of Mexico, including the risk of adverse weather conditions, than many of our competitors that are more geographically diversified because all or a substantial portion of our operations could experience the same condition at the same time. During 2008, 46% of our net daily production came from our Greater Bay Marchand properties and approximately 43% of our proved reserves were located in the fields that comprise this area. In addition, 21% of our net daily production came from our East Bay field and approximately 37% of our proved reserves were located on this property. If the actual reserves associated with these two properties are less than our estimated reserves, such a reduction of reserves could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. During the 2008 hurricane season, our production was reduced by approximately 21%, on an annual basis, as a result of damage to third party pipelines caused by two hurricanes. The damage limited our ability to sell our production from certain properties for extended periods of time during the third and fourth quarters of 2008. If mechanical problems, storms or other events were to curtail a substantial portion of the production in these areas, such a curtailment could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The relatively steep decline curves generally associated with oil and gas properties located in the Gulf of Mexico and the Gulf Coast region subjects us to higher reserve replacement needs. Producing oil and natural gas reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. High initial production rates generally result in recovery of a relatively higher percentage of reserves from properties during the initial few years of production, often followed by a rapid decline in the rate of production. 22 Table of Contents Because primarily all of our operations are concentrated in the Gulf of Mexico and production from reservoirs in the Gulf of Mexico region generally declines more rapidly compared to reservoirs in many other producing regions of the world, our reserve replacement needs are relatively greater than those of producers with reserves outside the Gulf of Mexico region. As of December 31, 2008, our independent petroleum engineers estimate that, on average, 65% of our total proved reserves will be produced within five years. We may not be able to develop, exploit, find or acquire additional reserves to sustain our current production levels or to grow our production. In addition, we have substantially cut our planned capital expenditures for 2009 in order to conserve cash resources, which will likely negatively impact our ability to replace existing reserves lost as a result of production. There can be no assurance that we will be able to grow production at rates we have experienced in the past. Our future oil and natural gas reserves and production, results of operations and cash flows are highly dependent on our ability to efficiently develop and exploit our current reserves and economically find or acquire additional recoverable reserves. Our exploration, exploitation and production operations in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico area present unique operating risks. The deepwater Gulf of Mexico area is an area that has had relatively limited drilling activity due to risks associated with geological complexity, water depth and higher drilling and development costs, which could result in substantial cost overruns and/or uneconomic projects or wells, including: • an extended length of time between drilling and first production as compared to typical shallow to moderate-water depth projects; • drilling that requires specific types of rigs with significantly higher day rates and limited availability as compared to the rigs used in shallow water; • more costly consequences of mechanical failure because of the equipment required to operate at the water depths and adverse conditions found in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico area; • mechanical risks because the wellhead equipment is installed on the sea floor; • many reservoirs are sub-salt and are more difficult to detect with traditional seismic processing; and • larger installation equipment, sophisticated sea floor production handling equipment, expensive, state-of-the-art platforms and/or infrastructure investment. Because we have exploration, exploitation and production operations in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico area, we are exposed to these risks. Furthermore, because of the generally higher expense of drilling wells in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico area, if such wells are economically unsuccessful, they may have a larger impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows than wells that we drill in shallow water. Properties we have acquired may not produce as projected, and we may not have fully identified liabilities associated with these properties or obtained adequate protection from sellers against liabilities. In the past, we acquired producing properties from third parties, and these acquisitions required assessments of many factors, which are inherently inexact and may be inaccurate, including: • the amount of recoverable reserves and the rates at which those reserves will be produced; • future oil and natural gas prices; • estimates of operating costs; • estimates of future development costs; • estimates of the costs and timing of plugging and abandonment activities; and • potential environmental and other liabilities. 23 Table of Contents Our assessments may not have revealed all existing or potential problems, nor permitted us to become adequately familiar with the properties to evaluate fully their deficiencies and capabilities. In the course of our due diligence, we may not have inspected every well, platform or pipeline. Our inspections may not have identified structural and environmental problems, such as pipeline corrosion or groundwater contamination. We may not have obtained contractual indemnities from the seller for liabilities that it created. We may have assumed the risk of the physical condition of the properties in addition to the risk that the properties may not perform in accordance with our expectations. Periods of high cost or lack of availability of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oilfield services could adversely affect our ability to execute on a timely basis our exploration and development plans. Substantially all of our current operations are concentrated in the Gulf of Mexico region. Shortages and the high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or personnel that occur in this region from time to time could delay or adversely affect our exploration and development plans, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Periodically, as a result of increased drilling activity or a decrease in the supply of equipment, materials and services, we have experienced increases in associated costs, including those related to drilling rigs, equipment, supplies and personnel and the services and products of other vendors to the industry. Increased drilling activity in the Gulf of Mexico and in other offshore areas around the world also decreases the availability of offshore rigs in the Gulf of Mexico. As a result, costs may increase in the future and necessary equipment and services may not be available on terms acceptable to us. Loss of key management and failure to attract qualified management could negatively impact our operations. Successfully implementing our strategies will depend, in part, on our management team. The loss of members of our management team could have an adverse effect on our business. Provisions in our organizational documents and under Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. The existence of some provisions in our organizational documents and under Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. The provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws that could delay or prevent an unsolicited change in control of our company include: • the board of directors’ ability to issue shares of preferred stock and determine the terms of the preferred stock without approval of common stockholders; and • a prohibition on the right of stockholders to call meetings and a limitation on the right of stockholders to present proposals or make nominations at stockholder meetings. In addition, Delaware law imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. Risks Relating to the Oil and Natural Gas Industry Exploring for and producing oil and natural gas are high-risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our future success will depend on the success of our exploration and production activities. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to numerous risks beyond our control, including the risk that drilling will not result in commercially viable oil or natural gas production. Our decisions to purchase, explore, develop or otherwise exploit prospects or properties will depend in part on the evaluation of data 24 Table of Contents obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. Our cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain before drilling commences. Overruns in planned expenditures are common risks that can make a particular project uneconomical. Further, many factors may curtail, delay or cancel drilling activity, including the following: • pressure or irregularities in geological formations; • shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment and qualified personnel; • equipment failures or accidents; • adverse weather conditions, such as hurricanes and tropical storms; • reductions in oil and natural gas prices; • title problems; • limitations in the market for oil and natural gas; and • cost of services to drill wells. The continuing crisis in the financial and credit markets, and volatility in oil and natural gas prices may affect our ability to obtain funding or to obtain funding on acceptable terms. These factors may hinder or prevent us from meeting our future capital needs and/or continuing to meet our obligations and conduct our business. Global financial markets and economic conditions have recently been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile. The debt and equity capital markets have become exceedingly distressed. These issues, along with significant asset write-offs in the financial services sector, the re-pricing of credit risk and the current weak economic conditions, have made, and will likely continue to make, it difficult to obtain debt or equity capital funding. Due to these factors, there can be no assurance that funding will be available to us if needed, and to the extent required, on acceptable terms. If funding is not available as needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to meet our obligations as they come due, implement our exploratory and development plan, enhance our existing business, complete acquisitions or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities, or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our production, revenues, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. A substantial or extended decline in oil and natural gas prices may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and our ability to meet our debt obligations, operating cost requirements, capital expenditure requirements and other financial commitments. The price we receive for our oil and natural gas production heavily influences our revenue, profitability, financial condition, cash flow, access to capital and future rate of growth. Oil and natural gas are commodities and, as a result, their prices are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand. Historically, the markets for oil and natural gas have been volatile. These markets will likely continue to be volatile in the future. The prices we receive for our production and the levels of our production depend on numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include: • changes in the global supply, demand and inventories of oil; • domestic natural gas supply, demand and inventories; • the actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries; • the price and quantity of foreign imports of oil; 25 Table of Contents • the price and availability of liquefied natural gas imports; • political conditions, including embargoes, in or effecting other oil-producing countries; • economic and energy infrastructure disruptions caused by actual or threatened acts of war, or terrorist activities, or national security measures deployed to protect the United States from such actual or threatened acts or activities; • economic stability of major oil and natural gas companies and the interdependence of oil and natural gas and energy trading companies; • the level of worldwide oil and natural gas exploration and production activity; • weather conditions, including energy infrastructure disruptions resulting from those conditions; • technological advances effecting energy consumption; and • the price and availability of alternative fuels. In addition to decreasing our revenues and cash flows on a per unit basis, lower oil and natural gas prices may reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically. We may incur substantial losses and be subject to substantial liability claims as a result of our oil and natural gas operations. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient or may not be available to cover some of these losses and claims. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured and underinsured events could materially and adversely effect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to all of the operating risks associated with drilling for and producing oil and natural gas, including the possibility of: • environmental hazards, such as uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, brine, well fluids, toxic gas or other pollution into the environment, including groundwater and shoreline contamination; • abnormally pressured formations; • mechanical difficulties; • fires and explosions; • personal injuries and death; and • natural disasters, especially hurricanes and tropical storms in the Gulf of Mexico region. Offshore operations are also subject to a variety of operating risks unique to the marine environment, such as capsizing, collisions and damage or loss from hurricanes, tropical storms or other adverse weather conditions. These conditions can cause substantial damage to facilities and interrupt production. Any of these risks could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations or result in substantial losses. We maintain insurance at levels that we believe are consistent with industry practices and our particular needs, but we are not fully insured against all risks. We may elect not to obtain insurance for certain risks or to limit levels of coverage if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks involved. In this regard, the cost of available coverage has increased significantly as a result of losses experienced by third-party insurers in the 2005 and 2008 hurricane seasons in the Gulf of Mexico, in particular those resulting from Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005 and Gustav and Ike in 2008. We believe the cost of coverage will continue to increase and may become prohibitively expensive for smaller independent operators in the Gulf of Mexico. As a result, our coverage may be limited by longer waiting periods on business interruption insurance and higher deductibles on property damage and other types of insurance. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. If a significant accident or other event occurs and it is not fully covered by insurance, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and could reduce or eliminate the funds available for exploration, exploitation and acquisitions or result in loss of equipment and properties. 26 Table of Contents Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and estimated values of our reserves. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex, requiring interpretations of available technical data and many assumptions, including assumptions relating to economic factors. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves disclosed in this Annual Report. Estimates of oil and natural gas reserves are inherently imprecise. The preparation of our reserve estimates requires projections of production rates and timing of development expenditures, analysis of available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data, and assumptions about oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, drilling and operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves will vary from our estimates. The present value of future net revenues from our proved reserves and the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows referred to in this Annual Report should not be assumed to represent or approximate the current market value of our estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves are computed based on prices and costs as of the date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in our reserve estimates. If our estimates of the recoverable reserve volumes on a property are revised downward, or if development costs exceed previous estimates, or if commodity prices decrease, as discussed elsewhere in these risk factors, we may be required to record an impairment to our property and equipment, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Once recorded, an impairment of property and equipment may not be reversed at a later date. Our ability to obtain financing depends in part on our estimate of the proved oil and natural gas reserves for properties that will serve as collateral. If proved reserves on a property are revised downward, our ability to acquire adequate funding may be significantly reduced. If we are unable to replace the reserves that we have produced, our reserves and revenues will decline. Our future success depends on our ability to find, develop, acquire and produce oil and natural gas reserves that are economically recoverable. Lower commodity prices and increased costs associated with exploration and production may lower the threshold of economic recoverability. Additionally, we have substantially cut our planned capital expenditures for 2009 in order to conserve cash resources, which will likely negatively impact our ability to replace existing reserves produced. Without continued successful acquisition or exploration activities, our reserves and revenues will decline as a result of our current reserves being depleted by production. We may not be able to find or acquire additional reserves on an economic basis. Our business requires substantial capital investment and maintenance expenditures, and our capital resources may not be adequate to provide for all of our cash requirements. Our operations are capital intensive. Our ability to replace our oil and natural gas production and maintain our production levels and reserves requires extensive capital investment. Our business also requires substantial expenditures for routine maintenance. We may not have access to the capital required to maintain our production levels and reserves. Impediments to transporting our products may limit our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay our production. Our ability to market our oil and natural gas production depends on a number of factors, including the proximity of our reserves to pipelines and terminal facilities, the availability and capacity of gathering systems, 27 Table of Contents pipelines and processing facilities owned and operated by third parties and the availability of satisfactory oil and natural gas transportation arrangements. These facilities and systems may be shut-in due to factors outside of our control. If any of these third party services and arrangements become partially or fully unavailable, or if we are unable to secure such services and arrangements on acceptable terms, our production could be limited or delayed and our revenues could be adversely affected. Our ability to collect payments from our partners depends on the partners’ creditworthiness. In operating our oil and natural gas properties, we typically incur costs on behalf of our partners in advance of billing and collecting our partners’ share of those costs. Some of our partners are highly leveraged and may become unable to pay us for their share of the operating costs. Further, a significant adverse change in the financial and/or credit position of a partner could require us to assume greater credit risk relating to that partner and could limit our ability to collect joint interest receivables. Failure to receive payments from our partners for their share of costs incurred on our oil and natural gas properties could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We are exposed to counterparty risk through our hedging activities using commodity derivative instruments and through other arrangements we enter into with financial and other institutions. We have entered into transactions with counterparties such as commercial banks, investment banks, insurance companies, and other financial institutions. These transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of any of these counterparties. Continued deterioration in the credit markets may impact the credit ratings of our current and potential counterparties and affect their ability to fulfill their existing obligations to us and their willingness to enter into future transactions with us. When we have oil and natural gas derivative contracts outstanding, we have exposure to these financial institutions related to such contracts, which may protect a portion of our cash flows when commodity prices decline. During periods of low oil and natural gas prices, we may have heightened counterparty risk associated with these derivative contracts because the value of our derivative positions may provide a significant amount of cash flow. If a hedging counterparty defaults on its obligations, we may not realize the benefit of some or all of our derivative instruments. We also maintain insurance policies with insurance companies to protect us against certain risks inherent in our business. If an insurer defaults on its obligation to us, we may not be reimbursed for losses we have insured against. In addition, if any lender under our credit facility is unable to fund its commitment, our liquidity may be reduced by an amount up to the aggregate amount of such lender’s commitment under our credit facility. We are subject to extensive governmental laws and regulations, including environmental regulations, which can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business and could result in restrictions on our operations or civil or criminal liability. Our exploration, development and production operations, our activities in connection with storage and transportation of oil and other hydrocarbons and our use of facilities for treating, processing or otherwise handling hydrocarbons and related wastes are subject to various federal, state and local laws, orders and regulations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal fines and penalties or the imposition of injunctive relief. Future compliance with laws and regulations, including environmental, production, transportation, sales, rate and tax rules and regulations, and any changes to such laws or regulations, may reduce our profitability and have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity and cash flows. Such laws and regulations may require more stringent and costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements. See Part I, Item 1, “Business—Environmental Regulations” in this Annual Report. 28 Table of Contents If third party pipelines and other facilities interconnected to our natural gas pipelines and facilities become partially or fully unavailable to transport natural gas and NGLs, our revenues could be adversely affected. We depend upon third party pipelines and other facilities that provide delivery options to and from our pipelines and facilities. Since we do not own or operate these pipelines or other facilities, their continuing operation is not within our control. If any of these third party pipelines and other facilities become partially or fully unavailable to transport natural gas and NGLs, or if the gas quality specification for their pipelines or facilities changes so as to restrict our ability to transport gas on these pipelines or facilities, our revenues could be adversely affected. A change in the jurisdictional characterization of some of our assets by federal, state or local regulatory agencies or a change in policy by those agencies may result in increased regulation of our assets, which may cause our revenues to decline and operating expenses to increase. Our operations are generally exempt from FERC regulation under the NGA, but FERC regulation still affects our non-FERC jurisdictional businesses and the markets for products derived from these businesses. The FERC has recently issued Order 704 requiring certain participants in the natural gas market, including interstate and intrastate pipelines, natural gas gatherers, natural gas marketers, and natural gas processors, that engage in a minimum level of natural gas sales or purchases to submit annual reports regarding those transactions to the FERC. Other FERC regulations may indirectly impact our businesses and the markets for products derived from these businesses. The FERC’s policies and practices across the range of its natural gas regulatory activities, including, for example, its policies on open access transportation, gas quality, ratemaking, capacity release and market center promotion, may indirectly affect the intrastate natural gas market. In recent years, the FERC has pursued pro-competitive policies in its regulation of interstate natural gas pipelines. However, we cannot assure you that the FERC will continue this approach as it considers matters such as pipeline rates and rules and policies that may affect rights of access to transportation capacity. Section 1(b) of the NGA exempts natural gas gathering facilities from regulation by the FERC as a natural gas company under the NGA. We believe that the natural gas pipelines in our gathering systems meet the traditional tests the FERC has used to establish a pipeline’s status as a gatherer not subject to regulation as a natural gas company. However, the distinction between FERC-regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services is the subject of substantial, on-going litigation, so the classification and regulation of our gathering facilities are subject to change based on future determinations by the FERC, the courts, or Congress. In addition, the courts have determined that certain pipelines that would otherwise be subject to the ICA are exempt from regulation by the FERC under the ICA as proprietary lines. The classification of a line as a proprietary line is a fact-based determination subject to FERC and court review. Accordingly, the classification and regulation of some of our gathering facilities and transportation pipelines may be subject to change based on future determinations by the FERC, the courts, or Congress. Should we fail to comply with all applicable FERC administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines. Under the EPAct 2005, the FERC has civil penalty authority under the NGA to impose penalties for current violations of up to $1 million per day for each violation and disgorgement of profits associated with any violation. While our systems have traditionally not been subject to full FERC regulation, the FERC has adopted regulations that may subject certain of our otherwise non-FERC jurisdictional facilities to FERC annual reporting. Additional rules and legislation pertaining to those and other matters may be considered or adopted by the FERC from time to time. Failure to comply with those regulations in the future could subject us to civil penalty liability. 29 Table of Contents Competition in the oil and natural gas industry is intense, which may adversely affect us. We operate in a highly competitive environment for acquiring oil and natural gas properties, marketing oil and natural gas and securing trained personnel. Many of our competitors possess and employ financial, technical and personnel resources substantially greater than ours, which can be particularly important in Gulf of Mexico and Gulf Coast onshore activities. Those companies may be able to pay more for productive oil and natural gas properties and exploratory prospects and to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or personnel resources permit. Our ability to acquire additional prospects and to discover reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. Also, there is substantial competition for capital available for investment in the oil and natural gas industry. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring prospective reserves, developing reserves, marketing hydrocarbons, attracting and retaining quality personnel and raising additional capital. If we are unable to compete successfully in these areas in the future, our future revenues and growth may be diminished or restricted. Recent adverse publicity about us, including our Chapter 11 filings, may harm our ability to compete in a highly competitive environment. Recent adverse publicity concerning our financial condition may harm our ability to attract new customers and to maintain favorable relationships with existing customers, suppliers and partners. For example, it may be more challenging for us to engage in risk sharing transactions, and some of our suppliers may require cash payments rather than extending credit, which adversely affects our liquidity. We may also experience difficulty attracting and retaining key employees. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 