D. Risk Factors We are currently operating at a net loss and must reduce costs below current levels and/or increase assets under management to return to profitability. We had net losses of $31.4 million and $6.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 and quarter ended March 31, 2008, respectively. Due to the substantial declines in our assets under management since December 31, 2006, our costs have exceeded our revenues. As a result, we are undergoing an expense reduction program. Under that program we have reduced our employee headcount from 113 at December 31, 2006 to 104 at December 31, 2007 and 75 at May 31, 2008. In addition, we sold our corporate jet in the third quarter of 2007 and have undertaken other cost-cutting efforts. However, the Company will still need additional revenues or expense reductions to return to profitability based on the current level of assets under management. There can be no assurance that we will achieve sufficient revenues or cost reductions to achieve profitability. The pending investment by Arrow is subject to a number of conditions. On May 20, 2008, we entered into an Investment Agreement with three funds managed by Arrow Capital Management LLC, which we refer to collectively as “Arrow”. The Investment Agreement provides for the issuance by us to Arrow of 5,010,000 common shares at a purchase price of $1.60 per share. The Investment Agreement further provides for the making of a tender offer by Arrow for up to 19,902,000 outstanding common shares at $1.60 per share. The Investment Agreement also provides, among other things, that Arrow will have the right to purchase from us, at their option, an additional 2,430,000 common shares in the event that fewer than 8,830,000 shares are purchased by Arrow in the tender offer. In a press release dated May 21, 2008 we stated that this transaction with Arrow is intended to provide liquidity to current shareholders, strengthen our capital position and maximize Arrow’s commitment to us. However, the tender offer and investment by Arrow is subject to a number of customary conditions including those listed below. The conditions to the Arrow transaction include (i) that there be no action brought by any governmental authority challenging the transaction or any judgment or order issued preventing or prohibiting the transaction, (ii) that our Board of Directors has not changed its approval of the transaction or recommended an alternative transaction, (iii) that our representations and warranties in the Investment Agreement are correct and we have fulfilled our material obligations under the Investment Agreement and (iv) that we have listed or have received approval for listing on the appropriate exchange any common shares to be issued by us to Arrow. While the Arrow transactions are not subject to any minimum number of shares being tendered in the tender offer or to any condition that Arrow obtain financing, there can be no assurance that the Arrow transactions will be consummated. 4 Table of Contents Volatility in the securities markets can result in a decrease in the market value of our assets under management and, in turn, a decrease in our earnings. The securities markets are highly volatile, and securities prices may increase or decrease for many reasons, including economic, financial or political events, which we cannot control. These events can, and sometimes do, result in a decrease in the overall value or amount of assets that we manage and on which we earn our fees. We earn most of our revenues from asset management contracts with clients. Under a majority of these contracts, clients pay us an asset management fee equal to a percentage of the market value of the assets we manage. As a result, if securities prices fluctuate, the market value of the assets may fluctuate, and our revenues and profitability may fluctuate as well. All other factors being equal, if securities prices fall, the value of our clients’ portfolios, and our revenues, fall as well. Under certain management contracts, a portion of our fee is dependent on the performance of the account. Under these contracts, if the value of the relevant client’s assets decline, either in absolute terms or as compared to the return of a benchmark index, we would earn no performance fee. If securities prices fall, securities may become less attractive investments as compared to other investments. Clients have the right to remove their assets from our management at any time, and may be more likely to do so when securities prices decrease. In that case, the amount of assets we manage may also decrease, and our revenues and net income may fall as well. If our revenues were to decrease substantially, there could be an impairment of the value of our acquired intangible assets and goodwill, which would, in turn, have an adverse effect on our reportable earnings. During 2007, we recognized a non-cash charge of $33.6 million related to the impairment of customer-related intangible assets. This charge was taken as a result of a significant loss in assets under management, the fees from which were supporting customer-related intangible assets. A further loss in assets under management could cause us to recognize an additional impairment charge. The ability of all of our clients to terminate their asset management contracts with us at will makes our future client and revenue base unpredictable. Our clients have the right to terminate their asset management contracts with us at any time without paying any penalty. Therefore, we cannot be certain that we will continue to receive the fees that the client agreed to pay in its asset management contract with us, particularly if the client decides that a competitor’s services or fees are more attractive. In addition, if clients terminate agreements covering a significant portion of the assets we manage, this would result in a significant loss in our revenues which would adversely affect our financial condition. We experienced a significant loss of assets under management during 2007 and the beginning of 2008. Assets under management fell from $8.1 billion on December 31, 2006 to $4.1 billion on December 31, 2007. As of May 16, 2008, we had assets under management of $2.8 billion. A further reduction in assets under management would result in additional losses in revenues. As a result our financial condition would continue to worsen and we may not be able to return to operating profitably. The market for qualified personnel is highly competitive. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel, we will be unable to adequately serve our client base. Our asset management approach depends on the expertise of our personnel and their ability to work together as an effective team. Our business depends on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled asset management, investment advisory, research and administrative professionals. Competition for employees with the necessary qualifications is intense, especially for asset management and research professionals. If we are unable to attract and retain these professionals, we will be unable to continue to provide a consistent level of service to our clients. A failure to adequately serve our clients could result in 5 Table of Contents clients’ withdrawing their assets from our management and could also affect our ability to attract new clients. Our core investment management team currently consists of 14 managers who have been with us for an average of over nine years. If one or more of these managers were to leave the Stewart Group within a short period of time, it would be difficult to replace them without disrupting our business. A disruption in our business could also cause us to lose clients. Two of our former portfolio managers left the Stewart Group in early 2006 and joined another asset management firm. In addition, in early February 2007, we announced that three additional portfolio managers would be leaving the firm after a short transition period. These departures resulted in significant losses in assets under management. Due to attrition and recent cost cutting initiatives implemented during the latter part of 2007 and the first half of 2008, several of our senior investment professionals and marketing and client service personnel are no longer employees. This may result in continued client losses which may be material. In addition, we are currently managed by a small number of key management and operating personnel whose efforts will largely determine our success. The loss of key management personnel without an adequate replacement would have an adverse effect on our ability to effectively manage the firm. Our success also depends upon our ability to hire and retain qualified operating, marketing, financial and technical personnel. Competition for qualified personnel can be intense and, accordingly, the inability to continue to hire or retain necessary personnel would have an adverse effect on our operations. Competition in our industry is intense. This competition makes client retention difficult and our revenue base uncertain. The asset management business is highly competitive. Our ability to compete is based on a number of factors, including: • investment performance; • business reputation; • continuity of client relationships and of assets under management; • the resources and effectiveness of our marketing and client service personnel; and • the level of fees and commissions charged for services. We currently compete with a large number of other asset management firms, as well as broker-dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, insurance companies and other financial institutions, some of which may have greater resources and a broader product offering. Because the cost of entering the asset management business is relatively low, entities may easily be formed which also may compete with us. Several of our former employees, after leaving the firm, have either joined other asset management firms or started their own firms. Due to these former employees’ knowledge of us and our clients, this has made us particularly vulnerable to competition from these firms. If we are not able to compete successfully against existing and future competitors, current clients may withdraw their assets from our management, and we may be unable to attract a sufficient number of new clients to maintain or improve our revenue base and net income. The ability to compete in our industry will to a large extent depend on our investment performance record. If our performance does not compare favorably to our competitors or if other 6 Table of Contents investment offerings appear to provide greater returns, we could experience a loss of assets under management. While we have a strong long-term performance record, our investment performance in the years ending December 31, 2006, and 2007 has not kept pace with the S&P 500 index, with which our performance is often compared. We believe this indicates that our investment style has not been favorably viewed by the market in recent periods. We cannot guarantee that our investment style will return to favor in the marketplace, that we will out-perform any benchmark to which we are compared or that we will be successful in implementing our investment approach. This would result in loss of revenues and, therefore, an adverse impact on our financial condition. Our U.S. tax status could be challenged. If U.S. federal, state or local taxing authorities successfully challenge our assessment of how much of our net income was derived from activities in the United States, we could be forced to pay significant additional taxes. The Internal Revenue Service, or IRS as it is commonly known, and/or other U.S. taxing authorities may assert that the Stewart Group has significantly understated its taxable income and impose tax on the understatement. The U.S. income tax we have paid and expect to pay is as follows: • W.P. Stewart & Co., Inc. pays U.S. income tax on its taxable income, consisting primarily of fees received from W.P. Stewart & Co., Ltd. and W.P. Stewart Asset Management Ltd. for sub-advisory and research services less applicable expenses; • W.P. Stewart Asset Management (NA), Inc. pays U.S. income tax on its taxable client servicing fee income on a consolidated federal basis with its wholly-owned subsidiary, W.P. Stewart Asset Management, Inc.; and • W.P. Stewart & Co., Ltd. and W.P. Stewart Asset Management Ltd. paid U.S. income tax on approximately 6% of their earnings in 2005 and on less than 1% of their earnings in 2006, and expect to pay U.S. income tax on 7% of their earnings in 2007, (as computed under U.S. GAAP), the percentage which is, or is expected to be, derived from activities directly carried on in the United States. We continue to take the position, which we believe is supported under existing authority, that no U.S. income tax will be imposed on any additional income of the Stewart Group for 2005, 2006 and 2007. In particular, no portion of the income of W.P. Stewart Securities Limited, W.P. Stewart & Co. (Europe), Ltd., W.P. Stewart Asset Management (Europe), Ltd. and its subsidiaries, NS Money Management Ltd. or TPRS Services N.V. should be subject to U.S. income tax. As a consequence, the overall effective tax rate on our earnings was 14.9% for 2005 and 14.0% in 2006. We believe that the overall tax rate will not exceed (27%) for 2007 and intend to file tax returns on that basis. Our tax rate in 2007 reflects the tax effects due to the two non-recurring items, referred to under Item 5 A under the caption “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Operating Results — Year Ended December 31, 2007 as Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006 — Expenses”, partially offset by an increase in deferred tax benefit relating to restricted share grants to employees. Excluding these non-recurring items, our tax provision for 2007 reflects our net loss for the year. The overall effective tax rate on our earnings in future years using a similar methodology will vary in accordance with the relative nature and extent of our activities in the United States and in countries other than the United States. As a result of the departures of several portfolio managers over the last two years, together with other changes in the balance of our portfolio management activities among various jurisdictions, the proportion of our activity based in high-tax countries has increased somewhat relative to the activity based in lower-tax jurisdictions. We believe this change will not be permanent. However, this change in our business has resulted in an increase in the effective tax rate for 2007, and there can be no assurance that our effective tax rate will not continue to fluctuate significantly as a result of various factors, including those described above. 7 Table of Contents The IRS, New York State and/or New York City may disagree with our positions and assert that (i) the fees paid to W.P. Stewart & Co., Inc. (approximately one-third of the advisory fee for accounts for which W.P. Stewart & Co., Inc. provides sub-advisory services and $1.2 million annually for research relating to other accounts) or W.P. Stewart Asset Management (NA), Inc. and its subsidiary understated their taxable incomes and/or (ii) the net income of W.P. Stewart & Co., Ltd. and W.P. Stewart Asset Management Ltd. from business that they carry on directly in the United States represents more than the amount reported by those two companies. Any additional net income attributed to W.P. Stewart & Co., Inc., W.P. Stewart Asset Management (NA), Inc. and its subsidiaries or the directly-conducted U.S. business of W.P. Stewart & Co., Ltd. and W.P. Stewart Asset Management Ltd. would be subject to U.S. taxes, at rates that are currently up to approximately 62%. We are subject to the control of many regulatory bodies. These regulators have the power to restrict or limit our business activities, to cause us to change the manner in which we conduct our businesses and to levy substantial penalties or fines on us. The asset management industry is subject to regulation in most of the jurisdictions in which we do business. Our Bermuda companies are subject to the Investment Business Act 2003 of Bermuda, but by virtue of the nature of their clients, they are currently exempt from the requirement to hold a license under that Act. W.P. Stewart & Co., Ltd., W.P. Stewart Asset Management Ltd. and W.P. Stewart & Co., Inc. are registered as investment advisers with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC as it is commonly known, and various state regulatory agencies. W.P. Stewart Securities Limited, our Bermuda-based broker-dealer, is registered with the SEC and various state regulatory agencies as a broker-dealer. In addition, W.P. Stewart Securities Limited is regulated by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, or FINRA as it is commonly known, and was previously regulated by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. W.P. Stewart & Co. (Europe), Ltd. is authorized and regulated by the Financial Services Authority, or FSA as it is commonly known. W.P. Stewart Fund Management Limited, our Dublin-based fund management company, is regulated by the Irish Financial Services Regulatory Authority, or IFSRA as it is commonly known, and was previously regulated by the Central Bank of Ireland. W.P. Stewart Fund Management S.A. and the publicly traded funds that it manages, including W.P. Stewart Holdings Fund, are primarily regulated by the Luxembourg Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier, commonly referred to as the CSSF. In addition, W.P. Stewart & Co., Ltd. and W.P. Stewart Asset Management Ltd. have each been issued a license by the Netherlands Authority for the Financial Markets, commonly referred to as the AFM, to conduct certain activities in The Netherlands, which license is conditioned upon compliance with certain obligations of the licensee. These regulatory regimes are designed to protect clients and other third parties who deal with us and our subsidiaries and to ensure the integrity of the financial markets. They are not designed to protect our shareholders. These regulations often limit our activities through requirements relating to customer protection, market conduct, money laundering and our level of net capital. We also face the risk of significant intervention by regulatory authorities, including extended investigation and surveillance activity, adoption of costly or restrictive new regulations and judicial or administrative proceedings that may result in substantial penalties to us. Among other things, if we were found to have violated a significant regulatory requirement, we could be fined or enjoined from engaging in certain business activities, and the registration of certain members of the Stewart Group as investment advisers, broker-dealers or fund managers could be terminated. If new regulations are adopted, these consequences could be more significant. 8 Table of Contents As a shareholder of a Bermuda company you may, in some instances, have fewer rights and protections than you would have as a shareholder of a U.S. company. W.P. Stewart & Co., Ltd. is incorporated in Bermuda and its corporate affairs are governed by its memorandum of association, its bye-laws and Bermuda law. Under Bermuda law, shareholders have fewer rights than they might have as shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a U.S. jurisdiction, and these rights are less well-defined. It is also more difficult in some respects for investors to protect their interests in connection with actions by the management, board of directors or controlling shareholders of a company. For a description of some of the rights that you will have as a shareholder of W.P. Stewart & Co., Ltd., see Item 10 B under the caption “Additional Information — Memorandum and Articles of Association.” The United States and Bermuda do not have a treaty requiring Bermuda courts to recognize and enforce U.S. court judgments in civil or criminal matters. It is not clear that a Bermuda court would enforce a United States court judgment based solely on the U.S. federal securities laws. We are and will continue to be controlled by affiliated shareholders. All shareholders of WPS II, Inc., our largest shareholder, owning approximately 38% of the common shares as of May 1, 2008, are current or former employees of the Stewart Group, members of their families or trusts for members of their families. WPS II, Inc. adopted a plan of dissolution in May 2008 pursuant to which it will distribute its net assets to its shareholders no later than December 31, 2008. As a result, our common shares held by WPS II will be transferred to WPS II’s shareholders on a pro rata basis. On June 3, 2008, WPS II made a partial distribution under its plan of dissolution of 4,816,139 common shares. Therefore, WPS II currently owns 14,448,417 common shares, or approximately 28.7% of our outstanding common shares. Additionally, our directors and executive officers beneficially owned approximately 14.6% of the common shares as of May 1, 2008. In connection with the dissolution of WPS II, it will own no common shares and, as a result of the distribution of our common shares to WPS II shareholders, our directors and executive officers will beneficially own an additional 7,948,705 common shares in the aggregate. Also, substantially all of our other employees own common shares. Furthermore, the majority of these shareholders (including WPS II, Inc.) will not be subject to the voting limitations described below. WPS II, Inc. and these affiliated individuals, therefore, currently have the power (without the consent of our other shareholders) to elect the entire board of directors and, as a result, to control the management and policies of the Stewart Group, including making all decisions about mergers, acquisitions, sales, borrowings, issuances and redemptions of our securities and declaration of dividends on the common shares. They also currently are able to decide all other matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including amendments to our memorandum of association and bye-laws and certain equity-based compensation arrangements. A large portfolio manager currently holds approximately 21.7% of our outstanding common shares; any large sales by this or other large shareholders could depress the price of our common shares. Based on an amendment to its Schedule 13D filed April 14, 2008, Van Den Berg Management, Inc. (doing business as Century Management) (“Century”), an investment adviser and portfolio manager currently holds 10,930,879 common shares representing approximately 21.7% of our outstanding common shares on behalf of its clients and itself. Century is, however, limited by the voting restrictions in our Bye-laws described under Item 10 B under the caption “Additional Information — Memorandum and Articles of Association — Shareholders’ Rights”. If Century or our other large shareholders, including former shareholders of WPS II who receive our common shares in the dissolution of WPS II, were to sell a substantial number of their common shares in the open market, the market price of our common shares could be adversely affected thereby. In 9 Table of Contents addition, if Century were to tender all or substantially all of its shares in the tender offer by Arrow, depending on how many other shares were tendered, this could result in the tender offer being oversubscribed. In the event of an oversubscription, shareholders would be subject to pro ration as described in the offer to purchase document filed by Arrow with its Schedule TO. Our bye-laws restrict shareholders’ voting rights. You may not be able to vote all of the common shares that you own. Our bye-laws limit the voting power of natural persons to a maximum of 5% of all votes attributable to our outstanding shares and the voting power of entities and persons other than natural persons to a maximum of 9.5% of the votes attributable to our outstanding shares. For these purposes, voting power held by any person or entity is deemed to include voting power held or shared by that person or entity as part of a “group” (as defined in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934). These limitations apply regardless of how many common shares are actually owned or controlled by a shareholder. These restrictions, however, will not apply to: • WPS II, Inc.; • Other shareholders or groups of shareholders who were shareholders of W.P. Stewart & Co., Ltd. immediately before our initial public offering in December 2000; and • Certain persons, entities or groups that are designated by our board of directors. The votes that could have been cast by shareholders who are subject to these voting restrictions will be allocated to the other shareholders pro rata based on the number of shares they hold. However, no shareholder subject to these restrictions may be allocated additional voting rights to the extent that the allocation would cause that shareholder to have more than 5% (for natural persons) or 9.5% (for legal persons or entities) of the total voting power. This voting limitation was put in place to reduce the likelihood that we will become a controlled foreign corporation for U.S. tax purposes. See Item 10 E under the caption “Additional Information — Taxation” for a discussion of the tax consequences associated with our becoming a controlled foreign corporation. Our bye-laws also limit the overall voting power of all persons, entities or groups to 20% of the total number of all votes attributable to our outstanding shares. These limitations apply regardless of how many common shares are actually owned or controlled by a shareholder and regardless of whether the voting restrictions described in the previous paragraph apply to that shareholder. These restrictions, however, will not apply to: • WPS II, Inc. or its affiliates; • Direct or indirect subsidiaries of W.P. Stewart & Co., Ltd.; • Any shareholding entity that may be established for the purpose of our employee benefit plans and that is designated by our board of directors; and • Other persons, entities or groups that are designated by our board of directors. In addition, Arrow has been granted a waiver allowing the Arrow funds as a group to vote up to 24% of our outstanding voting power in the event their ownership is at or above such level. This voting limitation was put in place to reduce the likelihood of inadvertent terminations of our advisory agreements as a result of “assignments” of such contracts. 10 Table of Contents These voting limitations and reallocation provisions in our bye-laws make it difficult or impossible for any person, entity or group to acquire control of us unless our board of directors, WPS II, Inc. and the other affiliated shareholders discussed above agree. These provisions also may make it difficult to remove incumbent directors of the Stewart Group and may limit the price that investors will be willing to pay in the future for common shares. A change of control of the Stewart Group would automatically terminate our clients’ investment advisory agreements with us unless the clients elect not to terminate and could prevent us for a two-year period from increasing the investment advisory fees we are able to charge our investment company clients. Under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended, or the Advisers Act as it is commonly known, a client’s investment management agreement will terminate, unless the client elects otherwise, if the agreement is “assigned” by the investment adviser without the client’s consent. An advisory agreement is considered to be assigned to another party when a “controlling block” of the adviser’s voting securities is transferred. In our case, an assignment of the Stewart Group’s asset management contracts may occur if, among other things, we sell or issue a certain number of additional common shares. We cannot be certain that our clients will consent to the assignment of investment advisory agreements or approve new agreements with the Stewart Group if a change of control occurs. While the limitation in our bye-laws prohibiting any person or group from voting more than 20% of the total number of shares of W.P. Stewart & Co., Ltd. was put in place to reduce the likelihood of inadvertent terminations of our advisory agreements as a result of “assignments” of such contracts, there can be no guarantee that this voting limitation will prevent such a termination from occurring. Under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or the Investment Company Act as it is commonly known, a party that acquires control of an investment company may not impose an “unfair burden” on that company for a two-year period after a change of control. The term “unfair burden” has been interpreted to include certain increases in investment advisory fees. This restriction, along with the difficulty of obtaining a controlling voting interest in the Stewart Group described above, may discourage potential purchasers from acquiring a controlling interest in W.P. Stewart & Co., Ltd. We have been advised that our largest shareholder, WPS II, Inc., adopted a plan of dissolution in May 2008 pursuant to which it will distribute its net assets to its shareholders no later than December 31, 2008. As a result, our common shares held by WPS II will be transferred to WPS II’s shareholders on a pro rata basis. As of May 1, 2008, WPS II owned approximately 38.2% of our common shares. On June 3, 2008, WPS II made a partial distribution under its plan of dissolution of 4,816,139 common shares. Therefore, WPS II currently owns 14,448,417 common shares, or approximately 28.7% of our outstanding common shares. Upon the further distribution of our common shares to WPS II shareholders, WPS II would cease to hold 25% of our outstanding common shares. Based upon prior no-action letters issued by the SEC staff to other parties, we do not believe this would be deemed a change of control for purposes of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. However, if the dissolution of WPS II were deemed to be a change of control under applicable SEC regulations and interpretations, this would result in a deemed assignment of our investment advisory agreements with our clients. As a result, we would be required to obtain the consents of our clients to the deemed change in control. We cannot be certain if our clients would provide their consents and this process could result in a decline in our assets under management. In addition, if deemed an assignment of our investment advisory agreement with our clients, we would not be able to increase our advisory fees for investment company clients for two years. 11 Table of Contents Future sales of currently restricted common shares could cause the market price for the common shares to decline. If too many shareholders who are currently restricted from selling their common shares decide to sell these shares once the restrictions are lifted, the market price of your common shares could be adversely affected. As of December 31, 2007, there were 51,022,066 common shares issued and outstanding. Of these shares, 21,156,085 common shares are freely transferable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended or the Securities Act, as it is commonly known. Sales of substantial numbers of common shares, or the possibility of such sales, pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act or otherwise, may adversely affect the market price of the common shares and make it more difficult for us to raise capital by issuing equity securities. In addition, prior to December 31, 2008, WPS II, Inc. will be distributing all of its net assets to its shareholders on a pro rata basis as a part of its plan of dissolution. Subsequent to a distribution of 4,816,139 common shares to its shareholders on June 3, 2008, WPS II holds 14,448,417 common shares. Any common shares distributed to persons who are not our affiliates will be freely tradable, and any common shares distributed to persons who are affiliates will be available for sale within the limitations of Rule 144. Sales of common shares received by WPS II shareholders in connection with the dissolution of WPS II could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common shares. The market price of the common shares will fluctuate. The market price for the common shares may be volatile and may fluctuate based upon a number of factors including, but not limited to: • our operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts for the Stewart Group and/or its competitors; • conditions or trends in the asset management industry; • adoption of new accounting standards affecting the investment advisory business; • news announcements; or • changes in general economic and market conditions. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. These fluctuations may materially affect the market price of our common shares. If we cannot meet the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) continued listing requirements, the NYSE may delist our common shares which would have an adverse impact on the liquidity and market price of our common shares. Our common shares are currently listed on the NYSE. In the future, we may not be able to meet the continued listing requirements of the NYSE. The continued listing requirements on the NYSE require, among other things: (i) that the average closing price of our common shares not be less than $1.00 for 30 consecutive trading days and (ii) that our market capitalization be not less than $75 million if at the same time shareholders equity is less than $75 million for 30 consecutive trading days. On March 31, 2008, our 12 Table of Contents market capitalization was $98.4 million and on December 31, 2007 our shareholders’ equity was $72.1 million, as reflected on the balance sheet included in this annual report on Form 20-F. Upon completion of the pending transaction with Arrow, we expect our market capitalization to increase by at least $8.0 million. If we are unable to satisfy the NYSE criteria for continued listing, our common shares would be subject to delisting. A delisting of our common shares could negatively impact us by reducing the liquidity and market price of our common shares, reducing the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common shares, which could negatively impact our ability to raise equity financing. 