ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following should be considered carefully with the information provided elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K in reaching a decision regarding an investment in our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business The volatility of the oil and natural gas industry may have an adverse impact on our operations. Our revenues, cash flows and profitability are substantially dependent upon prevailing prices for oil and natural gas. In recent years, oil and natural gas prices and, therefore, the level of drilling, exploration, development and production, have been extremely volatile. Any significant or extended decline in oil or natural gas prices will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could impair access to future sources of capital. Volatility in the oil and natural gas industry results from numerous factors over which we have no control, including: • the level of oil and natural gas prices, expectations about future oil and natural gas prices and the ability of international cartels to set and maintain production levels and prices; • the cost of exploring for, producing and transporting oil and natural gas; • the level and price of foreign oil and natural gas transportation; • available pipeline and other oil and natural gas transportation capacity; • weather conditions; • international political, military, regulatory and economic conditions; • the level of consumer demand; • the price and the availability of alternative fuels; • the effect of worldwide energy conservation measures; and • the ability of oil and natural gas companies to raise capital. Significant declines in oil and natural gas prices for an extended period may: • impair our financial condition, liquidity, ability to finance planned capital expenditures and results of operations; • reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically; • cause us to delay or postpone some of our capital projects; (13) Table of Contents • reduce our revenues, operating income and cash flow; and • reduce the recorded value of our oil and natural gas properties. No assurance can be given that current levels of oil and natural gas prices will continue. We expect oil and natural gas prices, as well as the oil and natural gas industry generally, to continue to be volatile. We must replace oil and natural gas reserves that we produce. Failure to replace reserves may negatively affect our business. Our future performance depends in part upon our ability to find, develop and acquire additional oil and natural gas reserves that are economically recoverable. Our proved reserves decline as they are depleted and we must locate and develop or acquire new oil and natural gas reserves to replace reserves being depleted by production. No assurance can be given that we will be able to find and develop or acquire additional reserves on an economic basis. If we cannot economically replace our reserves, our results of operations may be materially adversely affected and our stock price may decline. We are subject to uncertainties in reserve estimates and future net cash flows. There is substantial uncertainty in estimating quantities of proved reserves and projecting future production rates and the timing of development expenditures. No one can measure underground accumulations of oil and natural gas in an exact way. Accordingly, oil and natural gas reserve engineering requires subjective estimations of those accumulations. Estimates of other engineers might differ widely from those of our independent petroleum engineers, and our independent petroleum engineers may make material changes to reserve estimates based on the results of actual drilling, testing, and production. As a result, our reserve estimates often differ from the quantities of oil and natural gas we ultimately recover. Also, we make certain assumptions regarding future oil and natural gas prices, production levels, and operating and development costs that may prove incorrect. Any significant variance from these assumptions could greatly affect our estimates of reserves, the economically recoverable quantities of oil and natural gas attributable to any particular group of properties, the classifications of reserves based on risk of recovery, and estimates of the future net cash flows. Some of our reserve estimates are made without the benefit of a lengthy production history and are calculated using volumetric analysis. Those estimates are less reliable than estimates based on a lengthy production history. Volumetric analysis involves estimating the volume of a reservoir based on the net feet of pay and an estimation of the productive area. The present value of future net cash flows from our proved reserves is not necessarily the same as the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. We base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves on prices and costs in effect on the day of estimate. However, actual future net cash flows from our oil and natural gas properties also will be affected by factors such as: • actual prices we receive for oil and natural gas; • the amount and timing of actual production; • supply and demand of oil and natural gas; • limits of increases in consumption by natural gas purchasers; and • changes in governmental regulations or taxation. The timing of both our production and our incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of oil and natural gas properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net cash flows may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the oil and natural gas industry in general. (14) Table of Contents Competition in the oil and natural gas industry is intense, and many of our competitors have greater financial, technological and other resources than we do. We operate in the highly competitive areas of oil and natural gas acquisition, development, exploitation, exploration and production. The oil and natural gas industry is characterized by rapid and significant technological advancements and introductions of new products and services using new technologies. We face intense competition from independent, technology-driven companies as well as from both major and other independent oil and natural gas companies in each of the following areas: • seeking to acquire desirable producing properties or new leases for future exploration; • marketing our oil and natural gas production; • integrating new technologies; and • seeking to acquire the equipment and expertise necessary to develop and operate our properties. Many of our competitors have financial, technological and other resources substantially greater than ours, and some of them are fully integrated oil and natural gas companies. These companies may be able to pay more for development prospects and productive oil and natural gas properties and may be able to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or human resources permit. Further, these companies may enjoy technological advantages and may be able to implement new technologies more rapidly than we can. Our ability to develop and exploit our oil and natural gas properties and to acquire additional properties in the future will depend upon our ability to successfully conduct operations, implement advanced technologies, evaluate and select suitable properties and consummate transactions in this highly competitive environment. We do not control all of our operations and development projects. Substantially all of our business activities are conducted through joint operating agreements under which we own partial interests in oil and natural gas wells. At December 31, 2006, we owned interests in 489 gross (376.42 net) oil and natural gas wells for which we were the operator and 936 gross (317.03 net) oil and natural gas wells where we were not the operator. Included in these wells are 383 gross (162.43 net) wells which are shut in or temporarily abandoned and 222 gross (120.61 net) injection wells. Whether or not we hold a majority working or operating interest in our oil and natural gas projects, we may not be in a position to remove the operator in the event of poor performance and we may not have control over normal operating procedures, expenditures or future development of underlying properties. The failure of an operator of our wells to adequately perform operations, or an operator’s breach of the applicable agreements, could reduce our production and revenues. The success and timing of our drilling and development activities on properties operated by others therefore depends upon a number of factors outside of our control, including the operator’s: • timing and amount of capital expenditures; • expertise and financial resources; • inclusion of other participants in drilling wells; and • use of technology. Our business involves many operating risks, which may result in substantial losses, and insurance may be unavailable or inadequate to protect us against these risks. Our operations are subject to hazards and risks inherent in drilling for, producing and transporting oil and natural gas, such as: • fires; (15) Table of Contents • natural disasters; • explosions; • pressure forcing oil or natural gas out of the wellbore at a dangerous velocity coupled with the potential for fire or explosion; • weather; • failure of oilfield drilling and service equipment and tools; • changes in underground pressure in a formation that causes the surface to collapse or crater; • pipeline ruptures or cement failures; • environmental hazards such as natural gas leaks, oil spills and discharges of toxic gases; and • availability of needed equipment at acceptable prices, including steel tubular products. Any of these risks can cause substantial losses resulting from: • injury or loss of life; • damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; • pollution and other environmental damage; • regulatory investigations and penalties; • suspension of our operations; and • repair and remediation costs. We do not insure against the loss of oil or natural gas reserves as a result of operating hazards or insure against business interruption. Losses could occur for uninsurable or uninsured risks, or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could harm our financial condition and results of operations. The oil and natural gas industry is capital intensive. The oil and natural gas industry is capital intensive. We make substantial capital expenditures for the acquisition, exploration for and development of oil and natural gas reserves. Historically, we have financed capital expenditures primarily with cash generated by operations, proceeds from bank borrowings and sales of our equity securities. In addition, we have sold and may consider selling additional assets to raise additional operating capital. From time to time, we may also reduce our ownership interests in our projects in order to reduce our capital expenditure requirements. Our cash flow from operations and access to capital is subject to a number of variables, including: • our proved reserves; • the level of oil and natural gas we are able to produce from existing wells; • the prices at which oil and natural gas are sold; and • our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves. Any one of these variables can materially affect our ability to borrow under our revolving credit facility. (16) Table of Contents If our revenues or the borrowing base under our revolving credit facility decreases as a result of lower oil and natural gas prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to undertake or complete future drilling projects. We may, from time to time, seek additional financing, either in the form of increased bank borrowings, sale of debt or equity securities or other forms of financing and there can be no assurance as to the availability of any additional financing upon terms acceptable to us. There are risks in acquiring producing properties, including difficulties in integrating acquired properties into our business, additional liabilities and expenses associated with acquired properties, diversion of management attention, increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations and incurrence of additional debt. Our business strategy includes growing our reserve base through acquisitions. Our failure to integrate acquired businesses successfully into our existing business, or the expense incurred in consummating future acquisitions, could result in unanticipated expenses and losses. In addition, we may assume cleanup or reclamation obligations or other unanticipated liabilities in connection with these acquisitions. The scope and cost of these obligations may ultimately be materially greater than estimated at the time of the acquisition. We are continually investigating opportunities for acquisitions. In connection with future acquisitions, the process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant management attention and financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of existing operations. Our ability to make future acquisitions may be constrained by our ability to obtain additional financing. Possible future acquisitions could result in our incurring additional debt, contingent liabilities and expense, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. The marketability of our natural gas production depends on facilities that we typically do not own or control. The marketability of our natural gas production depends in part upon the availability, proximity and capacity of natural gas gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities. We generally deliver natural gas through natural gas gathering systems and natural gas pipelines that we do not own. Our ability to produce and market natural gas on a commercial basis could be harmed by any significant change in the cost or availability of such systems and pipelines. If we default under either our revolving credit facility or our term loan facility, the lenders could foreclose on, and acquire control of, substantially all of our assets. The lenders under our two credit facilities have liens on substantially all of our assets. Additionally, both credit facilities restrict our ability to obtain additional financing, make investments, lease equipment, sell assets and engage in business combinations. We are also required to comply with certain financial covenants and ratios under these facilities. As a result of the liens held by our lenders, if we fail to meet our payment or other obligations under either credit facility, including our failure to meet any of the required financial covenants or ratios, the lenders would be entitled to foreclose on substantially all of our assets and liquidate those assets. We are subject to many restrictions under our two credit facilities. As required by our revolving credit facility and term loan facility with our bank lenders, we have pledged substantially all of our producing oil and natural gas properties as collateral to secure the payment of our indebtedness. Both credit facilities restrict our ability to obtain additional financing, make investments, lease equipment, sell assets and engage in business combinations. We are also required to comply with certain financial covenants and ratios. Although we were in compliance with these covenants at December 31, 2006, in the past we have had to request waivers from our banks because of our non-compliance with certain financial covenants and ratios. Our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants in the future is uncertain and will be affected by the levels of cash flow from our operations and events or circumstances beyond our control. Our failure to comply with any of the restrictions and covenants under either credit facility could result in a default under both credit facilities, which could cause all of our existing indebtedness to be immediately due and payable. (17) Table of Contents Our revolving credit facility limits the amounts we can borrow to a borrowing base amount, determined by the lenders in their sole discretion, based upon projected revenues from the oil and natural gas properties securing our loan. The lenders can unilaterally adjust the borrowing base and the borrowings permitted to be outstanding under the revolving credit facility. Any increase in the borrowing base requires the consent of all lenders. If all lenders do not agree on an increase, then the borrowing base will be the lowest borrowing base determined by any lender. Outstanding borrowings in excess of the borrowing base must be repaid immediately, or we must pledge other oil and natural gas properties as additional collateral. We do not currently have any substantial properties that are not pledged and no assurance can be given that we would be able to make any mandatory principal prepayments required under the revolving credit facility. Our producing properties are geographically concentrated. A substantial portion of our proved oil and natural gas reserves are located in the Permian Basin of west Texas and eastern New Mexico. Specifically, at December 31, 2006, approximately 92% of the discounted present value of our proved reserves were located in the Permian Basin. As a result, we may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of delays or interruptions of production from these wells due to mechanical problems, damages to the current producing reservoirs, significant governmental regulation, including any curtailment of production, or interruption of transportation of oil or natural gas produced from the wells. Our derivative activities create a risk of financial loss. In order to manage our exposure to price risks in the marketing of our oil and natural gas, we have in the past and expect to continue to enter into oil and natural gas price risk management arrangements with respect to a portion of our expected production. We use derivative arrangements such as swaps, puts and collars that generally result in a fixed price or a range of minimum and maximum price limits over a specified time period. Certain derivative contracts may limit the benefits we could realize if actual prices received are above the contract price. In a typical derivative transaction utilizing a swap arrangement, we will have the right to receive from the counterparty the excess of the fixed price specified in the contract over a floating price based on a market index, multiplied by the quantity identified in the derivative contract. If the floating price exceeds the fixed price, we are required to pay the counterparty this difference multiplied by the quantity identified in the derivative contract. Derivative arrangements could prevent us from receiving the full advantage of increases in oil or natural gas prices above the fixed amount specified in the derivative contract. In addition, these transactions may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which: • the counterparties to our future contracts fail to perform under the contract; or • a sudden, unexpected event materially impacts oil or natural gas prices. In the past, some of our derivative contracts required us to deliver cash collateral or other assurances of performance to the counterparties in the event that our payment obligations exceeded certain levels. Future collateral requirements are uncertain but will depend on arrangements with our counterparties and highly volatile oil and natural gas prices. We are subject to complex federal, state and local laws and regulations that could adversely affect our business. Extensive federal, state and local regulation of the oil and natural gas industry significantly affects our operations. In particular, our oil and natural gas exploration, development and production are subject to stringent environmental regulations. These regulations have increased the costs of planning, designing, drilling, installing, operating and abandoning our oil and natural gas wells and other related facilities. These regulations may become more demanding in the future. Matters subject to regulation include: • permits for drilling operations; • drilling bonds; • spacing of wells; (18) Table of Contents • unitization and pooling of properties; • environmental protection; • reports concerning operations; and • taxation. Under these laws and regulations, we could be liable for: • personal injuries; • property damage; • oil spills; • discharge of hazardous materials; • reclamation costs; • remediation and clean-up costs; and • other environmental damages. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations also may result in the suspension or terminations of our operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Further, these laws and regulations could change in ways that substantially increase our costs. Any of these liabilities, penalties, suspensions, terminations or regulatory changes could make it more expensive for us to conduct our business or cause us to limit or curtail some of our operations. Declining oil and natural gas prices may cause us to record ceiling test write-downs. We use the full cost method of accounting to account for our oil and natural gas operations. This means that we capitalize the costs to acquire, explore for and develop oil and natural gas properties. Under full cost accounting rules, the capitalized costs of oil and natural gas properties may not exceed a ceiling limit, which is based on the present value of estimated future net revenues, net of income tax effects, from proved reserves, discounted at 10%, plus the lower of cost or fair market value of unproved properties. These rules generally require pricing future oil and natural gas production at unescalated oil and natural gas prices in effect at the end of each fiscal quarter, with effect given to cash flow hedge positions. If our capitalized costs of oil and natural gas properties, as adjusted for asset retirement obligations, exceed the ceiling limit, we must charge the amount of the excess against earnings. This is called a ceiling test write-down. This non-cash impairment charge does not affect cash flow from operating activities, but it does reduce stockholders’ equity. Generally, impairment charges cannot be restored by subsequent increases in the prices of oil and natural gas. The risk that will be required to write down the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties increases when oil and natural gas prices decline. In addition, write-downs may occur if we experience substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves. We did not recognize an impairment in 2006. We cannot assure you that we will not experience ceiling test write-downs in the future. Terrorist activities may adversely affect our business. Terrorist activities, including events similar to those of September 11, 2001, or armed conflict involving the United States may adversely affect our business activities and financial condition. If events of this nature occur and persist, the resulting political and social instability could adversely affect prevailing oil and natural gas prices and cause a reduction in our revenues. In addition, oil and natural gas production facilities, transportation systems and storage facilities could be direct targets of terrorist attacks, and our operations could be adversely impacted if infrastructure integral to our operations is destroyed or damaged. Costs associated with insurance and other security (19) Table of Contents measures may increase as a result of these threats, and some insurance coverage may become more difficult to obtain, if available at all. We are highly dependent upon key personnel. Our success is highly dependent upon the services, efforts and abilities of key members of our management team. Our operations could be materially and adversely affected if one or more of these individuals become unavailable for any reason. We do not have employment agreements or long term contractual arrangements with any of our officers or other key employees. In periods of improving market conditions, our ability to obtain and retain qualified consultants on a timely basis may be adversely affected. Our future growth and profitability will also be dependent upon our ability to attract and retain other qualified management personnel and to effectively manage our growth. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in doing so. Part of our business is seasonal in nature. Weather conditions affect the demand for and price of oil and natural gas and can also delay drilling activities, temporarily disrupting our overall business plans. Demand for oil and natural gas is typically higher during winter months than summer months. However, warm winters can also lead to downward price trends. As a result, our results of operations may be adversely affected by seasonal conditions. Our oil and natural gas operations are subject to many inherent risks. Oil and natural gas drilling activities and production operations are highly speculative and involve a high degree of risk. These operations are marked by unprofitable efforts because of dry holes and wells that do not produce oil or natural gas in sufficient quantities to return a profit. The success of our operations depends, in part, upon the ability of our management and technical personnel. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain. There is no assurance that our oil and natural gas drilling or acquisition activities will be successful, that any production will be obtained, or that any such production, if obtained, will be profitable. Our operations are subject to all of the operating hazards and risks normally incident to drilling for and producing oil and natural gas. These hazards and risks include, but are not limited to: • encountering unusual or unexpected formations and pressures; • explosions, blowouts and fires; • pipe and tubular failures and casing collapses; • environmental pollution; and • personal injuries. Any one of these potential hazards could result in accidents, environmental damage, personal injury, property damage and other harm that could result in substantial liabilities to us. As is customary in the industry, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these hazards. We maintain general liability insurance and obtain Operator’s Extra Expense insurance on a well-by-well basis. We carry insurance against certain pollution hazards, subject to our insurance policy’s terms, conditions and exclusions. If we sustain an uninsured loss or liability, our ability to operate could be materially adversely affected. Our oil and natural gas operations are not subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts at the election of the federal government. (20) Table of Contents Failure to maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent auditors addressing these assessments. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports. If, as a result of deficiencies in our internal controls, we cannot provide reliable financial reports, our business decision process may be adversely affected, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the price of our stock could decrease as a result. Restrictive debt covenants could limit our growth and our ability to finance our operations, fund our capital needs, respond to changing conditions and engage in other business activities that may be in our best interests. Our revolving credit facility and second lien term loan facility contain a number of significant covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: • dispose of assets; • incur additional indebtedness; • use our retained earnings and net income for payment of dividends on our common stock; • create liens on our assets; • enter into specified investments or acquisitions; • repurchase, redeem or retire our capital stock or other securities; • merge or consolidate, or transfer all or substantially all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries; • engage in specified transactions with subsidiaries and affiliates; or • engage in other specified corporate activities. Also, our credit facilities require us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests. Our ability to comply with these ratios and financial condition tests may be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet these ratios and financial condition tests. These financial ratio restrictions and financial condition tests could limit our ability to obtain future financing, make needed capital expenditures, withstand a future downturn in our business or economy in general or otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities. We may also be prevented from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise because of the limitations that the restrictive covenants under the credit facilities impose on us. A breach of any of these covenants or our inability to comply with the required financial ratios or financial condition tests could result in a default under the credit facilities. A default, if not cured or waived, could result in acceleration of all indebtedness outstanding under the credit facilities. The accelerated debt would become immediately due and payable. If that should occur, we may not be able to pay all such debt or to borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if new financing were then available, it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us. We do not pay dividends on our common stock. We have never paid dividends on our common stock, and do not intend to pay cash dividends on the common stock in the foreseeable future. Net income from our operations, if any, will be used for the development of our business, including capital expenditures and to retire debt. Any decisions to pay dividends on the common stock in the future will depend upon our profitability at the time, the available cash and other factors. Our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is further limited by the terms of our revolving credit facility and our second lien term loan facility. (21) Table of Contents Our stockholders’ rights plan, provisions in our corporate governance documents and Delaware law may delay or prevent an acquisition of Parallel, which could decrease the value of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and the Delaware General Corporation Law contain provisions that may discourage other persons from initiating a tender offer or takeover attempt that a stockholder might consider to be in the best interest of all stockholders, including takeover attempts that might result in a premium to be paid over the market price of our stock. On October 5, 2000, our Board of Directors adopted a stockholder rights plan. The plan is designed to protect Parallel from unfair or coercive takeover attempts and to prevent a potential acquirer from gaining control of Parallel without fairly compensating all of the stockholders. The plan authorized 50,000 shares of $0.10 par Series A Preferred Stock Purchase Rights. A dividend of one Right for each share of our outstanding common stock was distributed to stockholders of record at the close of business on October 16, 2000. If a public announcement is made that a person has acquired 15% or more of our common stock, or a tender or exchange offer is made for 15% of more of the common stock, each Right entitles the holder to purchase from the company one one-thousandth of a share of Series A Preferred Stock, at an exercise price of $26.00 per one one-thousandth of a share, subject to adjustment. In addition, under certain circumstances, the rights entitle the holders to buy Parallel’s stock at a 50% discount. We are authorized to issue 10.0 million shares of preferred stock; there are no outstanding shares as of December 31, 2006. Our Board of Directors has total discretion in the issuance and the determination of the rights and privileges of any shares of preferred stock which might be issued in the future, which rights and privileges may be detrimental to the holders of the common stock. It is not possible to state the actual effect of the authorization and issuance of a new series of preferred stock upon the rights of holders of the common stock and other series of preferred stock unless and until the Board of Directors determines the attributes of any new series of preferred stock and the specific rights of its holders. These effects might include: • restrictions on dividends on common stock and other series of preferred stock if dividends on any new series of preferred stock have not been paid; • dilution of the voting power of common stock and other series of preferred stock to the extent that a new series of preferred stock has voting rights, or to the extent that any new series of preferred stock is convertible into common stock; • dilution of the equity interest of common stock and other series of preferred stock; and • limitation on the right of holders of common stock and other series of preferred stock to share in Parallel’s assets upon liquidation until satisfaction of any liquidation preference attributable to any new series of preferred stock. The issuance of preferred stock in the future could discourage, delay or prevent a tender offer, proxy contest or other similar transaction involving a potential change in control of Parallel that might be viewed favorably by stockholders. Future sales of our common stock could adversely affect our stock prices. Substantial sales of our common stock in the public market, or the perception by the market that those sales could occur, may lower our stock price or make it difficult for us to raise additional equity capital in the future. These potential sales could include sales of our common stock by our directors and officers, who beneficially owned approximately 7.49% of the outstanding shares of our common stock as of February 15, 2007. Our business can be adversely impacted by downward changes in oil and natural gas prices, and most significantly by declines in oil prices. Our revenues, cash flows and profitability are substantially dependent on prevailing oil and natural gas prices, which are volatile. Declines in oil and natural gas prices would not only reduce revenue, but could reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically and, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and reserves. Further, oil and natural gas prices do not necessarily move in tandem. Because approximately 84% of our estimated future net revenues from our proved reserves at December 31, 2006 are from oil production, we will be more affected by movements in oil prices. (22) Table of Contents The price of our common stock may fluctuate which may cause our common stock to trade at a substantially lower price than the price which you paid for our common stock. The trading price of our common stock and the price at which we may sell securities in the future is subject to substantial fluctuations in response to various factors, including any of the following: our ability to successfully accomplish our business strategy; the trading volume in our stock; changes in governmental regulations; actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly or annual financial results; our involvement in litigation; general market conditions; the prices of oil and natural gas; our ability to economically replace our reserves; announcements by us and our competitors; our liquidity; our ability to raise additional funds; and other events. If securities analysts downgrade our stock or cease coverage of us, the price of our stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. We do not control these analysts. Furthermore, there are many large, well-established, publicly traded companies active in our industry and market, which may mean that it is less likely that we will receive widespread analyst coverage. If one or more of the analysts who do cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price would likely decline rapidly. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have not received any written comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that remain unresolved. 