ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We face a number of significant risks and uncertainties in connection with our operations. Our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by the factors described below. While we describe each risk separately, some of these risks are interrelated and certain risks could trigger the applicability of other risks described below. Also, the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only 15 Table of Contents ones that we may face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently do not consider significant, could also potentially impair, and have a material adverse effect on, our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be vulnerable to certain sectors of the economy. A substantial portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate. In a weak economy, or in areas where real estate market conditions are distressed, we may experience a higher than normal level of nonperforming real estate loans, the collateral value of the portfolio and the revenue stream from those loans could come under stress, and additional provisions to the allowance for loan losses could be necessitated. Our ability to dispose of foreclosed real estate at prices above the respective carrying values could also be impaired, causing additional losses. The financial soundness and stability of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and financial soundness and stability of other financial institutions as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships between such institutions. We routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, and even rumors regarding, other financial institutions, or the financial services industry generally, could impair our ability to effect such transactions and could lead to losses or defaults by us. In addition, many of our transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of a counterparty or client. Additionally, our credit risk may be increased if the collateral we hold in connection with such transactions cannot be realized or can only be liquidated at prices insufficient to recover the full amount of our financial exposure. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to a risk of rapid and significant changes in market interest rates. Our assets and liabilities are primarily monetary in nature, and as a result, we are subject to significant risks tied to changes in interest rates. Our ability to operate profitably is largely dependent upon net interest income. Unexpected movement in interest rates markedly changing the slope of the current yield curve could cause our net interest margins to decrease, subsequently reducing net interest income. In addition, such changes could adversely affect the valuation of our assets and liabilities. Certain changes in mortgage originations, interest rates, inflation, deflation, or the financial markets could affect demand for our products and our ability to deliver products efficiently. Loan originations, and potentially loan revenues, could be adversely impacted by sharply rising interest rates as well as by the new changes in the mortgage rules issued by the CFPB. Sharply falling rates could increase prepayments within our securities portfolio lowering interest earnings from those investments. The new mortgage rules could limit our ability to originate mortgages to borrowers that do not meet or are unable to meet the standards set forth in the new mortgage regulations. An underperforming stock market could reduce brokerage transactions, therefore reducing investment brokerage revenues. In addition, wealth management fees associated with managed securities portfolios could also be adversely affected. An unanticipated increase in inflation could cause our operating costs related to salaries and benefits, technology, and supplies to increase at a faster pace than revenues. The fair market value of our securities portfolio and the investment income from these securities also fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions. In addition, actual net investment income and/or cash flows from investments that carry prepayment risk, such as mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities, may differ from those anticipated at the time of investment as a result of interest rate fluctuations. 16 Table of Contents Changes in the policies of monetary authorities and other government action could adversely affect our profitability. Our financial performance is affected by credit policies of monetary authorities, particularly the Federal Reserve Board. The instruments of monetary policy employed by the Federal Reserve Board include open market transactions in U.S. government securities, changes in the discount rate or the federal funds rate on bank borrowings and changes in reserve requirements against bank deposits. In view of changing conditions in the national economy and in the money markets, we cannot predict the potential impact of future changes in interest rates, deposit levels, and loan demand on our business and earnings. Furthermore, the actions of the United States government and other governments may result in currency fluctuations, exchange controls, market disruption and other adverse effects. A failure in our operational systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties, could impair our liquidity, disrupt our businesses, result in the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation and cause financial losses. Our ability to adequately conduct and grow our business is dependent on our ability to create and maintain an appropriate operational and organizational control infrastructure. Operational risk can arise in numerous ways including employee fraud, customer fraud, and control lapses in bank operations and information technology. Our dependence on our employees and automated systems, including the automated systems used by acquired entities and third parties, to record and process transactions may further increase the risk that technical failures or tampering of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. We are also subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control. Failure to maintain an appropriate operational infrastructure can lead to loss of service to customers, legal actions, and noncompliance with various laws and regulations. We continuously monitor our operational and technological capabilities and make modifications and improvements when we believe it will be cost effective to do so. In some instances, we may build and maintain these capabilities ourselves. We also outsource some of these functions to third parties. These third parties may experience errors or disruptions that could adversely impact us and over which we may have limited control. We also face risk from the integration of new infrastructure platforms and/or new third party providers of such platforms into its existing businesses. An interruption or breach in our information systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties, could disrupt our business, result in the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation and cause financial losses. Our business is dependent on our ability to process and monitor a large number of transactions on a daily basis and to securely process, store and transmit confidential and other information on our computer systems and networks. We rely heavily on our information and communications systems and those of third parties who provide critical components of our information and communications infrastructure. These systems are critical to the operation of our business and essential to our ability to perform day-to-day operations. Our financial, accounting, data processing or other information systems and facilities, or those of third parties on whom we rely, may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, such as a spike in transaction volume, cyber-attack or other unforeseen catastrophic events, which may adversely affect our ability to process transactions or provide services. Although we make continuous efforts to maintain the security and integrity of our information systems and have not experienced a significant, successful cyber-attack, threats to information systems continue to evolve and there can be no assurance that our security efforts and measures will continue to be effective. The risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber-attack or cyber intrusion, has increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased. Threats to our 17 Table of Contents information systems may originate externally from third parties such as foreign governments, organized crime and other hackers, outsource or infrastructure-support providers and application developers, or may originate internally. As a financial institution, we face a heightened risk of a security breach or disruption from attempts to gain unauthorized access to our and our customers’ data and financial information, whether through cyber-attack, cyber intrusion over the internet, malware, computer viruses, attachments to e-mails, spoofing, phishing, or spyware. As a result, our information, communications and related systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to breaches or other significant disruptions that could: (1) disrupt the proper functioning of our networks and systems, which could disrupt our operations and those of certain of our customers; (2) result in the unauthorized access to, and destruction, loss, theft, misappropriation or release of confidential, sensitive or otherwise valuable information of ours or our customers, including account numbers and other financial information; (3) result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, subjecting the Bank to additional regulatory scrutiny and expose the Bank to civil litigation and possible financial liability; (4) require significant management attention and resources to remedy the damages that result; and (5) harm our reputation or impair our customer relationships. The occurrence of such failures, disruptions or security breaches could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. To date we have not experienced an attack that has impacted the results of our operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Natural disasters could affect our ability to operate. Our market areas are susceptible to hurricanes. Natural disasters, such as hurricanes, can disrupt our operations, result in significant damage to properties and interrupt our ability to conduct business, and negatively affect the local economies in which we operate. We cannot predict whether or to what extent damage caused by future hurricanes will affect our operations or the economies in our market areas, but such weather events could cause a decline in loan originations, a decline in the value or destruction of properties securing the loans and an increase in the risk of delinquencies, foreclosures or loan losses. Greater loan losses than expected may adversely affect our earnings. We are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans in accordance with their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans may not be sufficient to assure repayment. Credit risk is inherent in the business of making loans and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our credit risk with respect to our real estate and construction loan portfolio relates principally to the creditworthiness of our corporate borrowers and the value of the real estate pledged as security for the repayment of loans. Our credit risk with respect to our commercial and consumer loan portfolio will relate principally to the general creditworthiness of businesses and individuals within our local markets. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for estimated loan losses based on a number of factors. If our assumptions or judgments prove to be incorrect, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses. We may have to increase our allowance in the future in response to the request of one of our primary banking regulators, to adjust for changing conditions and assumptions, or as a result of any deterioration in the quality of our loan portfolio. Future provisions for loan losses may vary materially from the amounts of past provisions. Failure to comply with the terms of loss sharing arrangements with the FDIC may result in significant losses. Any failure to comply with the terms of any loss share agreements that we have with the FDIC, or to properly service the loans and foreclosed assets covered by loss share agreements, may cause individual loans, large pools 18 Table of Contents of loans or other covered assets to lose eligibility for reimbursement to the Company from the FDIC. This could result in material losses that are currently not anticipated and could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. Returns on pension plan assets may not be adequate to cover future funding requirements. Investments in the portfolio of our defined benefit pension plan may not provide adequate returns to fully fund benefits as they come due, thus causing higher annual plan expenses and requiring additional contributions by us. We may need to rely on the financial markets to provide needed capital. Our stock is listed and traded on the NASDAQ Global Select. If our capital resources prove in the future to be inadequate to meet our capital requirements, we may need to raise additional equity. If the market should fail to operate, or if conditions in the capital markets are adverse, we may be constrained in raising capital. We maintain a consistent analyst following; therefore, downgrades in our prospects by an analyst(s) may cause our stock price to fall and significantly limit our ability to access the markets for additional capital requirements. Sales of a significant number of shares of our Common Stock in the public markets, or the perception of such sales, could depress the market price of our Common Stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our Common Stock in the public markets and the availability of those shares for sale could adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. In addition, future issuances of equity securities, including pursuant to outstanding options, could dilute the interests of our existing stockholders, including you, and could cause the market price of our Common Stock to decline. We may issue such additional equity or convertible securities to raise additional capital. The issuance of any additional shares of common or preferred stock could be substantially dilutive to shareholders of our Common Stock. Moreover, to the extent that we issue restricted stock units, phantom shares, stock appreciation rights, options or warrants to purchase our Common Stock in the future and those stock appreciation rights, options or warrants are exercised or as the restricted stock units vest, our shareholders may experience further dilution. Holders of our shares of Common Stock do not have preemptive rights; therefore, future stock offerings could dilute our shareholders. We cannot predict the effect that future sales of our Common Stock would have on the market price of our Common Stock. Our future growth and financial performance may be negatively affected if we are unable to successfully execute our growth plans. We may not be able to continue our organic, or internal, growth, which depends upon economic conditions, our ability to identify appropriate markets for expansion, our ability to recruit and retain qualified personnel, our ability to fund growth at a reasonable cost, sufficient capital to support our growth initiatives, competitive factors, banking laws, and other factors. We may seek to supplement our internal growth through acquisitions. We cannot predict the number, size or timing of acquisitions, or whether any such acquisition will occur at all. Our acquisition efforts have traditionally focused on targeted banking or insurance entities in markets in which we currently operate and markets in which we believe we can compete effectively. However, as consolidation of the financial services industry continues, the competition for suitable acquisition candidates may increase. We may compete with other financial services companies for acquisition opportunities, and many of these competitors have greater financial resources than we do and may be able to pay more for an acquisition than we are able or willing to pay. We also may need additional debt or equity financing in the future to fund acquisitions. We may not be able to obtain additional financing or, if available, it may not be in amounts and on terms acceptable to us. If we are unable to locate suitable acquisition candidates willing to sell on terms acceptable to us, or we are otherwise unable to obtain 19 Table of Contents additional debt or equity financing necessary for us to continue making acquisitions, we would be required to find other methods to grow our business and we may not grow at the same rate we have in the past, or at all. We must generally receive federal regulatory approval before we can acquire a bank or bank holding company. In determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition, federal bank regulators will consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on the competition, financial condition, and future prospects. The regulators also review current and projected capital ratios and levels, the competence, experience, and integrity of management and its record of compliance with laws and regulations, the convenience and needs of the communities to be served (including the acquiring institution’s record of compliance under the Community Reinvestment Act) and the effectiveness of the acquiring institution in combating money laundering activities. We cannot be certain when or if, or on what terms and conditions, any required regulatory approvals will be granted. We may also be required to sell banks or branches as a condition to receiving regulatory approval, which condition may not be acceptable to us or, if acceptable to us, may reduce the benefit of any acquisition. In addition to the acquisition of existing financial institutions, as opportunities arise, we plan to continue de novo branching as a part of our internal growth strategy and possibly entry into new markets through de novo branching. De novo branching and any acquisition carry numerous risks, including the following: • the inability to obtain all required regulatory approvals; • significant costs and anticipated operating losses associated with establishing a de novo branch or a new bank; • the inability to secure the services of qualified senior management; • the local market may not accept the services of a new bank owned and managed by a bank holding company headquartered outside of the market area of the new bank; • economic downturns in the new market; • the inability to obtain attractive locations within a new market at a reasonable cost; and • the additional strain on management resources and internal systems and controls. We have experienced to some extent many of these risks with our de novo branching to date. Our inability to control the inherent risks of acquiring businesses and assets could adversely affect our operations. Acquisitions of businesses in the financial services industry are an important element of our business strategy. We cannot assure that we will be able to identify and acquire businesses in execution of this strategy on terms acceptable to us in the future. We must also generally satisfy several conditions before we complete an acquisition of another bank or bank holding company, including federal and/or state regulatory approvals. We may be required to incur substantial indebtedness to finance future acquisitions. Such additional debt service requirements may impose a significant burden on our results of operations and financial condition. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully consolidate any business or assets we acquire with our existing business. The integration of acquired operations and assets may require substantial management effort, time and resources and may divert management’s focus from other strategic opportunities and operational matters. Acquisitions may not perform as expected when the transaction was consummated and may be dilutive to our overall operating results. We are subject to regulation by various Federal and State entities. We are subject to the regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), the Federal Reserve Board, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the Mississippi 20 Table of Contents Department of Banking and Consumer Finance, and the Louisiana Office of Financial Institutions. New regulations issued by these agencies may adversely affect our ability to carry on our business activities. We are subject to various Federal and State laws and certain changes in these laws and regulations may adversely affect our operations. Noncompliance with certain of these regulations may impact our business plans, including ability to branch, offer certain products, or execute existing or planned business strategies. For example, the Dodd-Frank Act contains various provisions designed to enhance the regulation of depository institutions and prevent the recurrence of a financial crisis such as occurred in 2008-2009. New regulations from the CFPB, which was established by the Dodd-Frank Act, such as the Ability to Repay Rules, may materially raise the risk of consummating consumer credit transactions. The full impact on our business and operations will not be fully known for years until regulations implementing the statute are fully applied. These new rules issued in the wake of the Dodd Frank Act may have a material impact on our operations, particularly through increased compliance costs resulting from possible future consumer and fair lending regulations. Additionally, the rules implementing the “Basel III” regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act may have significant impacts on our regulatory capital levels. Basel III and its regulations will require bank holding companies and banks to undertake significant activities to demonstrate compliance with the new and higher capital standards. Compliance with these rules, when they become effective, will impose additional costs on banking entities and their holding companies. For additional information regarding the Dodd-Frank Act and Basel III, see “Supervision and Regulation.” We are also subject to the accounting rules and regulations of the SEC and the Financial Accounting Standards Board. Changes in accounting rules could adversely affect the reported financial statements or our results of operations and may also require extraordinary efforts or additional costs to implement. Any of these laws or regulations may be modified or changed from time to time, and we cannot be assured that such modifications or changes will not adversely affect us. Changes in accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial condition and results of operations. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions that affect the financial statements by affecting the value of our assets or liabilities and results of operations. Some of our accounting policies are critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because materially different amounts may be reported if different estimates or assumptions were used. If such estimates or assumptions underlying the financial statements are incorrect, we could experience material losses. From time to time, FASB and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards or the interpretation of such standards that govern the preparation of our external financial statements. These changes are beyond our control, can be difficult to predict and could materially impact how we report our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, it is possible, if unlikely, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retrospectively, resulting in the restatement of prior period financial statements in material amounts. We are subject to industry competition which may have an impact upon our success. Our profitability depends on our ability to compete successfully. We operate in a highly competitive financial services environment. Certain competitors are larger and may have more resources than we do. We face competition in our regional market areas from other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, internet banks, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, brokerage and investment banking firms, and other financial intermediaries that offer similar services. Some of our nonbank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern us or the Bank and may have greater flexibility in competing for business. 21 Table of Contents Another competitive factor is that the financial services market, including banking services, is undergoing rapid changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. Our future success may depend, in part, on our ability to use technology competitively to provide products and services that provide convenience to customers and create additional efficiencies in our operations. We and other financial institutions have been the subject of increased litigation which could result in legal liability and damage to our reputation. We and certain of our directors and officers may be named from time to time as defendants in various class actions and other litigation relating to our business and activities. Past, present and future litigation have included or could include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. We are also involved from time to time in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding our business. These matters also could result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. Like other financial institutions and companies, we are also subject to risk from employee misconduct, including non-compliance with policies and improper use or disclosure of confidential information. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations and/or cause significant reputational harm to our business. We may issue debt and equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities, any of which may be senior to our Common Stock as to distributions and in liquidation, which could negatively affect the value of our Common Stock. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by entering into debt or debt-like financing that is unsecured or secured by all or up to all of our assets, or by issuing additional debt or equity securities, which could include issuances of secured or unsecured commercial paper, medium-term notes, senior notes, subordinated notes, preferred stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for equity securities. In the event of our liquidation, our lenders and holders of our debt and preferred securities would receive a distribution of our available assets before distributions to the holders of our Common Stock. Because our decision to incur debt and issue securities in our future offerings will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings and debt financings. Further, market conditions could require us to accept less favorable terms for the issuance of our securities in the future. Our ability to deliver and pay dividends depends primarily upon the results of operations of our subsidiaries. We are a bank holding company that conducts substantially all of our operations through our subsidiary Banks. As a result, our ability to make dividend payments on our Common Stock will depend primarily upon the receipt of dividends and other distributions from our subsidiaries. The ability of the Banks to pay dividends or make other payments to us is limited by their obligations to maintain sufficient capital and by other general regulatory restrictions on their dividends. If these requirements are not satisfied, we will be unable to pay dividends on our Common Stock. We may also decide to limit the payment of dividends even when we have the legal ability to pay them in order to retain earnings for use in our business. There can be no assurance of whether or when we may pay dividends in the future. 22 Table of Contents We and/or the holders of our securities could be adversely affected by unfavorable rating actions from rating agencies. Our ability to access the capital markets is important to our overall funding profile. This access is affected by the ratings assigned by rating agencies to us, certain of our affiliates and particular classes of securities that we and our affiliates issue. The interest rates that we pay on our securities are also influenced by, among other things, the credit ratings that we, our affiliates and/or our securities receive from recognized rating agencies. A downgrade to us, our affiliates or our securities could create obligations or liabilities to us under the terms of our outstanding securities that could increase our costs or otherwise have a negative effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Additionally, a downgrade of the credit rating of any particular security issued by us or our affiliates could negatively affect the ability of the holders of that security to sell the securities and the prices at which any such securities may be sold. Anti-takeover provisions in our amended articles of incorporation and bylaws, Mississippi law, and our Shareholder Rights Plan could make a third party acquisition of us difficult and may adversely affect share value. Our amended articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us (even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders) and for holders of our securities to receive any related takeover premium for their securities. In addition, under our Shareholder Rights Plan, “rights” are issued to all Hancock common shareholders that, if activated upon an attempted unfriendly acquisition, would allow our shareholders to buy our common stock at a reduced price, thereby minimizing the risk of any potential hostile takeover. We are also subject to certain provisions of state and federal law and our articles of incorporation may make it more difficult for someone to acquire control of us. Under federal law, subject to certain exemptions, a person, entity, or group must notify the federal banking agencies before acquiring 10% or more of the outstanding voting stock of a bank holding company, including our shares. Banking agencies review the acquisition to determine if it will result in a change of control. The banking agencies have 60 days to act on the notice, and take into account several factors, including the resources of the acquirer and the antitrust effects of the acquisition. There also are Mississippi statutory provisions and provisions in our articles of incorporation that may be used to delay or block a takeover attempt. As a result, these statutory provisions and provisions in our articles of incorporation could result in our being less attractive to a potential acquirer and limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Governmental responses to recent market disruptions may be inadequate and may have unintended consequences. As legislators and financial regulators continue to implement measures intended to increase greater stability in the financial markets, the overall effects of these efforts on the financial markets are uncertain, and if they ultimately fail to stabilize the financial markets, the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, the implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act has resulted in significant changes to the banking industry as a whole which, depending on how its provisions are implemented by the agencies, could adversely affect the Company’s business. In addition, the Company competes with a number of financial services companies that are not subject to the same degree of regulatory oversight to which the Company is subject. The impact of the existing regulatory framework and any future changes to it could negatively affect the Company’s ability to compete with these institutions, which could have a material and adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and prospects. 23 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 