ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Making or continuing an investment in securities issued by us, including our common stock, involves certain risks that you should carefully consider. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks that may have a material adverse effect on us. Additional risks and uncertainties also could adversely affect our business and results of operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected, the market price for your securities could decline, and you could lose all or a part of your investment. Further, to the extent that any of the information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K constitutes forward-looking statements, the risk factors set forth below also are cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of us. 10 We may be vulnerable to certain sectors of the economy. A portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate. If the economy deteriorated and depressed real estate values beyond a certain point, that collateral value of the portfolio and the revenue stream from those loans could come under stress and possibly require additional provision to the allowance for loan losses. Our ability to dispose of foreclosed real estate at prices above the respective carrying values could also be impinged, causing additional losses. General economic conditions in the areas where our operations or loans are concentrated may adversely affect our customers' ability to meet their obligations. A sudden or severe downturn in the economy in the geographic markets served by us in the states of Mississippi, Louisiana, Alabama, and Florida may affect the ability of our customers to meet loan payment obligations on a timely basis. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on our commercial, real estate, and construction loans, the ability of borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing such loans. Changes resulting in adverse economic conditions of our market areas could negatively impact the financial results of our banking operations and our profitability. Additionally, adverse economic changes may cause customers to withdraw deposit balances, thereby causing a strain on our liquidity. We are subject to a risk of rapid and significant changes in market interest rates. Our assets and liabilities are primarily monetary in nature, and as a result we are subject to significant risks tied to changes in interest rates. Our ability to operate profitably is largely dependent upon net interest income. Unexpected movement in interest rates markedly changing the slope of the current yield curve could cause our net interest margins to decrease, subsequently decreasing net interest income. In addition, such changes could adversely affect the valuation of our assets and liabilities. At present our one-year interest rate sensitivity position is moderately asset sensitive, such that a gradual increase in interest rates during the next twelve months should not have a significant impact on net interest income during that period. However, as with most financial institutions, our results of operations are affected by changes in interest rates and our ability to manage this risk. The difference between interest rates charged on interest-earning assets and interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities may be affected by changes in market interest rates, changes in relationships between interest rate indices, and/or changes in the relationships between long-term and short-term market interest rates. A change in this difference might result in an increase in interest expense relative to interest income, or a decrease in our interest rate spread. Certain changes in interest rates, inflation, or the financial markets could affect demand for our products and our ability to deliver products efficiently. Loan originations, and potentially loan revenues, could be adversely impacted by sharply rising interest rates. Conversely, sharply falling rates could increase prepayments within our securities portfolio lowering interest earnings from those investments. An underperforming stock market could reduce brokerage transactions, therefore reducing investment brokerage revenues; in addition, wealth management fees associated with managed securities portfolios could also be adversely affected. An unanticipated increase in inflation could cause our operating costs related to salaries & benefits, technology, and supplies to increase at a faster pace than revenues. The fair market value of our securities portfolio and the investment income from these securities also fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions. In addition, actual net investment income and/or cash flows from investments that carry prepayment risk, such as mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities, may differ from those anticipated at the time of investment as a result of interest rate fluctuations. Changes in the policies of monetary authorities and other government action could adversely affect our profitability. The results of operations are affected by credit policies of monetary authorities, particularly the Federal Reserve Board. The instruments of monetary policy employed by the Federal Reserve Board include open market operations in U.S. government securities, changes in the discount rate or the federal funds rate on bank borrowings and changes in reserve requirements against bank deposits. In view of changing conditions in the national economy and in the money markets, particularly in light of the continuing threat of terrorist attacks and the current military operations in the Middle East, we cannot predict possible future changes in interest rates, deposit levels, loan demand or our business and earnings. Furthermore, the actions of the United States government and other governments in responding to such terrorist attacks or the military operations in the Middle East may result in currency fluctuations, exchange controls, market disruption and other adverse effects. 11 Natural disasters could affect our ability to operate. Our market areas are susceptible to hurricanes. Natural disasters, such as hurricanes, can disrupt our operations, result in damage to properties and negatively affect the local economies in which we operate. We cannot predict whether or to what extent damage caused by future hurricanes will affect our operations or the economies in our market areas, but such weather events could cause a decline in loan originations, a decline in the value or destruction of properties securing the loans and an increase in the risk of delinquencies, foreclosures or loan losses. Insurance As a result of Hurricane Katrina and other storms, windstorm insurance costs have increased during the past year regionally, and have also increased for all of our properties. Currently, we have total windstorm coverage on our Mississippi branches with property values of $30.4 million subject to a 2% deductible per location. We also have separate flood coverage on the branches that flooded during Hurricane Katrina. Our corporate headquarters located in downtown Gulfport, MS has a $15 million deductible and the branches have a $100,000 deductible per occurrence for fire and lightning losses. We also maintain business interruption insurance. We rely on our own liquidity during the hurricane season to cover two to three months of overhead costs, and we maintain additional capital to satisfy any emergency repairs before insurance recoveries are received. The future availability and costs of windstorm and flood insurance are unknown, but this factor may result in additional insurance costs to us. Greater loan losses than expected may adversely affect our earnings. We as lender are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans in accordance with their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans may not be sufficient to assure repayment. Credit losses are inherent in the business of making loans and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our credit risk with respect to our real estate and construction loan portfolio will relate principally to the creditworthiness of corporations and the value of the real estate serving as security for the repayment of loans. Our credit risk with respect to our commercial and consumer loan portfolio will relate principally to the general creditworthiness of businesses and individuals within our local markets. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for estimated loan losses based on a number of factors. We believe that our current allowance for loan losses is adequate. However, if our assumptions or judgments prove to be incorrect, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses. We may have to increase our allowance in the future in response to the request of one of our primary banking regulators, to adjust for changing conditions and assumptions, or as a result of any deterioration in the quality of our loan portfolio. The actual amount of future provisions for loan losses cannot be determined at this time and may vary from the amounts of past provisions. The projected benefit obligations of our pension plan exceed the fair market value of the Plan's assets. Investments in the portfolio of our pension plan may not provide adequate returns to fully fund benefits as they come due, thus causing higher annual plan expenses and requiring additional contributions by us. 12 We may need to rely on the financial markets to provide needed capital. Our stock is listed and traded on the NASDAQ Global Select. Although we anticipate that our capital resources will be adequate for the foreseeable future to meet our capital requirements, at times we may depend on the liquidity of the NASDAQ market to raise equity capital. If the market should fail to operate, or if conditions in the capital markets are adverse, we may be constrained in raising capital. We maintain a consistent analyst following; therefore, downgrades in our prospects by an analyst(s) may cause our stock price to fall and significantly limit our ability to access the markets for additional capital requirements. Should these risks materialize, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth may be limited. We are subject to regulation by various Federal and State entities. We are subject to the regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), the Federal Reserve Board, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Mississippi Department of Banking and Consumer Finance, the Louisiana Office of Financial Institutions, the Florida Office of Financial Regulation, the Alabama Banking Department and the Mississippi Department of Insurance. New regulations issued by these agencies may adversely affect our ability to carry on our business activities. We are subject to various Federal and State laws and certain changes in these laws and regulations may adversely affect our operations. Non compliance with certain of these regulations may impact our business plans, including ability to branch, offer certain products, or execute existing or planned business strategies. We are also subject to the accounting rules and regulations of the SEC and the Financial Accounting Standards Board. Changes in accounting rules could adversely affect the reported financial statements or our results of operations and may also require extraordinary efforts or additional costs to implement. Any of these laws or regulations may be modified or changed from time to time, and we cannot be assured that such modifications or changes will not adversely affect us. We engage in acquisitions of other businesses from time to time. On occasion, we will engage in acquisitions of other businesses. Inability to successfully integrate acquired businesses can pose varied risks to us, including customer and employee turnover, thus increasing the cost of operating the new businesses. The acquired companies may also have legal contingencies, beyond those that we are aware of, that could result in unexpected costs. Moreover, there can be no assurance that acquired businesses will achieve prior or planned results of operations. We are subject to industry competition which may have an impact upon our success. Our profitability depends on our ability to compete successfully. We operate in a highly competitive financial services environment. Certain competitors are larger and may have more resources than we do. We face competition in our regional market areas from other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, internet banks, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, brokerage and investment banking firms, and other financial intermediaries that offer similar services. Some of our nonbank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern us or the Bank and may have greater flexibility in competing for business. Another competitive factor is that the financial services market, including banking services, is undergoing rapid changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. Our future success may depend, in part, on its ability to use technology competitively to provide products and services that provide convenience to customers and create additional efficiencies in our operations. Future issuances of additional securities could result in dilution of shareholders' ownership. We may determine from time to time to issue additional securities to raise additional capital, support growth, or to make acquisitions. Further, we may issue stock options or other stock grants to retain and motivate our employees. Such issuances of our securities will dilute the ownership interests of our shareholders. 13 Anti-takeover laws and certain agreements and charter provisions may adversely affect share value. Certain provisions of state and federal law and our articles of incorporation may make it more difficult for someone to acquire control of us. Under federal law, subject to certain exemptions, a person, entity, or group must notify the federal banking agencies before acquiring 10% or more of the outstanding voting stock of a bank holding company, including our shares. Banking agencies review the acquisition to determine if it will result in a change of control. The banking agencies have 60 days to act on the notice, and take into account several factors, including the resources of the acquirer and the antitrust effects of the acquisition. There also are Mississippi statutory provisions and provisions in our articles of incorporation that may be used to delay or block a takeover attempt. As a result, these statutory provisions and provisions in our articles of incorporation could result in our being less attractive to a potential acquirer. Securities issued by us, including our common stock, are not FDIC insured. Securities issued by us, including our common stock, are not savings or deposit accounts or other obligations of any bank and are not insured by the FDIC, the Bank Insurance Fund, or any other governmental agency or instrumentality, or any private insurer, and are subject to investment risk, including the possible loss of principal. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 