ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Any of the following risks could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition and an investment in our stock. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. 15 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that recent legislation and administrative actions will improve the long term stability of the U.S. financial system. Numerous actions by the U.S. Congress, the Federal Reserve, the Treasury, the FDIC, the SEC and other governmental authorities have been taken to address the liquidity and credit crisis that commenced in 2007. These measures include various actions described under “Supervision and Regulation.” We cannot predict the actual effects of the Dodd-Frank Act, various governmental, regulatory, and fiscal and monetary initiatives, studies and rulemakings which have been and may be enacted, adopted or proposed will have on the financial markets, our competitors, counterparties and customers and on us. The terms and costs of these activities, or the failure of these actions to continue to stabilize the financial markets, asset prices, market liquidity or a worsening of current financial market and economic conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and the trading prices of our common stock. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected our industry. We are exposed to downturns in the U.S. economy, although the local markets in which we operate in East Alabama have not been as adversely affected as various other areas of the country. Declines in the housing market over the past year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively affected the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by various financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities as well as major commercial and investment banks. This market turmoil and the tightening of available credit have led to increased levels of commercial and consumer delinquencies, reduced consumer confidence, increased market volatility and reductions in business activity. Failures have increased among financial services companies, and various companies, weakened by market conditions, have merged with other institutions. We do not expect that the difficult conditions in the financial markets are likely to improve in the near future, although our business has not been materially affected through December 31, 2010. A worsening of these conditions would likely increase the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and other financial institutions. In particular: • We expect to face further increased regulation of our industry as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and other initiatives by the U.S. government. Compliance with such regulations may increase our costs, reduce our profitability, and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. • Market developments may continue to affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment behaviors and payment rates, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which could affect our charge-offs and provision for credit losses. • Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers and those we do business with, and to estimate the values of our assets and collateral for loans may be impaired if the models and approaches we use become less predictive of future behaviors, valuations, assumptions or estimates. The process we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure or estimate the value of certain assets requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic predictions might affect the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans or the value of assets. • Our ability to borrow from and engage in other business with other financial institutions on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including, among other things, deteriorating investor expectations and changes in regulations. • Our investments in trust preferred securities and securities backed by pools of trust preferred securities, issued by, and loans and loan participations purchased from other financial institutions, and financial institutions in which we have common stock or equity investments could be materially and adversely affected, if these institutions exercise or continue to exercise their rights to defer payment on their trust preferred securities, experience financial difficulties, defer payments on or reduce or eliminate dividends or distributions on their securities that we hold, are subject to regulatory enforcement actions, or fail. • Failures of other depository institutions in our markets and increasing consolidation of financial services companies as a result of current market conditions could increase our deposits and assets and necessitate additional capital, and could have unexpected adverse effects upon us and our business. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine investment and banking transactions, as well as the quality and values of our investments in equity securities and obligations of other financial institutions, could be adversely affected by the actions, financial condition, and profitability of such other financial institutions with which we deal, including, without limitation, the FHLB and our correspondent banks. At December 31, 2010, the amortized cost of the Bank’s investment in FHLB 16 Table of Contents common stock, individual issuer trust preferred securities of financial institutions, and pooled trust preferred securities of other financial institutions was approximately $5.2 million, $2.3 million, and $0.2 million, respectively. In 2009, Silverton Bank, N.A., one of our correspondent banks, failed, which had a material adverse effect on our 2009 results of operations. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty and other relationships. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems, losses of depositor, creditor or counterparty confidence in certain institutions and could lead to losses or defaults by other institutions, and in some cases, failure of such institutions. Any losses, defaults by, or failures of, the institutions we do business with could adversely affect our holdings of the debt of and equity in, such other institutions, our participation interests in loans originated by other institutions, and our business, including our liquidity, financial condition and earnings. Nonperforming assets take significant time to resolve and may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. At December 31, 2010, our nonaccrual loans totaled $11.8 million, or 3.16% of the loan portfolio. In addition, we had approximately $8.1 million of other real estate owned at December 31, 2010. Our non-performing assets may adversely affect our net income in various ways. We do not record interest income on non-accrual loans or other real estate owned, thereby adversely affecting our income, and increasing our loan administration costs. Decreases in the value of these assets, or the underlying collateral, or in these borrowers’ performance or financial condition, whether or not due to economic and market conditions beyond our control, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the resolution of nonperforming assets requires commitments of time from management, which can be detrimental to the performance of their other responsibilities. There can be no assurance that we will not experience further increases in nonperforming loans in the future. Our allowance for loan losses may prove inadequate or we may be negatively affected by credit risk exposures. Our business depends on the creditworthiness of our customers. We periodically review our allowance for loan losses for adequacy considering economic conditions and trends, collateral values and credit quality indicators, including past charge-off experience and levels of past due loans and nonperforming assets. We cannot be certain that our allowance for loan losses will be adequate over time to cover credit losses in our portfolio because of unanticipated adverse changes in the economy, market conditions or events adversely affecting specific customers, industries or markets. If the credit quality of our customer base materially decreases, if the risk profile of a market, industry or group of customers changes materially or weaknesses in the real estate markets persist or worsen, borrower payment behaviors change, or if our allowance for loan losses is not adequate, our business, financial condition, including our liquidity and capital, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Weaknesses in the real estate markets, including the secondary market for residential mortgage loans, may continue to adversely affect us. The Lee County Association of Realtors (“LCAR”) of Alabama reported that the average median residential home price in Lee County for the quarter ended December 31, 2010 was $183,933, an increase of 13.0% from the same quarter a year earlier. Although the reported increase in home values in this market is a positive sign, the number of homes sold during the quarter ended December 31, 2010 declined by 17.2% from the same quarter a year ago. LCAR also reported that residential inventory at December 31, 2010 was 1,248 homes, an increase of 10.7% from a year earlier and the average number of days on the market for the quarter ended December 31, 2010 was 187 days, an increase of 12.7% from the same quarter last year. The effects of ongoing mortgage market challenges, combined with the ongoing correction in residential real estate market prices and reduced levels of home sales, could result in further price reductions in single family home values, further adversely affecting the liquidity and value of collateral securing commercial loans for residential acquisition, construction and development, as well as residential mortgage loans that we hold, mortgage loan originations and gains on sale of mortgage loans. Declining real estate prices and higher interest rates charged on mortgage loans have caused higher delinquencies and losses on certain mortgage loans, generally, particularly second lien mortgages and home equity lines of credit. Significant ongoing disruptions in the secondary market for residential mortgage loans have limited the market for and liquidity of most mortgage loans other than conforming Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac loans. These trends could continue. Continued declines in real estate values, home sales volumes and financial stress on borrowers as a result of job losses, interest rate resets on adjustable rate mortgage loans or other factors could have further adverse effects on borrowers that result in higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods, which would adversely affect our financial condition, including capital and liquidity, or our results of operations. In the event our allowance for loan losses is insufficient to cover such losses, our earnings, capital and liquidity could be adversely affected. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the largest purchasers of residential mortgage loans remain in federal conservatorship and the timing and effects of their resolution cannot be predicted. 17 Table of Contents Weaknesses in real estate markets may adversely affect the length of time required to dispose of, and the values realized from the sale of, our other real estate owned. We have no control over the sale of other real estate owned where the FDIC has the controlling interest as a result of the FDIC receivership of Silverton Bank. Our real estate portfolios are exposed to general weaknesses in the markets and the overall state of the economy. The declines in home prices, generally, along with the reduced availability of mortgage credit, have resulted in increases in delinquencies and losses in our portfolios of home equity lines and loans, and commercial loans related to residential real estate acquisition, construction and development. Further declines in home prices coupled with an economic recession and associated rises in unemployment levels could drive losses beyond that which is provided for in our allowance for loan losses. In that event, our earnings, financial condition, including our capital and liquidity, could be adversely affected. Our concentration of commercial real estate loans could result in further increased loan losses. Commercial real estate or CRE is cyclical and poses risks of possible loss due to concentration levels and risks of the assets being financed, which include loans for the acquisition and development of land and residential construction. We had 56.4% of our portfolio in CRE loans, as defined by the banking regulators, at year-end 2010 and 55.9% at year-end 2009. The banking regulators continue to give CRE lending greater scrutiny, and require banks with higher levels of CRE loans to implement improved underwriting, internal controls, risk management policies and portfolio stress testing, as well as higher levels of allowances for possible losses and capital levels as a result of CRE lending growth and exposures. We may be contractually obligated to repurchase mortgage loans we sold to third parties on terms unfavorable to us. As a routine part of its business, the Company originates mortgage loans that it subsequently sells in the secondary market, including to governmental agencies and government sponsored utilities such as Fannie Mae. In connection with the sale of these loans, the Company makes customary representations and warranties, the breach of which could result in the Company being required to repurchase the loan or loans. Furthermore, the amount paid may be greater than the fair value of the loan or loans at the time of the repurchase. Servicing requirements may change and require us to incur additional costs and risks. The United States Department of Justice and various state attorney generals are negotiating a proposed settlement with various large residential mortgage loan servicers over practices alleged to improper or unfair to consumers, including foreclosure practices. While the outcome of these negotiations cannot be predicted, they may affect mortgage servicing standards generally, and increase the compliance and other costs of servicing residential mortgage loans. This could reduce our income from servicing these types of loans and make it more difficult and costly to timely realize the value of collateral securing such loans upon a borrower default. Costs of insuring our deposits remain high. FDIC insurance premiums increased substantially in 2009 and we expect to pay significantly higher FDIC insurance premiums and guarantee fees in the future. Market developments have significantly depleted the FDIC’s DIF and reduced the FDIC’s ratio of reserves to insured deposits. The FDIC has also required all FDIC-insured institutions to prepay their estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012, which we paid on December 30, 2009, and has implemented a new risk-based assessment system upon all liabilities (not just insured deposits) and increased the DIF’s designated reserve ratio, as described more fully under “Supervision and Regulation – FDIC Insurance Assessments.” We have experienced high levels of market volatility. The capital and credit markets have experienced volatility and disruption since 2007. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial condition or performance. Although market disruptions and volatility have stabilized, there can be no assurance that we will not experience future market conditions and volatility, which may have material adverse effects on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents Our ability to realize our deferred tax assets may be further reduced in the future if our estimates of future taxable income from our operations and tax planning strategies do not support this amount, and the amount of net operating loss carry-forwards realizable for income tax purposes may be reduced under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code by sales of our capital securities. We are allowed to carry-back losses for five years for Federal income tax purposes as otherwise permitted generally under the Worker, Homeownership, and Business Assistance Act of 2009 which was signed into law on November 6, 2009. As of December 31, 2010, we had deferred tax assets of $5.8 million after we recorded $0.5 million of valuation allowance based on management’s estimation of the likelihood of those deferred tax assets being realized. These and future deferred tax assets may be further reduced in the future if our estimates of future taxable income from our operations and tax planning strategies do not support the amount of the deferred tax asset. The amount of net operating loss carry-forwards realizable for income tax purposes potentially could be further reduced under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code by a significant offering and/or other sales of our capital securities. Our future success is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in highly competitive markets. The East Alabama banking markets in which we do business are highly competitive and our future growth and success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in these markets. We compete for loans, deposits and other financial services in our markets with other local, regional and national commercial banks, thrifts, credit unions, mortgage lenders, and securities and insurance brokerage firms. Many of our competitors offer products and services different from us, and have substantially greater resources, name recognition and market presence than we do, which benefits them in attracting business. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we are able to and have broader and more diverse customer and geographic bases to draw upon. The Dodd-Frank Act allows others to branch into our markets more easily from other states. Our success depends on local economic conditions where we operate. Our success depends on the general economic conditions in the geographic markets we serve in Alabama. The local economic conditions in our markets have a significant effect on our commercial, real estate and construction loans, the ability of borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. Adverse changes in the economic conditions of the Southeastern United States in general, or in one or more of our local markets could negatively affect our results of operations and our profitability. The oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico could negatively affect our local economies and property values in our coastal markets, which could have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations. In late April 2010, an oil drilling platform exploded and sank in the Gulf of Mexico off the coast of Louisiana. A sizeable oil spill resulted in the Gulf of Mexico and substantial oil continued to flow daily from the well until it was capped early in August 2010. Clean-up efforts are continuing, but the oil spill has affected and may continue to affect the coast of Alabama and Northwest Florida. The oil spill or future spills could have direct negative effects on tourist and vacation spending in the area, the condition of waterfront properties and adversely affect the rental income from and value of beachfront and coastal properties and numerous industries within our coastal market areas. Although the oil spill has not had a material adverse effect upon us, this or similar events, including hurricanes, tornados and other natural disasters, could have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition, results of operations and stock price. Our cost of funds may increase as a result of general economic conditions, interest rates, inflation and competitive pressures. The Federal Reserve has taken aggressive actions to reduce interest rates generally, and the federal government has approved large spending increases. Our cost of funds may increase as a result of general economic conditions, interest rates and competitive pressures, and potential inflation resulting from government deficit spending. Traditionally, we have obtained funds principally through local deposits and borrowings from other institutional lenders. Generally, we believe local deposits are a cheaper and more stable source of funds than borrowings because interest rates paid for local deposits are typically lower than interest rates charged for borrowings from other institutional lenders. See “Fiscal and Monetary Policy”. 19 Table of Contents The Federal Reserve has acknowledged the possibility of further recession and deflation. Should this occur, the financial services industry and our business could be adversely affected. The recovery of the U.S. economy continues to progress slowly; consumer confidence remains low, unemployment remains high at 9.4% for December 2010, and the housing market remains an important downside risk, with prices expected to fall through much of this year. Given the concerns about the U.S. economy, U.S. employers continue to approach hiring with caution, and as a result unemployment may continue at high levels. Furthermore, the Federal Open Market Committee communicated in its December 2010 statement that measures of underlying inflation have continued to trend downward. Monetary and fiscal policy measures, including the two-year extension of the existing federal personal income tax rates, may be insufficient to strengthen the recovery, return unemployment to lower levels, and promote long-term stability in the financial markets. Furthermore, a shift from fiscal stimulus efforts to fiscal restraint to reduce government deficits, which could adversely affect the global economy and cause instability in the financial markets. Various governments in Europe have announced budget reductions and/or austerity measures as a means to limit fiscal budget deficits as a result of the economic crisis. Additionally, many state and local governments in the U.S. have also implemented budget reductions. These factors could weaken the U.S. economic recovery. Such economic factors could affect us in a variety of substantial and unpredictable ways, as well as affect our borrowers’ ability and willingness to meet their repayment obligations. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition, liquidity and earnings. Our profitability and liquidity may be affected by changes in interest rates and economic conditions. Our profitability depends upon net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on assets, and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Net interest income will be adversely affected if market interest rates change such that the interest we pay on deposits and borrowings increases faster than the interest earned on loans and investments. Interest rates, and consequently our results of operations, are affected by general economic conditions (domestic and foreign) and fiscal and monetary policies. Monetary and fiscal policies may materially affect the level and direction of interest rates. From June 2004 to mid-2006, the Federal Reserve raised the federal funds rate from 1.0% to 5.25%. Since then, beginning in September 2007, the Federal Reserve decreased the federal funds rate by 100 basis points to 4.25% over the remainder of 2007, and has since reduced the target federal funds rate by an additional 400 basis points to zero to 25 basis points in December 2008. Decreases in interest rates generally increase the market values of fixed-rate, interest-bearing investments and loans held, and increase the values of loan sales and mortgage loan activities. However, the production of mortgages and other loans and the value of collateral securing our loans, are dependent on demand within the markets we serve, as well as interest rates. The levels of sales, as well as the values of real estate in our markets, have declined. Declining rates reflect efforts by the Federal Reserve to stimulate the economy, but may not be effective, and thus may negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition, liquidity and earnings. On February 18, 2010, the Federal Reserve raised the discount rate from 0.5% to 0.75%. Increases in interest rates generally decrease the market values of fixed-rate, interest-bearing investments and loans held and the production of mortgage and other loans and the value of collateral securing our loans, and therefore may adversely affect our liquidity and earnings. Liquidity risks could affect operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our funding sources include federal funds purchased, securities sold under repurchase agreements, core and non-core deposits, and short- and long-term debt. We are also members of the FHLB and the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, where we can obtain advances collateralized with eligible assets. We maintain a portfolio of securities that can be used as a source of liquidity. There are other sources of liquidity available to the Company or the Bank should they be needed, including our ability to acquire additional non-core deposits. We may be able, depending upon market conditions, to issue and sell debt securities, and preferred or common securities in public or private transactions. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance or capitalize our activities or on terms which are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as further disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets, as well as the financial condition, liquidity and profitability of the financial institutions we deal with. 20 Table of Contents We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities and adversely affect our earnings. We and our subsidiaries are regulated by several regulators, including the Federal Reserve, the Alabama Superintendent, the SEC and the FDIC. Our success is affected by state and federal regulations affecting banks and bank holding companies, and the securities markets, and our costs of compliance could adversely affect our earnings. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors, not shareholders. The financial services industry also is subject to frequent legislative and regulatory changes and proposed changes, the effects of which cannot be predicted. Federal bank regulatory agencies and the Treasury, as well as the Congress and the President, are evaluating the regulation of banks, other financial services providers and the financial markets and such changes, if any, could require us to maintain more capital and liquidity, and restrict our activities, which could adversely affect our growth, profitability and financial condition. The Dodd-Frank Act substantially changes the regulation of the financial services industry and it could have a material adverse effect upon us. The recent Dodd-Frank Act provides wide-ranging changes in the way banks and financial services firms generally are regulated and is likely to affect the way we and our customers and counterparties do business with each other. Among other things, it requires increased capital and regulatory oversight for banks and their holding companies, establishes the FSOC, which may cause systemically important financial institutions to be regulated in ways similar to bank holding companies, changes the deposit insurance assessment system, changes responsibilities among regulators, establishes the new CFPB, makes various changes in the securities laws and corporate governance that affect public companies, including us, and also effects changes in the regulation and supervision of insurance companies, the credit rating agencies, and many other things that may affect our business and those with whom we do business. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires numerous studies and regulations to related to its implementation. While we are evaluating the effects of the Dodd-Frank Act, the Dodd-Frank Act, together with implementing the regulations that will be proposed, could have an adverse effect on our costs, and on our results of operation and financial condition, and its various effects cannot be predicted. Changes in accounting and tax rules applicable to banks could adversely affect our financial conditions and results of operations. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in us restating prior period financial statements. We are subject to internal control reporting requirements that increase compliance costs and failure to comply timely could adversely affect our reputation and the value of our securities. We are required to comply with various corporate governance and financial reporting requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules and regulations adopted by the SEC, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and Nasdaq. In particular, we are required to report on internal controls as part of our annual report on Form 10-K pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We expect to continue to spend significant amounts of time and money on compliance with these rules. Our failure to comply with these internal control rules may materially adversely affect our reputation, ability to obtain the necessary certifications to financial statements, and the value of our securities. We are required to maintain capital to meet regulatory requirements, and if we fail to maintain sufficient capital, our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations would be adversely affected. We and the Bank must meet regulatory capital requirements and maintain sufficient liquidity, including liquidity at the Company, as well as the Bank. If we fail to meet these capital and other regulatory requirements, our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Our failure to remain “well capitalized” and “well managed” for bank regulatory purposes could affect customer confidence, our ability to grow, our costs of funds and FDIC insurance, our ability to raise brokered deposits, our ability to pay dividends on common stock, our ability to make acquisitions, and we would no longer meet the requirements for becoming a financial holding company. 21 Table of Contents The Dodd-Frank Act restricts our future issuance of trust preferred securities and cumulative preferred securities as eligible Tier 1 risk-based capital for purposes of the regulatory capital guidelines for bank holding companies. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, while banks and thrift holding companies with assets of less than $15 billion as of December 31, 2009 will be permitted to include trust preferred securities that were issued before May 19, 2010 as Tier 1 capital, only bank holding companies with assets of less than $500 million will be permitted to continue to issue trust preferred securities and have them count as Tier 1 capital. Accordingly, should we determine it is advisable, or should our regulators require us, based upon new capital or liquidity regulations or otherwise, to raise additional Tier 1 risk-based capital, we would not be able to issue additional trust preferred securities, and would instead have to issue preferred stock or common equity. To the extent we issue new equity, it could result in dilution to our shareholders. To the extent we issue preferred stock, dividends on the preferred stock, unlike distributions paid on trust preferred securities, would not be tax deductible. We may need to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed or on favorable terms. We anticipate that our current capital resources will satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We may, however, need to raise additional capital to support our growth or currently unanticipated losses, or to meet the needs of our communities, resulting from failures or cutbacks by our competitors, and new capital rules being considered. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend, among other things, on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are currently disrupted and limited by events outside our control, and on our financial performance. If we cannot raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be limited. Future acquisitions and expansion activities may disrupt our business, dilute shareholder value and adversely affect our operating results. We regularly evaluate potential acquisitions and expansion opportunities. To the extent that we grow through acquisitions, we cannot assure you that we will be able to adequately or profitably manage this growth. Acquiring other banks, branches, or businesses, as well as other geographic and product expansion activities, involve various risks including: • risks of unknown or contingent liabilities; • unanticipated costs and delays; • risks that acquired new businesses will not perform consistent with our growth and profitability expectations; • risks of entering new markets or product areas where we have limited experience; • risks that growth will strain our infrastructure, staff, internal controls and management, which may require additional personnel, time and expenditures; • exposure to potential asset quality issues with acquired institutions; • difficulties, expenses and delays of integrating the operations and personnel of acquired institutions; • potential disruptions to our business; • possible loss of key employees and customers of acquired institutions; • potential short-term decreases in profitability; and • diversion of our management’s time and attention from our existing operations and business. We may engage in FDIC-assisted transactions, which could present additional risks to our business. We may have opportunities to acquire the assets and liabilities of failed banks in FDIC-assisted transactions, which present the risks of acquisitions, although generally, as well as some risks specific to these transactions. Although these FDIC-assisted transactions typically provide for FDIC assistance to an acquiror to mitigate certain risks, which may include loss-sharing, where the FDIC absorbs most losses on covered assets and provides some indemnity, we would be subject to many of the same risks we would face in acquiring another bank in a negotiated transaction, without FDIC assistance, including risks associated with pricing such transactions, the risks of loss of deposits and maintaining customer relationships and failure to realize the anticipated acquisition benefits in the amounts and within the timeframes we expect. 22 Table of Contents In addition, because these acquisitions provide for limited diligence and negotiation of terms, these transactions may require additional resources and time, servicing acquired problem loans and costs related to integration of personnel and operating systems, the establishment of processes to service acquired assets, require us to raise additional capital, which may be dilutive to our existing shareholders. If we are unable to manage these risks, FDIC-assisted acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Attractive acquisition opportunities may not be available to us in the future. While we seek continued organic growth, we also may consider the acquisition of other businesses. We expect that other banking and financial companies, many of which have significantly greater resources, will compete with us to acquire financial services businesses. This competition could increase prices for potential acquisitions that we believe are attractive. Also, acquisitions are subject to various regulatory approvals. If we fail to receive the appropriate regulatory approvals, we will not be able to consummate an acquisition that we believe is in our best interests. Among other things, our regulators consider our capital, liquidity, profitability, regulatory compliance and levels of goodwill and intangibles when considering acquisition and expansion proposals. Any acquisition could be dilutive to our earnings and shareholders’ equity per share of our common stock. Technological changes affect our business, and we may have fewer resources than many competitors to invest in technological improvements. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to serving clients better, the effective use of technology may increase efficiency and may enable financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to use technology to provide products and services that provide convenience to customers and to create additional efficiencies in operations. We may need to make significant additional capital investments in technology in the future, and we may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services. Many competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism or other external events could have significant effects on our business. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism or other external events could have a significant effect on our ability to conduct business. Such events could affect the stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause us to incur additional expenses. Although management has established disaster recovery policies and procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to continue to pay dividends to shareholders in the future is subject to profitability, capital, liquidity and regulatory requirements and these limitations may prevent us from paying dividends in the future. Cash available to pay dividends to our shareholders is derived primarily from dividends paid to the Company by the Bank. The ability of the Bank to pay dividends, as well as our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders, will continue to be subject to and limited by the results of operations of our subsidiaries and our need to maintain appropriate liquidity and capital at all levels of our business consistent with regulatory requirements and the needs of our businesses. See “Supervision and Regulation”. Our common stock is not traded in large volumes. Although our common stock is listed for trading in the Nasdaq Global Market, the trading volume in our common stock is less than that of other larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time. This also depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Given the lower trading volume of our common stock, significant sales of our common stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause our stock price to fall. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 23 Table of Contents 